
Proceedings of the Board of Regents


The University of Michigan


July 1997 - June 1998




JULY MEETING, 1997


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, July 17, 1997
The Regents convened at 1:40 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McFee,
McGowan, Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Interim Executive Vice President Matthews, Vice President Harrison, Vice President
Hartford, Acting Vice President Neidhardt, Chancellor Renick, and Secretary
Palmer. Vice President Kinnear and Chancellor Nelms were absent. Provost
Machen arrived at about 3:10 p.m.; Vice Chancellor Dorothy Russell
attended in Chancellor Nelms' stead.
Appointment of Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic
Affairs
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and announced his
recommendation for the appointment of Nancy Cantor, dean of the Horace
H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, as provost and executive vice president for academic affairs.
President Bollinger noted that after Provost Machen announced his
intention to step down from the position of provost, he had appointed a
committee to search for his replacement, with himself as chair. The committee conducted a national search and interviewed several candidates, and
came to the "clear conclusion" that Dean Cantor was "really the right person
for this position at this particular moment."
He observed that during the search process, a feeling of deep respect for
Dean Cantor had been expressed by all sectors of the University of Michigan
community, including staff, faculty, students, and alumni. He then introduced
Dean Cantor to the assembly.
Regent McGowan moved approval of Dean Nancy Cantor as provost and
executive vice president for academic affairs. Regent Deitch seconded the
motion. Several other Regents expressed their enthusiastic support for the
recommendation. The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved
unanimously. There followed a round of applause, after which Dean Cantor
briefly addressed the Board. She expressed how honored she was by the
appointment, appreciation to Provost Machen for his mentoring of her, and
enthusiasm for the prospect of working with President Bollinger and the
Board of Regents.
1997-98 Department of Athletics Budget
President Bollinger called on Mr. Joe Roberson, Director of Athletics, to
present the 1997-98 budget for the Department of Athletics. Mr. Roberson
distributed a handout and gave a corresponding slide presentation. He noted




July Meeting, 1997


that in 1996-97 there were 16 percent more student athletes than in the
previous year, the NCAA graduation rate was 71 percent, and that the
University had won seven conference champions.
Regarding the issue of gender equity, Mr. Roberson noted that it
involves more than issues of proportionality and scholarship opportunities.
Gender equity also is concerned with the broader range of services that
indicate that the genders are treated equally in all aspects of their athletic
competition. He noted that in a recent review by the NCAA, the University
had rated very highly in all of these areas, as well as in the areas of proportionality and gender equity. There are currently 11 men's sports and 12
women's sports, and the department has met totally the NCAA scholarship
limits for men and women.
Regarding the FY1998 revenue budget, Mr. Roberson noted that football
game admissions account for 39 percent of department's budget, while licensing royalties account for 12 percent, post-season revenues account for 9
percent, and TV/Radio revenue account for 10 percent. These figures are
virtually unchanged from the previous year.
Regent Power requested a breakdown of the TV and radio revenue both by
medium and by sport. Mr. Roberson said he would provide that information.
Mr. Roberson noted that the department's total revenue is $39,878,000.
The Regents asked for a breakdown of the amount of revenue from sports
admissions other than football. There was also a discussion about how
television revenue from football is derived, with Mr. Roberson noting that it
comes in the form of revenue sharing through the Big Ten. Michigan's share
of television revenue last year was about $2.8 million, out of a total Big Ten
television revenue of about $36 million. He pointed out that this discussion
highlights the issue of what conferences are and the effect of television on
conferences and on the individual schools within conferences. Noting that
$2.8 million does not represent a very large share of Michigan's athletic
department budget, Regent Power asked how much money the University of
Notre Dame receives from its television contract. He also asked to have the
Big Ten submit its economic model of the media environment over the
medium term and its strategy with respect to the conference and individual
members of it within that environment.  Mr. Roberson said he would
attempt to obtain that information.
In response to a question from Regent Newman, Mr. Roberson explained
how the Bowl Alliance operates. He noted that under this system, certain
conference champions, as well as two at-large bids based on ranking, are
guaranteed an opportunity to go to one of four bowl games. The bowls take
turns getting first choice of teams to play in their bowls.
Regent Power observed that he was asking these questions because the
intersection of big-time athletics and universities is becoming more and more
problematic, and that very large flows of money going into conferences are
driving the contradictions between universities and big-time sports. He believes


2




July Meeting, 1997


that the point is being reached where the conflicts between academics and
athletics will become ever sharper. Mr. Roberson agreed, noting that another
way of stating the problem is to ask the question of whether the University is
in the entertainment business or education business.
There then followed a discussion of graduation rates among University
of Michigan athletes. Mr. Roberson reported that the most recent NCAA
figure is 71 percent for all scholarship athletes. Within this group, the rate is
higher for women than for men, and lower for football and basketball players
than for other male athletes (38 percent for football and 33 percent for
basketball). However, these figures include 2 students on the basketball
team who transferred, and a third who transferred and graduated from
another institution. NCAA figures are based only on students who start at
Michigan but do not receive degrees from Michigan, and do not take into
account those who transfer to other schools, become professional athletes, or
receive degrees beyond the six-year time frame used by the NCAA.
Regent Deitch asked for the graduation rates of athletes who remain at
Michigan and don't transfer, noting that the University is primarily an
educational institution. Mr. Roberson said that he would provide that data.
Regent Newman asked about the status within the NCAA of proposals
whereby all basketball and football players would be ineligible to play their
freshmen year. Mr. Roberson observed that although he is personally in
favor of this proposal, it has been under discussion for years and is unlikely
to ever pass. If an individual institution such as Michigan were to decide to
implement such a policy, it would not only encounter tremendous pressure
from constituent groups, but would be at a competitive disadvantage against
other institutions who do not follow such a policy. The only way such a
system could work is if a large number of institutions subscribed to it, and
that is unlikely to happen.
Regarding expenditures, Mr. Roberson noted that the salaries/wages/
fringe benefits category decreased slightly, while facilities expenditures
increased somewhat. Regent Deitch asked for a breakdown in the salaries
category between the proportion spent on people directly involved in athletics
programs (e.g., coaches, trainers, etc.) and other staff.
In the Department of Recreational Sports, Mr. Roberson noted that 22
percent of the revenue is derived from the General Fund, 12 percent from
student fees, and 66 percent is generated by the department. He observed
that the University's recreational sports department may be the most used
recreational/intramural sports department in the country, used by about 85
percent of students.
Mr. Roberson concluded the presentation with a display of photographs
of various facilities operated by the athletic department. He pointed out that
about $9 million worth of renovations is needed at Crisler Arena.


3




July Meeting, 1997


In response to a question from Regent McGowan about what he would
like to see happen in terms of gender equity in scholarships, Mr. Roberson
noted that last year, the NCAA added 14 scholarship opportunities to women's
sports. This not only increases the proportion of women's scholarships, but
also the opportunities for women to participate in sports in a meaningful
way. He observed that women's sports do not have as many walk-on participants as do men's sports, but providing increased scholarship activities can
help negate this.
University of Michigan Health System's Clinical Delivery System
Operating Budget
President Bollinger noted that one small portion of the health system's
operating budget involves proposed changes in the University's M-Care HMO
and other HMO health care benefits offered to University employees. He
recommended that the Regents not act on the portion of the budget involving
these benefit changes for several weeks, to allow for further consultation
with members of the University.
It was clarified that the benefits in question would apply to all University
employees, not only those who work at the health system, and that if it was
decided ultimately to recommend the proposed changed to the Board, a
special meeting would be called in August for that purpose.
President Bollinger called on Mr. Larry Warren, interim executive director
of the University of Michigan Health System, to present the proposed
FY1998 Clinical Delivery System (CDS) operating budget.
Mr. Warren observed that with the adoption of this budget, the CDS
would continue to make improvements in cost per case and in its other financial objectives. In addition, the work force will be stabilized, which will allow
the CDS to best address the needs of patients, families, and visitors. He
reported that the CDS had reframed its mission, vision, and values statement
so that all staff would have a clear understanding about the leadership's
priorities for the system. The Faculty Group Practice board has also set
expectations in specific areas such as waiting time in clinics; and they and
the leadership have set standards against which they will measure themselves
over time. He also pointed out that the new executive vice president would be
inheriting a healthy health system.
Mr. Warren reviewed the health system's responses to the changing
health care environment, noting that in 1985 the overhead was 55 percent of
the total workforce, and as of 1997 it had been reduced to 35 percent. In the
eleven-year period from 1985-96, the system had reduced its expenses by
$150 million, and last year it set a goal of reducing another $200 million over
a three-year period. Mr. Warren noted that the health system had set a
standard for productivity comparable to that of the best academic medical
centers in the country.


4




July Meeting, 1997


Mr. Warren said that most FY1997 budget objectives had been achieved,
and that the health system had come in under budget in managing expenses.
This resulted in a gain from operations, even though revenues were less than
had been budgeted because the length of stay had been reduced by a greater
amount than had been anticipated. Due to the gain in operations, the staff
would benefit directly through the health system's gainsharing program.
Mr. Warren noted that the FY1998 budget assumptions include
planning for only one budget year, reduced length of stay and admissions
with corresponding growth in clinic visits, a self-funded competitive salary
program, an increase in managed care market penetration, no room rate
increase, and a $45.8 million cost effectiveness program. He commented that
a reduction of an additional 300 positions is required for the health system to
be in the best competitive position it can be. To help achieve that goal, it has
instituted an early retirement incentive program. The intent is to have no
layoffs.
In addition to the retirement incentive, another component of the cost
effectiveness program is a proposal to offer M-Care HMO health care coverage
at no premium charge to University employees. As noted earlier, University
employees would have an opportunity to comment on this proposal before it
is initiated. For FY1998, this proposal would save $2 million, or $4 million
on an annualized basis.
The FY1998 budget calls for $912,212,000 in total operating revenue
and an equal amount in operating expenses.
Regent Power commented that the past year's health system performance
has been very gratifying. Mr. Warren acknowledged the contributions of Mr.
David Southwell, the health system's chief financial officer, and noted that
he will be leaving to assume a new position in Iowa.
1997-98 Operating Budgets and Student Fee Rates, All Three Campuses
President Bollinger called on Provost Machen, who noted that the
fundamental budget objectives are unchanged from previous years: to
maintain and enhance the quality of instructional and research programs;
increase the quality of the undergraduate educational experience; maintain
and enhance access for Michigan undergraduates; and continue to pursue
racial and gender diversity.
He noted that this is the first year the budget was built utilizing the
concept of value centered management (VCM) and reviewed the basic tenets
of that system. He described cost containment and cost reduction efforts
that have occurred in recent years, including reallocating a portion of the
General Fund budget every year, institution of Total Quality Management
("M-Quality"), and re-examination and re-engineering of business processes.
A major goal this year, he noted, has been to reduce the cost of the central
administrative units, while enhancing the resources available to the
academic units. In the General Fund budget, a specific process has been


5




July Meeting, 1997


developed that should lead to a significant reduction in the University's
overall administrative costs.
Provost Machen reported that three parameters were used in the budget
planning process: low tuition and fee increases for both resident and nonresident undergraduates; no increase in the base budget allocations of central
administrative units; and no across-the-board increase in the provost's
allocations to the academic units. He then displayed a table detailing the
recommended General Fund budget broken down by unit, noting that the
state appropriation increase will be 4.18 percent. The average of proposed
undergraduate and graduate/professional school tuition and fee increases will
be 3.44 percent, while the infrastructure maintenance fee is slated to increase
by 9.56 percent, and indirect cost recovery is budgeted to increase by 3.73
percent. The overall increase in General Fund revenue will be 3.94 percent,
while overall expenditures will increase by an equal amount, as described in
the Regents Communication.
Provost Machen announced that the recommended student fee rate
increase for 1997-98 is 2.9 percent for lower and upper division resident and
nonresident undergraduates, with differential increases for specific graduate
programs that reflect special market or cost factors.
Regent McGowan inquired about the budget category of "new presidential
programs." Provost Machen responded that due to the size of the state
appropriation and the decision to freeze administrative costs, he was able to
identify $4 million for use by the president. President Bollinger said these
funds would be used generally for support of academic programs, faculty
salaries, and retaining and recruiting faculty. He also noted that there are
some subject areas that need attention, and that funds will be needed to
accomplish the kinds of improvements that he and the provost believe are
important. The principle purpose of the fund is to stimulate academic
achievement.
Regent Newman noted that the budget for the office of the executive
vice president and chief financial officer remains the same in this budget,
and she expressed the hope that this figure can be reduced next year.
Regent Power observed that this budget is significant because it is the
first to be brought forward under VCM. He noted that the presentation
clearly outlined how VCM is working, and that he appreciated the distinction
between VCM as a decision-making environment and the General Fund as an
accounting environment. Regent Power also pointed out that this budget is
the first to have as a specific policy objective and as a budget reality to lower
the costs of central administration by shifting resources from administrative
to academic activities.
President Bollinger observed that the costs of higher education are of
great concern to the public, even though he personally believes that public
opinion on this issue is exaggerated. However, it is incumbent upon the
University of Michigan as a public institution to be attentive to the public


6




July Meeting, 1997


concerns. He also said that it is also important to realize that a new budgeting
structure like VCM also requires a lot of close attention to make sure that
what is valued at the University is not lost.
President Bollinger recognized the efforts of Provost Machen in implementing VCM, noting that it was not easy and that it was done as skillfully
as it could possibly have been done. He also noted that a lot of progress has been
made in working with the state legislature, with the help of Associate Vice
President Cynthia Wilbanks and other members of Vice President Harrison's
staff.
Regent Deitch commented that he believes the budget is moving in the
right direction. He said he has always appreciated the University's accessibility, and that college expenses are significant for families, even though in
the larger scheme of things, the cost might be considered a bargain. Therefore,
the modest budget increase and the shifting of resources represent a beginning
step in making a statement about the University's priorities. He noted that
this is an important budget that would be looked at historically as a
watershed.
1997-98 UM-Dearborn General Fund Budget and Student Fee Rates
Chancellor Renick reported that the proposed overall increase in tuition
and fees for the Dearborn campus is 2.9 percent. This represents an increase
in faculty positions, a modest salary program, and financial aid support.
1997-98 University Health Service Fee
Vice President Hartford announced a proposed increase of $2.50 per
student per term (2.38 percent) for the 1997-98 University Health Service
fee. The majority of the increase will be used to fund a merit-based salary
program for health service staff.
There followed a 15-minute break, after which the meeting reconvened
to hear public comments at 4:00 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people, on the topics
indicated: Marcia Federbush, citizen, on gender equity in athletics; Mel Larson,
citizen, on an agreement of cooperation between the City of Ann Arbor and
the University of Michigan; and Elaine Sims, co-chair, Commission for Women,
on the UMHS paid time off program.
The business meeting then continued, at 4:17 p.m.
University of Michigan Health System's Clinical Delivery System
Operating Budget
Regent McGowan moved to approve the FY1998 UMHS Clinical Delivery
System's Operating Budget, with the caveat that the portion of the budget


7




July Meeting, 1997


which pertains to M-Care preference, as it has been described today, will be
considered at a subsequent meeting. Regent McFee seconded the motion.
In response to Regent Newman's question about the impact of the
M-Care preference initiative on the overall budget, President Bollinger stated
that it would lead to a revenue increase of $1 million this year and $2 million
in subsequent years, depending on how many people take advantage of the
proposal.
Regent Newman stated that she does not believe this decision should be
delayed, because she feels strongly that the UMHS budget, including the
M-Care preference initiative, should be adopted. There followed a discussion
about the impact of the motion on the rest of the UMHS budget. Regent
Newman emphasized that she did not want to approve a health system
budget that is not balanced, and she believes strongly in the concept of steering University employees toward the University's own health system.
Regent Power observed that the Regents always try to allow people time to
comment on significant items prior to voting on them. He noted that this is
a significant proposal involving fringe benefits that will affect a lot of people,
and until now it has been considered only in the context of the medical center,
rather than the entire University. The motion will provide the community
an opportunity to comment on what is to them a significant issue.
Regent McGowan summarized that the recommendation from the health
system is to provide a certain amount of revenue for its budget. It is now up
to the central administration to determine whether or not to bring to the
Regents that element of the budget. Because this idea has not been discussed
outside of the hospital community, it will come as a surprise to the rest of
the University. The motion is therefore an attempt to adjust the process in
order to allow the University community to comment on the proposal.
President Bollinger concurred, noting that since the health system
budget was put together, it has been brought to his attention that there are
concerns about the process used for this particular proposal because it will
affect staff benefits. It is possible that the administration may decide not to
recommend it at this time.
Regent McFee suggested that there be a time certain when the proposal
will be brought back for a discussion and/or vote. Regent Maynard concurred.
Regent Deitch stated that based on the information they now have,
many of the Regents believe this is a good idea, and that if the vote were to
be taken today, he would vote to approve the M-Care preference initiative.
However, because of the big impact such a decision would have, and because
he values discussion and input, he could possibly be convinced to change his
mind if confronted with a compelling argument. He requested that the
Regents reconvene, and if the administration decides not to recommend it,
he would like the opportunity to weigh that point of view. He observed that
the proposal highlights the fact that this is one institution with limited


8




July Meeting, 1997


resources, and that it represents an opportunity to direct dollars into other
areas and help the hospital, thereby helping the whole institution.
It was noted that in order to have sufficient lead time to prepare materials regarding open enrollment in the benefits program, a decision would have
to be made by August 15.
Regent Power concurred that the administration ought to bring forward
at a special meeting no later than August 15 a recommendation either for or
against the proposal. There followed a discussion about whether the proposal
should be brought forward if the administration ultimately decides not to
recommend it after receiving public comment. Regent Deitch suggested that
if the decision is not to recommend the proposal, then a vote should be taken
on a replacement for the revenue that it would have generated. Therefore, a
decision one way or the other should be made at a meeting in August.
Regent Taylor commented that the president understands the sense of
the Board, that the proposal needs to be brought back in time to be implemented, and that a vote will be taken either for or against at a meeting in
August. Regent McGowan responded that she believes that would be an unfortunate scenario.
Regent Power summarized that the UMHS budget would be voted on
today, minus the portion relating to M-Care preference, with the understanding that by August 15th, the Regents would be asked to vote either to
approve the M-Care preference or to vote on another means of balancing the
budget.
Regent McGowan withdrew her original motion, and Regent Deitch
moved a substitute motion, to adopt the FY1998 UMHS Clinical Delivery
System's Operating Budget with the caveat that by August 15 the Regents
convene by a duly called conference telephone call, for a meeting to act upon
a recommendation from the president with regard to M-Care preference or
an alternative, which in the president's judgment would be an appropriate
revenue substitute for M-Care preference if it is not so recommended.
Regent Power seconded the motion.
There followed a discussion about whether the vote in August would be
on the entire CDS budget, or on only the portion that pertains to M-Care
preference. Regent McFee suggested that the vote be tabled until the following morning. Regent McGowan pointed out that she would be absent then.
Regent McFee stated that she would like to find a way to resolve the
issue of a balanced budget, and deferring the vote until the next day seemed
to be the logical way to do this. Regent McFee moved to table the vote on
Regent Deitch's motion until the following day. Regent Newman seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously.


9




July Meeting, 1997


1997-98 University Health Service Fee
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved an increase in the 1997-98 University Health
Service Fee of $2.50 per student per term.
FY 1997-98 Ann Arbor General Fund Operating Budget
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved the Ann Arbor Campus General Fund
Operating Budget for FY 1997-98.
UM Ann Arbor Student Fee Rates for 1997-98
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the recommended student fee rates for 1997-98, as
described in the Regents Communication.
UM-Dearborn 1997-98 General Fund Budget
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the 1997-98 General Fund Budget.
UM-Dearborn 1997-98 Student Fee Rates
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved the 1997-98 student fee rates, as described in the
Regents Communication.
Resolution in Honor of J. Bernard Machen
Regent Horning read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan commend and express
their deepest appreciation to J. Bernard Machen as he completes his
two-year term as provost and executive vice president for academic
affairs on August 31, 1997.
Provost Machen assumed the University's top academic post at a
crucial time of transition for the University. He quickly mastered the
intricacies of the demanding job of provost, and he provided invaluable guidance and counsel to the Regents during the presidential
search. Accessible, forthright, resolute, and precise in carrying out his
duties, Provost Machen earned the admiration and respect of faculty
and staff, deans, and the Regents. He opened discourse with faculty
on a number of important issues, including the faculty grievance
process, and oversaw implementation of Value Centered Management,
a major change in the University's budgeting system.
Provost Machen came to the University of Michigan as dean of
the School of Dentistry in 1989. Prior to that, he held teaching and
administrative posts at several universities and served as a major in


10




July Meeting, 1997


the U.S. Army Dental Corps. He received his D.D.S. degree from St.
Louis University and earned his M.S. degree in pedodontics and his
Ph.D. degree in educational psychology, both from the University of
Iowa.
Provost Machen's wife, Chris, has been a strong supporter of the
University and of the work of the provost's office. Always gracious, she
has encouraged collegiality by frequently hosting social events to bring
together faculty and spouses from across the University. She also has
been an enthusiastic supporter of University events, regularly attending official functions, athletic contests, and student-sponsored
programs.
With admiration and deep gratitude for their numerous contributions to the University, and particularly for their leadership during a
time of transition, the Regents extend their best wishes and appreciation to Bernie and Chris Machen.
Following a round of applause, Provost Machen thanked the Regents
and said how much he had enjoyed his tenure as provost. There followed a
standing ovation.
President's House Renovation
Regent Power made the following motion:
The President's House was built in 1840 and is listed on the National
Register of Historic Places. It is the oldest building on campus and an
important part of the history of the University. Originally built as a professor's house, the President's House symbolizes the long and continuous
academic tradition that is so close to the heart of this institution.
When he became president in February, President Bollinger
announced his intention to make the President's House more visible as a
center of the intellectual life of the University, and indeed, in these first six
months has hosted breakfasts, lunches, and dinners as well as informal
events there. He has expressed his intention to hold even more events there,
and from time to time, to host the most distinguished visitors to the University as guests in his house.
To that end, plans have been developed to refurbish and renovate
substantial parts of the second and third floors of the home. Although refurbishment projects of this size do not normally require Regental approval, the
Regents wish to go on record to applaud President Bollinger for his initiative
in bringing the house more to the center of University life and to authorize
the use of up to $250,000 from undesignated gifts to the University for this
purpose.
Regent McGowan seconded the motion. Regent Maynard expressed
support for the motion, noting that the house is a showcase and the president is using it as it should be used.


11




July Meeting, 1997


Regent Power recalled that the first floor of the President's House was
last renovated when President Duderstadt took office, with approval given at
a public meeting, and that it is now appropriate to repeat this process for
renovations to the second and third floors.
In response to a question from Regent Newman about undesignated
gifts, Executive Vice President Matthews stated that these are bequests that
are made with no strings, and that either the principal or interest can be
used for any purpose at all. Regent Newman expressed the view that principal not be used, as she did not believe that donors necessarily may have
expected their donations to be used for furnishings for a home.
Regent Taylor expressed strong disagreement, noting that he did not
believe that it was proper to speculate on what donors mean when they
direct that their gifts be used for unspecified and unrestricted purposes; he
believes their intentions should be taken at face value.
Regent Deitch noted that in the context of an overall budget that
exceeds $2 billion, amounts of $250,000 or $1 million could be viewed as a
"slip of the pencil;" however, as stewards of these funds, the Regents are
responsible for accounting for them. He believes this is an appropriate use of
University funds, given that the president is the leader of the institution, the
house is in the center of the campus, and the president has pledged to have it
serve as a home and a place that represents the hospitality of the University
and the center of its intellectual life. Therefore, appropriately outfitting it is
an appropriate use of $250,000, and whether the funds used come from interest or principal is irrelevant.
Regent Horning commented that he has talked to several individuals
who have been entertained recently in the house and had reported a "warm
feeling again in Ann Arbor and the University that they hadn't felt recently."
He commended the president for using the house in this way and expressed
support for the motion.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Power made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202 and 1996 PA 464, I move that the Board of Regents meet
in closed session on July 17, 1997, in the Regents' Room, for the
purpose of considering the purchase or lease of real property.
Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then continued in executive session, beginning at 5:05 p.m.


12




July Meeting, 1997


Friday, July 18, 1997
The Regents met at 9:30 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McFee,
Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Provost Machen, Interim
Executive Vice President Matthews, Vice President Harrison, Vice President
Hartford, Acting Vice President Neidhardt, Chancellor Nelms, Chancellor
Renick, and Secretary Palmer. Regent McGowan and Vice President
Kinnear were absent.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and called on Chancellor
Nelms.
UM-Flint 1997-98 General Fund Budget and Tuition and Fee Rates
Chancellor Nelms reviewed the budget proposal, noting that it had
three objectives: to maintain quality and affordability for students; to
provide greater access to technology for students, faculty, and staff; and to
enhance the retention and success of students. The budget represents the
smallest tuition and fee increase on the Flint campus since 1985-86 (about
$47.00 per semester for tuition and $15.70 in fee increases for lower division
undergraduate students). He noted that much of the fee increase would be
used directly to support student activities related to their majors. The technology fee is to be used exclusively for the acquisition of computer hardware and
software to support students.
Regent Maynard moved approval of the 1997-98 UM-Flint General Fund
budget. Regent Horning seconded the motion.
In response to a question from Regent Newman about the percentage
increases, Chancellor Nelms noted that for lower division undergraduate
students, the tuition increase amounts to 2.9 percent and the combined
tuition and fee increase is 3.6 percent. The combined tuition and fee
increase for upper division undergraduate students is slightly greater than
4.0 percent.
There being no further discussion, the vote was then taken on the
General Fund budget, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Regent Maynard moved approval of the proposed UM-Flint tuition and
fee rates for 1997-98, as described in the Regents Communication. Regent
Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
University of Michigan Health System's Clinical Delivery System
Operating Budget
Regent Power moved to approve the FY1998 UMHS Clinical Delivery
System's Operating Budget, with the caveat that the portion of the budget
which pertains to M-Care preference, as it has been described, will be considered at a subsequent meeting. If M-Care preference is eliminated, the


13




July Meeting, 1997


administration will propose to the Regents a plan for balancing the UMHS
budget. Regent Deitch supported the motion.
It was determined that the meeting would have to be held within about
two weeks, and it was confirmed that the meeting could be in the form of a
conference call. Vice President Harrison said that if the meeting were held
by conference call, it would be made accessible to the press and public.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
1997-98 Revenue and Expenditure Budgets
Regent Power moved approval of the revenue and expenditure operating
budgets for 1997-98, with the caveat that the portion of the budget which
pertains to M-Care preference in the UMHS Clinical Delivery System's
Operating budget will be considered at a subsequent meeting. Regent McFee
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted minutes of the June 1997 meeting.
Reports. Executive Vice President Matthews submitted Reports of
Investments, Plant Extension, Litigation, Human Resources and Affirmative
Action, and Non-Competitive Purchases over $5,000 from Single Sources
from April 1 through June 30, 1997.
Vice President Neidhardt submitted Reports of Projects Established and
Summaries of Current Research and Sponsored Projects for June 1997. He
noted that the technology transfer program has been very successful. Based
on current licensing contracts and equity holdings, the University's revenues
from technology transfer during this fiscal year are expected to be nearly
triple that of last year's, exceeding $6 million. Regent Power complimented
Vice President Neidhardt on a very encouraging report, noting that the
Regents had spent a lot of time modifying technology transfer policies.
Vice President Neidhardt reported on the activities of the Year of
Humanities and the Arts ("YoHA"), which will take place during the 1997-98
academic year.
Voluntary Support. The final report of fiscal-year gift receipts,
including the totals for the month of June, will be presented in the September meeting.
Personnel Actions. Provost Machen submitted a number of personnel
actions. President Bollinger noted that Ms. Chacona Johnson would be
joining his office as chief of staff, while also retaining her appointment in the
Office of the Vice President for Development.


14




July Meeting, 1997


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Coppola, Brian P., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Chemistry
Hell, Julia C., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures
Karni, Smadar, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics
Keane, Edward W., Jr., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Anthropology, July 1, 1997
Steinmetz, George P., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, without tenure
Tesar, Linda L., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Economics
Verdery, Katherine M., Ph.D., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Eric R. Wolf
Professor of Anthropology, five-year term
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Resnick, Paul J., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Information, three-year term, August 1, 1997
Turan, Mete H., Ph.D., Professor of Architecture, seven-year term
Umstadter, Donald P., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological
Sciences and Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
three year term
REAPPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
England, Anthony W., reappointed Associate Dean for Faculty Programs, Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies, one-year term, September 1, 1997
Franklin, Barry M., reappointed Chair, Department of Education, UM-Flint, three year term
Kachhal, Swatantra K., reappointed Chair, Department of Industrial and Manufacturing
Systems Engineering, UM-Dearborn, three year term
Kinnear, Thomas C., extension of appointment as Vice President for Development,
September 1, 1997
Kunkel, Steven L., reappointed Associate Dean for Interdisciplinary Programs and
Initiatives, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, one-year term,
September 1, 1997
Lavoie, Kathleen H., extension of appointment as Interim Dean, College of Arts and
Sciences, UM-Flint, 13 month term
McClain, Jackie R., reappointed Executive Director of Human Resources and Affirmative
Action, five-year term, February 15, 1997
McGraw, Rodney B., extension of appointment as Interim Dean, School of Management,
UM-Flint, 1-1/2 month term
Monterio, Anne W., reappointed Assistant Dean for Students, College of Engineering,
three-year term, September 1, 1997
Patterson, Willis C., reappointed Associate Dean, School of Music, one-year term
Samuels, Allen J., extension of appointment as Dean, School of Art and Design, one-year
term, July 1, 1998
Selig, Suzanne M., reappointed Coordinator, School of Health Professions and Studies,
UM-Flint, one year term
Stach, Robert W., reappointed Chair, Department of Chemistry, UM-Flint, three year term
Wall, Harriet M., extension of appointment as Interim Associate Dean, College of Arts and
Sciences, UM-Flint, one month term, July 9, 1997


15




July Meeting, 1997


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on September 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Alexander, Jeffrey A., Richard Carl Jelinek Professor of Health Services and Management and
Policy, also appointed Acting Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Public Health,
academic year 1997-98
Dickerson, Glenda, Professor of Theatre and Drama, with tenure, also appointed Associate
Dean, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, three year term
Kaul, Gautam, Professor of Finance, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean, School of
Business Administration, three year term
Koch, Larry W., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed
Acting Chair, Department of Sociology/Anthropology/Criminal Justice, UM-Flint,
summer term 1997
Larson, Ronald G., Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Professor
of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure, July 1, 1997
Lewis, Earl, from Senior Associate Dean, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
and Professor of History and Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Interim Dean, Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies, and Professor of History and Afroamerican and African Studies,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
McLaughlin, Renate, from Associate Provost, UM-Flint, to Interim Provost and Vice
Chancellor for Academic Affairs, UM-Flint, six month term, July 1, 1997
Mead, David W., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
without tenure, and Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, without tenure, also
appointed Associate Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without
tenure, July 1, 1997
Smith, Sherril A., Professor of Art, also appointed Interim Associate Dean for Graduate
Studies, School of Art and Design, one year term, July 1, 1997
Trautmann, Thomas R., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Professor of History,
with tenure, also appointed the Mary Fair Croushore Professor of Humanities and
Director, Institute for Humanities, three year term, July 1, 1997
Vaziri, Mojtaba, Associate Professor of Physics, UM-Flint, also appointed Chair, Department
of Physics and Engineering Science, UM-Flint, three year term, July 1, 1997
Wahr, Joyce A., Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, also appointed Assistant
Dean for Admissions and Financial Aid, Medical School
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Cherry, William A., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, research leave extended
Hanson, Robert D., Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, intergovernmental leave
extended, June 1, 1997-May 31, 1998
Kolars, Joseph C., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, personal leave
extended
Lewis, Donald J., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, duty off campus leave extended,
July 1, 1997-June 30, 1998
Pinch, Adela N., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's
Studies, with tenure, duty off campus leave extended, September 1-December 31, 1997
Taylor, Dorceta E., Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Assistant Professor of Environmental Sociology,
School of Natural Resources and Environment, personal leave extended


16




July Meeting, 1997


OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Bardakjian, Kevork B., from Associate Professor of Armenian Languages and Literatures,
with tenure, and the Marie Manoogian Associate Professor, Department of Slavic
Languages and Literatures, to Associate Professor of Armenian Languages and
Literatures, with tenure, and the Marie Manoogian Associate Professor, Department of
Near Eastern Studies
Cantor, Nancy E., from Dean, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, to Provost
and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs
Collings, Anthony C., the Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor of Journalism, eight month
term
D'Arms, John H., from the Gerald F. Else Professor of Classical Studies to the Gerald F. Else
Professor of Humanities, August 1, 1997
Deardorff, Alan V., Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure,
School of Public Policy, also appointed the John W. Sweetland Professor of
International Economics, one year term
Dutton, Jane E., from Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management and Corporate Strategy, with tenure, and William Russell Kelly Professor
of Business Administration, School of Business, Associate Professor of Psychology,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed the Jack D.
Sparks Whirlpool Corporation Research Professor of Business Administration, School
of Business Administration, two year term
Greden, John F., Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Psychiatry,
also appointed the Rachel Upjohn Professor of Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences,
five year term, July 18, 1997
Hind, Richard K., the T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, four
year term
Johnson, Chacona W., Associate Vice President for Development, also appointed Chief of
Staff to the President, July 21, 1997
MacCormack, Sabine G., from the Alice Freemen Palmer Professor of History, to the Mary
Ann and Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Professor for the Study of Human Understanding,
five year term
Muir, Dana M., Assistant Professor of Law, History, and Communication, also appointed the
Sanford R. Robertson Assistant Professor of Business Administration, one year term
Platz, Stephanie S., Assistant Professor of History, also appointed the Alex Manoogian
Assistant Professor of Modern Armenian History, three year term
Steinfeld, Zvi A., the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professor of Rabbinic Literature,
September 3, 1997- May 5, 1998
Toth, Arpa6d, the T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, four year
term
Tremper, Kevin K., Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Anesthesiology, also appointed the Robert B. Sweet Professor of Anesthesiology, five
year term, July 18, 1997
Interim appointment approval. The Regents authorized the president or the provost and executive vice president for academic affairs to make
such interim appointments and/or changes as may become necessary from
August 1-31, 1997, to complete the staffing for the fall term 1997.
Albion Walter Hewlett Endowed Professorship in Internal
Medicine. The Regents approved the establishment of the Albion Walter
Hewlett Endowed Professorship in Internal Medicine, effective July 18, 1997.
First Chicago NBD        Corporation Assistant or Associate Professorship in Business Administration. The Regents approved a change in


17




July Meeting, 1997


the name of the NBD Bancorp Assistant or Associate Professorship in
Business Administration to the First Chicago NBD Corporation Assistant or
Associate Professorship in Business Administration, effective August 1, 1997.
Frances E. VanVlack Professorship in Materials Science and
Engineering. The Regents approved the establishment of the Frances
VanVlack Professorship in Materials Science and Engineering, effective
August 1, 1997.
FranSois-Xavier Bagnoud Professorship in Aerospace Engineering.
The Regents approved the establishment of the Frangois-Xavier Bagnoud
Professorship in Aerospace Engineering, effective August 1, 1997.
J. Ira and Nicki Harris Professorship in Social Science. The
Regents approved the establishment of the J. Ira and Nicki Harris Professorship in Social Science, effective September 1, 1997.
James R. Mellor Professorship in Engineering. The Regents
approved the establishment of the James R. Mellor Professorship in Engineering, effective August 1, 1997.
William   Martel Collegiate Professorship in Radiology.         The
Regents approved the establishment of the William Martel Collegiate Professorship in Radiology, effective September 1, 1997.
Committee appointments. The following committee appointments
were submitted:
Michigan League Board of Governors
Oakley, Deborah J., retroactive appointment, May 1, 1997-April 30, 2000, vice Marina V. N.
Whitman, resigned
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Bates, Percy, reappointed July 1, 1997-June 30, 1999
Briggs, Dale E., term extended July 1-September 30, 1997
Weber, Walter J., Jr., term extended July 1-September 30, 1997
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Dechow, Patricia M., Ph.D., Lecturer in Business Administration, July 1, 1997
Muriel, Ana, Ph.D., Lecturer in Business Administration
School of Dentistry
Gailey, Noelle R., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1997
Lin, Brent P., D.M.D., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1997
Munshey, Gulafshan A., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1997
Veryser, Thomas J., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, June 1, 1997


18




July Meeting, 1997


School of Education
Moje, Elizabeth B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, July 1, 1997
Law School
Mann, Ronald J., J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, July 1, 1997
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Chen, Serena C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology
Cresti, Diana M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Linguistics
Grabiner, David J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Lemke, Douglas W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science, June 1, 1997
Lithgow-Bertelloni, Carolina R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Geological Sciences
McGee, Sean H., B.S., Lecturer I in Mathematics, July 1, 1997
Richards, Eliza C., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies, July 1, 1997
Sekaquaptewa, Denise J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology
Shishkoff, Serge, M.A., Lecturer II in Russian Pedagogy
Stixrude, Lars P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Geological Sciences
Zeleznik, W. Scott, M.A, Lecturer II in Spanish and Anthropology, Residential College
Medical School
Chavey, William E., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, June 16, 1997
DeBiose, David A., D.O., Clinical Instructor in Radiation Oncology, June 1, 1997
Gannett, David E., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Radiation Oncology, July 1, 1997
Gessner, Lynn M., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
July 28, 1997
Kercher, Marley L., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1997
Ladika, Joseph M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1997
Lee, Peter J., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Anesthesiology, July 1, 1997
Lipscomb, Michael K., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Surgery, July 1, 1997
Park, Stephen M., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
July 1, 1997
Shureiqi, Imad, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1997
Silbergleit, Robert, M.D., Lecturer in Emergency Surgery, July 1, 1997
Vander Woude, Amy C., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 21, 1997
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Frazee, Richard W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry
Friesen, Lauren D., Assistant Professor of Theatre
Gabel, Susan L., Ph.D., Lecturer in Education
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
School of Art and Design
Jacobsen, Carol S., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Art
Biophysics Research Division
Dunham, William R., from Distinguished Research Biophysicist to Distinguished Senior
Research Scientist
Matthews, Rowena G., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
School of Business Administration
Caproni, Paula J., from Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resc
Management to Lecturer in Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Managemer
July 1, 1997


19




July Meeting, 1997


College of Engineering
Ashton-Miller, James A., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Mechanical
Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Ervin, Robert D., from Research Scientist, Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
College of Engineering, and Research Scientist, University of Michigan Transportation
Research Institute, to Senior Research Scientist, Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics, College of Engineering, and Senior Research Scientist, University of
Michigan Transportation Research Institute
Institute of Gerontology
Achenbaum, W. Andrew, from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Ashton-Miller, James A., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Burke, David T., from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist
Carlson, Bruce M., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Faulkner, John A., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Foster, Norman L., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist
Fries, Brant E., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Gafni, Ari, from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Goldstein, Steven A., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Guan, Kunliang, from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist
Krause, Neal M., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Liang, Jersey, from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Miller, Richard A., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Schultz, Albert B., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Steel, Duncan G., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Supiano, Mark A., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist
Weissert, William G., Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Institute for Human Adjustment
Washington, Julie A., from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research
Scientist
Center for Human Growth and Development
Lozoff, Betsy, from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ceballo, Rosario, from Lecturer II to Assistant Professor of Psychology
Fulton, George A., from Research Scientist, Economics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Research Scientist, Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations, to Senior
Research Scientist, Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Senior
Research Scientist, Institute for Labor and Industrial Relations
Mattis, Jacqueline S., from Lecturer II to Assistant Professor of Psychology
Zimmerman, William IV, from Research Scientist, Center for Russian and East European
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Research Scientist, Center for
Political Studies, Institute for Social Research, to Senior Research Scientist, Center for
Russian and East European Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Senior Research Scientist, Center for Political Studies, Institute for Social Research
Medical School
Adams, Barbara S., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1997
Agranoff, Bernard W., from Research Scientist, Psychiatry, and Research Scientist, Mental
Health Research Institute, to Senior Research Scientist, Psychiatry, and Senior
Research Scientist, Mental Health Research Institute
Akil, Huda, from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Mental Health Research
Institute
Aldridge, J. Wayne, from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Neurology
Allen, Layman E., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Mental Health
Research Institute


20




July Meeting, 1997


Altschuler, Richard A., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist,
Otorhinolaryngology
Anderson, Robert M., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research
Scientist, Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education
Andrews, Philip C., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Biological
Chemistry
Benedict, Patrick E., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology,
July 1, 1997
Bitar, Khalil N., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases
Bledsoe, Sanford C., Jr., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research
Scientist, Kresge Hearing Research Institute
Bonadio, Jeffrey F., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Pathology
Burmeister, Margit, from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research
Scientist, Mental Health Research Institute
Carey, Thomas E., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Otorhinolaryngology
Chung, Kevin C., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 1, 1997
Fisher, Gary J., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Dermatology
Fisher, Stephen K., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Mental Health
Research Institute
Frey, Kirk A., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Mental Health Research Institute
Glover, Thomas W., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research
Scientist, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Goldman, Daniel J., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research
Scientist, Mental Health Research Institute
Grant, Robert J., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, July 1, 1997
Greden, John F., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Mental Health
Research Institute
Gruber, Stephen B., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, also appointed
Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, July 1, 1997
Gruppen, Larry D., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education
Hajra, Amiya K., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Mental Health
Research Institute
Juhasz, Tibor, from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Ophthalmology
Keep, Richard F., from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Surgery
Kilbourn, Michael R., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Internal Medicine
Koeppe, Robert A., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Internal Medicine
Koral, Kenneth F., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Internal Medicine
Kukor, Jerome J., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Microbiology and Immunology
Lindsay, Robert K., from Research Scientist, Psychiatry and Research Scientist, Mental
Health Research Institute, to Senior Research Scientist, Psychiatry, and Senior
Research Scientist, Mental Health Research Institute
Lomax, Margaret I., from Associate Research Scientist, Anatomy and Cell Biology, and
Associate Research Scientist, Kresge Hearing Research Institute, to Senior Associate
Research Scientist, Anatomy and Cell Biology, and Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Kresge Hearing Research Institute
Long, Michael W., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases
Marcelo, Cynthia L., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research
Scientist, Surgery
Meader-Woodruff, James H., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research
Scientist, Mental Health Research Institute
Moody, David B., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Kresge Hearing
Research Institute


21




July Meeting, 1997


Morrow, Thomas J., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research
Scientist, Neurology
Musch, David C., from Research Scientist, Ophthalmology, Medical School, and Associate
Research Scientist, Epidemiology, School of Public Health, to Senior Research
Scientist, Ophthalmology, Medical School, and Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Epidemiology, School of Public Health
Padamanabhan, Vasantha, from Research Scientist, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, and Research Scientist, Reproductive Sciences Program, to Senior
Research Scientist, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, and Senior
Research Scientist, Reproductive Sciences Program
Richards, Julia E., from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Ophthalmology
Rogers, W. Leslie, from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Internal Medicine
Seasholtz, Audrey F., from Associate Research Scientist, Mental Health Research Institute,
Medical School, and Associate Research Scientist, Reproductive Sciences Program, to
Senior Associate Research Scientist, Mental Health Research Institute, Medical School,
and Senior Associate Research Scientist, Reproductive Sciences Program
Smith, Yolanda R., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
July 1, 1997
Traynor, John R., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Pharmacology
Ueda, Tetsufumi, from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Mental Health
Research Institute
Uhler, Michael D., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Mental Health Research Institute
Vaz, Alfin, from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Biological Chemistry
Waller, Patricia F., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Psychiatry
Watson, Stanley J., Jr., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Mental Health
Research Institute
Wieland, Donald M., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Internal Medicine
Winger, Gail D., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Pharmacology
Young, Elizabeth A., from Associate Research Scientist, Mental Health Research Institute,
Medical School, and Associate Research Scientist, Reproductive Sciences Program, to
Senior Associate Research Scientist, Mental Health Research Institute, Medical School,
and Senior Associate Research Scientist, Reproductive Sciences Program
School of Public Health
Bookstein, Fred L., from Distinguished Research Scientist, Biostatistics, School of Public
Health, Distinguished Research Scientist, Institute for Gerontology, Distinguished
Research Scientist, Center for Human Growth and Development, and Distinguished
Research Scientist, Reproductive Sciences Program, to Distinguished Senior Research
Scientist, Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Distinguished Senior Research
Scientist, Institute for Gerontology, Distinguished Senior Research Scientist, Center
for Human Growth and Development, and Distinguished Senior Research Scientist,
Reproductive Sciences Program,
House, James S., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Epidemiology
Slope, Jean T., from Associate Research Scientist, Health Behavior and Health Education,
School of Public Health, Associate Research Scientist, Division of Kinesiology, and
Associate Research Scientist, University of Michigan Transportation Research
Institute, to Senior Associate Research Scientist, Health Behavior and Health
Education, School of Public Health, Senior Associate Research Scientist, Division of
Kinesiology, and Senior Associate Research Scientist, University of Michigan
Transportation Research Institute
Verbrugge, Lois M., from Distinguished Research Scientist, Center for Population Planning,
School of Public Health, and Distinguished Research Scientist, Institute of
Gerontology, to Distinguished Senior Research Scientist, Center for Population
Planning, School of Public Health, and Distinguished Senior Research Scientist,
Institute for Social Research


22




July Meeting, 1997


Institute for Social Research
Achen, Christopher H., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Center for
Political Studies
Akiyama, Hiroko S., from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research
Scientist, Survey Research Center
Alwin, Duane F., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center
Antonucci, Toni C., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center
Bachman, Jerald G., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center
Brown, Charles C., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center
Burnstein, Eugene, from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Research Center
for Group Dynamics
Cantor, Nancy E., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Research Center for
Group Dynamics
Corcoran, Mary E., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Survey Research Center
Cross, John G., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Survey Research Center
Curtin, Richard T., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Survey Research Center
Eccles, Jacquelynne S., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Research
Center for Group Dynamics
Featherman, David L., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Fricke, Thomas E., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Survey Research Center
Groves, Robert M., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center
Herzog, Anna R., from Research Scientist, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social
Research, and Research Scientist, Institute of Gerontology, to Senior Research
Scientist, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research, and Senior Research
Scientist, Institute of Gerontology
Hill, Daniel H., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Survey Research Center
Hill, Martha S., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Survey Research Center
Hofferth, Sandra L., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center
House, James S., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center
Huesmann, L. Rowell, from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Research Center
for Group Dynamics
Huth, Paul K., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Center for Political Studies
Inglehart, Ronald F., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Center for
Political Studies
Jackson, John E., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Center for Political
Studies
Jackson, James S., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Research Center for
Group Dynamics
Jacobson, Harold K., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Center for
Political Studies
Johnston, Jerome, from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Research Center for Group Dynamics
Johnston, Lloyd, from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center
Kinder, Donald R., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Center for Political
Studies
Lepkowski, James M., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research
Scientist, Survey Research Center


23




July Meeting, 1997


Little, Roderick J., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center
Marans, Robert W., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center
Markus, Gregory B., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Center for
Political Studies
Nisbett, Richard E., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Research Center
for Group Dynamics
O'Malley, Patrick M., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center
Organski, A. F. K., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Center for Political
Studies
Price, Richard H., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center
Raghunathan, Trivellore E., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research
Scientist, Survey Research Center
Rockwell, Richard C., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center
Rodgers, Willard L., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center
Schulenberg, John E., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research
Scientist, Research Center for Group Dynamics
Schwarz, Norbert W., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center
Singer, Eleanor, from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research Center
Stafford, Frank P., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center
Thornton, Arland D., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center
Traugott, Michael W., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Center for
Political Studies, September 1, 1997
Vinokur, Amiram, from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research
Center
Vinovskis, Maris A., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Center for
Political Studies
Widner, Jennifer A., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research
Scientist, Center for Political Studies
Williams, David R., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Survey Research Center
Willis, Robert J., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research Center
UM-Dearborn School of Education
Donegan, Mary M., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Education
University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute
Campbell, Kenneth L., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Francher, Paul S., Jr., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Gillespie, Thomas D., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Green, Paul A., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist
Lamb, Thomas, from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Sayers, Michael W., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist
Schneider, Lawrence W., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
Sivak, Michael, from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED REAPPOINTMENTS
OF EMERITUS/A FACULTY
Effective June 1-July 31, 1997
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Veltman, Martinus J., John D. MacArthur Professor Emeritus of Physics
Weinreich, Gabriel, Professor Emeritus of Physics


24




July Meeting, 1997


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Clipson, Colin W., Professor of Architecture, extended sick leave, April 9-December 31, 1997
School of Business Administration
Ashford, Susan J., Professor of Human Resource Management and Organizational Behavior,
with tenure, sabbatical leave
Talbot, Frederick B., Professor of Operations Management, with tenure, and the Herrick
Professor of Manufacturing, sabbatical leave
Walsh, James P., Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management
and Corporate Strategy, with tenure, sabbatical leave
School of Education
Kearney, Charles P., Professor of Education, with tenure, retirement furlough
College of Engineering
Curl, Rane L., Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, retirement furlough,
January 1-December 31, 1997
Duenyas, Izak, Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, sabbatical leave
Vesecky, John F., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Basu, Susanto, Assistant Professor of Economics, teaching leave
Campbell, John C., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Fricke, Thomas E., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1997
Karlsen, Carol F., Associate Professor of History and Women's Studies, with tenure,
scholarly activity leave
Kra, Bryna R., Assistant Professor of Mathematic, research leave
Lawrence, Ruth J., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, duty off campus
Markus, Gregory B., Professor of Political Science, special duty assignment, June 1 -August 31, 1997
Messick, Brinkley M., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, teaching leave
Rappe, Sara L., Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin, scholarly activity leave
Richstone, Douglas O., Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Rosenwald, George C., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Smith, Karen E., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, research leave
Speth, John D., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and
Curator, Museum of Anthropology, sabbatical leave
Taylor, B. Alan, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Mathematics, sabbatical leave
Tosney, Kathryn W., Professor of Biology, with tenure, duty off campus
Tucker, Priscilla K., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Associate Curator,
Museum of Zoology, sabbatical leave
Wasserman, Arthur G., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Weisbuch, Robert A., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, personal
leave
Medical School
Becker, Marjorie C., Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, retirement
furlough, July 1-June 30, 1998
Bude, Ronald O., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1 -December 31, 1997
Teo, Eu-Leong H. J., Lecturer in Radiology, personal leave, May 26-July 4, 1997


25




July Meeting, 1997


School of Natural Resources and Environment
De Young, Raymond K., Associate Professor of Conservation Behavior, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Princen, Thomas E., Associate Professor of International Natural Resources and
Environment Policy, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Stoermer, Eugene F., Professor of Natural Resources, without tenure, teaching leave,
June 11-July 26, 1997
School of Public Health
Marrs, Carl F., Associate Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1997
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Murray, Barbara B., Associate Professor of Business Economics and Finance, with tenure,
retirement furlough, September 1, 1997-April 30, 1999
TERMINATIONS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Parker, Rodney D., Assistant Professor of Architecture, term complete, May 31, 1997
School of Business Administration
Guy, Karen L., Lecturer in Accounting, resigned, June 2, 1997
School of Dentistry
Ruona, Kimberly S., Lecturer in Dentistry, term complete, June 30, 1997
College of Engineering
Chen, I-Wei, Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, resigned,
June 30, 1997
Division of Kinesiology
Worringham, Charles J., Associate Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, resigned,
May 31, 1997
Law School
Aleinikoff, T. Alexander, Professor of Law, with tenure, resigned, May 31, 1997
Cohen, Larry J., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, term complete, May 31, 1997
Dean, Warren T., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, term complete, May 31, 1997
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Cesaretti, Enrico F., Lecturer II in Italian, resigned, June 30, 1997
Comina, Marc, Lecturer II in French, term complete, April 30, 1997
Dion, George D., Assistant Professor of Political Science, term complete, May 31, 1997
Esmiol, Oliver, Lecturer II in French, term complete, April 30, 1997
Jimenez, Maria Del Pino, Lecturer II in Spanish, term complete, April 30, 1997
Lippi-Green, Rosina L., Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with
tenure, and Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, resigned, May 31, 1997
Longan, Nathan F., Lecturer II in Russian Pedagogy, term complete, August 31, 1996
Marker, Cynthia E., Lecturer I in French, term complete April 30, 1997
McKee, Kristen E., Lecturer I in Spanish, term complete, April 30, 1997
Nica, Alexandru M., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, and T. H. Hildebrandt Professor of
Mathematics, term complete, June 30, 1997
Ramey, Dawn M., Lecturer I in Spanish, term complete, May 31, 1997
Scheker, Elka R., Lecturer I in Spanish, term complete, June 30, 1997
Staniszkis, Joanna M., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, term complete, July 31, 1997
Tackett, Astrid E., Lecturer I in Spanish, term complete, April 30, 1997
Van Deventer, Mermone, Lecturer I in French, term complete, December 31, 1996


26




July Meeting, 1997


Walter, Marguerite C., Lecturer I in French, term complete, August 31, 1997
Zevallos, Ann J., Lecturer I in Spanish, term complete, April 30, 1997
Zevallos-Aguilar, Ulises J., Lecturer I in Spanish, term complete, April 30, 1997
Medical School
Baird, Melissa C., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned, June 30, 1997
Benzmiller, Phillip G., Lecturer in Radiology, term complete, June 30, 1997
Buse, Thomas M., Lecturer in Radiology, term complete, June 30, 1997
Engel, Alan B., Lecturer in Radiology, term complete, June 30, 1997
Fahrbach, Thomas R., Lecturer in Family Practice, resigned, December 31, 1993
Field, Laura R., Lecturer in Radiology, term complete, June 30, 1997
Fravel, Jonathan F., Lecturer in Radiology, term complete, June 30, 1997
Grosel, John M., Lecturer in Radiology, term complete, June 30, 1997
Hamilton, Brian H., Lecturer in Radiology, term complete, June 30, 1997
Kilby, Catherine A., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned, June 30, 1997
Kornblum, Sylvan, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired,
June 30, 1997
Levy, Robert J., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical
School, and Professor of Pharmaceutics, without tenure, College of Pharmacy,
resigned, June 30, 1997
Newman, Joel S., Assistant Professor of Radiology, resigned, June 27, 1997
Schuh, Lori A., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Neurology, resigned, June 30, 1997
Shekar, P. C., Lecturer in Radiology, term complete, June 30, 1997
Swinford, Ann E., Lecturer in Radiology, term complete, June 30, 1997
Valentini, Rudolph P., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, term complete,
June 30, 1997
Wing, Christopher M., Lecturer in Radiology, term complete, June 30, 1997
Wolf, Fredric M., Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education,
with tenure, resigned, May 31, 1997
School of Nursing
Bos, Sara L., Lecturer in Nursing, resigned, May 31, 1997
UM-Dearborn School of Education
Bonfiglio, Olga M., Assistant Professor of Education, resigned, April 30, 1997
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Sikora, Riyaz T., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering,
resigned, April 30, 1997
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Schwartz, Joseph M., Assistant Professor of Marketing, resigned, June 30, 1997
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Lavoie, Kathleen H., Professor of Biology, with tenure, resigned, July 31, 1997
UM-Flint School of Management
Davis, Dale A., Associate Professor of Management and Accounting, with tenure, retired,
May 31, 1997
CHANGE TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
TERMINATION OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL
School of Education
Harrison, Don K., Professor of Education, with tenure, retired, August 31, 1997
(previously reported as May 31, 1997)


27




July Meeting, 1997


CANCELLATION OF
PREVIOUSLY APPROVED REGENTS COMMUNICATIONS
Norten, Enrique, Professor of Architecture, with tenure, and Emil Lorch Professor of
Architecture and Planning, cancellation of appointment (previously reported effective
January 1, 1997)
Stillman, Amy K., Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, cancellation of appointment,
(previously reported effective September 1, 1997)
Retirement Memoirs. Seven retirement memoirs were presented to
the Regents.
Richard E. Czarnecki, professor of business administration at the
UM-Dearborn School of Management, retired from active faculty status on
April 30, 1997.
Professor Czarnecki received his B.S. (1953) and M.B.A. (1957) degrees
from the University of Detroit, and his Ph.D. degree in 1965 from Michigan
State University. From 1955-68, he was a professor at the University of
Detroit. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan-Dearborn as a
visiting professor of business administration in 1968 and was promoted to
professor in 1969.
A beloved and dedicated educator, Professor Czarnecki has served with
great distinction throughout his career. A well-recognized leader in the
accounting profession, he has won top honors in the field from such organizations as the Michigan Association of Certified Public Accountants, the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and the National
Association of State Boards of Accountancy. In recognition of teaching and
professional excellence, he has received the UM-Dearborn Distinguished
Teaching Award, the Michigan Association of Governing Boards' Distinguished Faculty Award, the MACPA Distinguished Service Award and
Distinguished Achievement Award, and the AICPA Accounting Educator-ofthe-Year award an unprecedented four times. He has also served as member
and chair of the Michigan State Board of Accountancy and director-at-large
of the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy.
On May 22, 1997, at "A Tribute to Dick Czarnecki," organized by
alumni and colleagues, Professor Czarnecki received a special proclamation
signed by Governor John Engler and the leaders of the state house and
senate. The proclamation recognized Professor Czarnecki as "a highlyrespected educator, administrator, and member of the accounting profession,
who served the academic community, the state of Michigan, and his students
with distinction for over four decades." Known as a devoted educator who
never forgets a name, the three tribute albums that Professor Czarnecki
received at the event, containing over 300 letters from former students and
colleagues, were especially meaningful. He also received the first-ever
Chancellor's Medal from Chancellor James C. Renick, in recognition of his
exceptional contributions to UM-Dearborn.
The Regents now salute this dedicated teacher and senior member of the
Dearborn campus by naming Richard E. Czarnecki professor emeritus of
business administration.


28




July Meeting, 1997


Mary Lou Kemme, assistant professor of psychology, Department of
Psychiatry, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1997, after a
productive career as a teacher, clinician, and diagnostician.
Professor Kemme received her A.B. degree from Calvin College in 1959
and her A.M.. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1961
and 1971, respectively. Between 1960-71, she was a clinical psychology
intern at Children's Psychiatric Hospital, University Counseling Center, and
the Department of Pediatrics at the University of Michigan. As a teaching
assistant, she provided individual and group supervision of psychodiagnostic
methods. She also was a consultant with Perry Nursery School, Washtenaw
County Community Mental Health and York Woods Center. She joined the
University of Michigan as an instructor in 1971 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1974.
Professor Kemme's primary expertise was in the field of child psychotherapy. She was involved in clinical supervision of psychiatric residents,
psychology interns and fellows, and social work students. From 1983-84, she
served as psychology training director for child psychiatry, and in 1984, she
was associate chief psychologist for the Child Service. She was administrative program director for the Child Inpatient and Day Hospital Service from
1984-85 and served as program director of the Day Hospital for Children and
Adolescents from 1985-89. She has been a member of the American Psychological Association since 1971 and a member of the Michigan Psychological
Association since 1974.
Professor Kemme's devoted loyalty as teacher, clinician, and diagnostician has been recognized over the years. Her insightfulness, expertise, and
contributions to the department have been consistently recognized by
faculty, trainees, and staff.
The Regents now salute this distinguished member of the faculty for her
dedicated service by naming Mary Lou Kemme assistant professor emerita of
psychology in the Department of Psychiatry.
Sylvan Kornblum, professor of psychology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and research scientist in the Mental Health Research
Institute and professor of psychology in the Department of Psychiatry,
Medical School, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1997, after a
productive career as a research psychologist.
Born in Antwerp, Belgium, Dr. Kornblum emigrated with his family to
New York City and graduated from the Bronx High School of Science in
1945. He received his B.A. degree in 1951 from Washington University and
his A.M., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees, in 1953, 1955, and 1960, respectively,
from the University of Michigan. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty in 1959 as an associate research psychologist. He was promoted to
research psychologist in 1970, research scientist in 1974, and professor of
psychology with tenure in the Department of Psychiatry in 1975. He has
held his title in the Department of Psychology, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, since 1991.
Dr. Kornblum is internationally known for his novel approach to the
study of human performance. Human performance is often determined by
whether the stimuli and the responses in a task match or not: if they match,


29




July Meeting, 1997


performance is usually better and easier than if they do not match. The
theory that Dr. Kornblum has been developing over the past several
years-the Dimensional Overlap Model-postulates that matches may result
from perceptual, conceptual, or structural similarities between the stimulus
and the response sets. Matches may also reflect the strength of association
between stimuli and responses. The results of experiments he has been
conducting extends the theory to other fundamental cognitive processes and
suggests that the family of tasks studied taps basic human cognitive
capacities.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and scientist for his
dedicated service by naming Sylvan Kornblum professor emeritus of psychology, research scientist emeritus, and professor emeritus of psychology in the
Department of Psychiatry.
Paul R. Lehman, senior associate dean and professor of music, School
of Music, and lecturer, School of Education, will retire from active faculty
status on August 31, 1997.
A native of Athens, Ohio, Professor Lehman received his B.S.Ed. degree
from Ohio University in 1953 and his M.Mus. and Ph.D. degrees from the
University of Michigan in 1959 and 1962, respectively. He was a public
school teacher in Ohio from 1953-55 and served in the U.S. Air Force in
Tripoli from 1955-57. Between 1962 and 1975, he taught at the University
of Colorado, the University of Kentucky, and the Eastman School of Music at
the University of Rochester and served for a year as a music specialist with
the U.S. Department of Education. He joined the faculty of the University of
Michigan in 1975 as a professor of music. He was appointed associate dean
in 1977 and senior associate dean for graduate studies in 1989.
Professor Lehman has served the Music Educators National Conference
continuously since 1964 in several dozen roles, including its presidency from
1984-86. Since 1992, he has been regularly involved in a wide variety of
standards-related publications and activities, and he chaired the task force
that developed the voluntary national standards for K-12 instruction in
music. He has served on the board of directors of the International Society
for Music Education, the executive board and council of the College Music
Society, and in leadership posts in several other influential music education
agencies. He was project director for the National Symposium on the Applications of Psychology to the Teaching and Learning of Music. He has served
as a consultant to state departments of education, state assessment
programs, school districts, foundations, corporations, and to the National
Endowment for the Arts, National Endowment for the Humanities, and the
U.S. Department of Education. He has addressed music educators in almost
every state and in a dozen nations, and he is the author of more than 100
publications concerned with curriculum, teacher education, and measurement and evaluation. He has received citations from the Music Educators
National Conference, National Federation of Music Clubs, Foundation for
the Advancement of Education in Music, the Alumni Society of the University of Michigan School of Music, and other music educators' associations.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Paul R. Lehman professor emeritus of music.


30




July Meeting, 1997


Philip M. Margolis, M.D., professor of psychiatry, retired from active
faculty status on June 30, 1997, after a most productive career.
Dr. Margolis received his B.A. (1945), B.S. (1947), and M.D. (1948)
degrees from the University of Minnesota. He completed an internship at
Milwaukee County Hospital (1948-49) and a psychiatry residency at the
Veterans Administration Hospital and University of Minnesota Hospitals
(1949-52). He was a fellow with the U.S. Public Health Service at Massachusetts General Hospital in 1952-53, and he also received additional graduate
training in psychoanalysis.
From 1953-55, Dr. Margolis was an instructor at the University of
Minnesota, and from 1955-66, he was an assistant professor, then associate
professor, at the University of Chicago. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan in 1966 as professor of psychiatry. He was director of the
Washtenaw County Community Mental Health Center from 1966-72, and in
1969, he received a joint appointment as professor of community mental
health in the School of Public Health. Dr. Margolis served as associate chief
of clinical affairs from 1981-85. In 1985, he helped establish and served as
the first chair of the University of Michigan Hospitals Ethics Committee. He
has also served on the Medical School Admissions Committee.
Dr. Margolis has been a leader in many state and national organizations.
He is a life fellow of the American Psychiatric Association and has been
active in a number of its affiliated organizations. He has served as president
of the Michigan Psychiatric Society and the Washtenaw County Medical
Society. Dr. Margolis served on the Michigan Board of Medicine and is a
member of the board of directors of the Federation of State Medical Boards.
He is a diplomate of the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology and
has been an examiner for the board for thirty years. Within the University,
Dr. Margolis founded and organized the annual Raymond W. Waggoner
Lectureship on Ethics and Values in Medicine in the Department of Psychiatry. He is a resolution officer for the Code of Student Conduct and is chair of
the Civil Liberties Board. In recognition of Dr. Margolis' devotion as a
teacher and clinician, he was given an appreciation award by psychiatric
residents in 1991 and a career service award by the Mental Health Association of Michigan in 1992.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his
dedicated service by naming Philip M. Margolis professor emeritus of
psychiatry.
William Martel, M.D., the Fred Jenner Hodges Professor of Radiology,
will retire from active faculty status on August 31, 1997, after a most productive career as a teacher, researcher, and clinician.
Dr. Martel received his B.S. (1950) and M.D. (1953) degrees from New
York University. After serving his internship at Kings County Hospital in
Brooklyn and residency at Mt. Sinai Hospital in New York City from
1953-57, he joined the University of Michigan Medical School as an instructor in 1957. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1960, associate professor in 1963, and professor in 1966. During his 40 years at the University of
Michigan, Dr. Martel served in numerous capacities, including chief of the
Section of Musculoskeletal Radiology, director of the Radiology Residency


31




July Meeting, 1997


Training Program, director of clinical services, and from 1982-92, as chair of
the Department of Radiology.
Throughout his career, Dr. Martel has been a strong advocate for the
role of radiology in medical student education. When he was not personally
directing the department's efforts, he encouraged and guided others in their
participation. Dr. Martel is an accomplished teacher, both in informal
settings at the viewbox and as a lecturer. He has served as a faculty advisor
to numerous medical students considering a career in radiology and has
frequently taught informally small groups of students interested in
additional exposure prior to beginning their internships. In 1979, he was
awarded the University's Amoco Outstanding Teaching Award. The citation
noted "his sincere dedication to the teaching of medicine, his special talent
for imparting his knowledge and inspiring students to develop their own
latent faculties. His teaching emphasized the common sense approach to
medical diagnosis and his enthusiastic manner, scholarly attitude, and keen
sense of humor left a lasting impression." Dr. Martel's contributions were
further recognized in 1985 when he was named the Fred Jenner Hodges
Professor of Radiology.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his
dedicated service by naming William Martel, the Fred Jenner Hodges Professor Emeritus of Radiology.
James M. Miller, associate professor of industrial and operations
engineering, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1997.
Professor Miller received his B.S. degree in 1963, his M.B.A. degree in
1965, and his Ph.D. degree in 1971, all from The Ohio State University. He
began his career at the University of Michigan as assistant professor of
industrial and operations engineering (IOE) in 1971 and was promoted to
associate professor in 1976.
Professor Miller developed new courses in safety management, occupational and product safety engineering, safety engineering research, and legal
and labor issues in industrial engineering. He co-founded the IOE Occupational Health and Safety graduate program  and traineeship, and with
another faculty member, initiated the University's multi-disciplinary
program in rehabilitation engineering. Within the Dental School, he initiated the application of work measurement and methods engineering to
operative dental practices.
Professor Miller's work on motor carrier safety is well-known, and he
has also contributed greatly to the field of recreational boating safety. His
two volumes that define future directions for the U.S. Coast Guard's
research program in recreational boating safety and human factors are
particularly significant, and he continues to be known as the foremost
authority in this area.
In collaboration with Mark Lehto, Professor Miller also initiated
research that led to publication of the book Warnings: Fundamentals, Design
and Evaluation Methodologies, in 1986. This book has gained international
recognition and continues to be an authoritative source. The approaches he
pioneered are becoming the standard in the design of on-product labeling.


32




July Meeting, 1997


During the Carter administration, Professor Miller was appointed to act
as director of safety standards for the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA). He has also assisted the Consumer Product Safety
Commission on numerous occasions. Most recently, he was asked to conduct
user research and develop the safety labeling that will appear on every
all-terrain vehicle sold in the United States after 1997.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming James M. Miller
associate professor emeritus of industrial and operations engineering.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. The Regents took the following actions with respect to
degrees: They approved the August 1997 Doctoral Degree List; they
approved final degree lists for the June 1997 Medical School commencement
and the May 1997 commencements of the various schools, colleges, divisions,
and branch campuses; and they approved changes to previously approved
degree lists. Copies of all of the degree lists are on file in the Office of the
Secretary of the University.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded
by Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Commitment of $15.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Vector Later-Stage Equity Fund II, L.P.
The Regents received information about the commitment of $15.0
million from the Long Term Portfolio to Vector Later-Stage Equity Fund II,
L.P. This is a follow-on investment to the initial $5.0 million commitment in
Vector Later-Stage Equity Fund, L.P., approved in 1994.
Real Estate Investment Trust Manager
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved State Street Global Advisors Real Estate
Liquid Equity Fund as a passively managed REIT investment vehicle,
pending favorable legal review of the documents by the Office of the General
Counsel. Regent Newman was away from the table when the vote was taken.
Energy Common Stock Manager
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved Spindrift Partners, L.P., as an energy common stock
manager, subject to completion of due diligence and favorable review of the
documents for their legal acceptability by the general counsel's office.
Alternative Asset Investment
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $15.0 million from the Long
Term Portfolio in AG Long-Term Super Fund, L.P., pending favorable legal
review of the documents by the general counsel's office.


33




July Meeting, 1997


Sale of Tax-Exempt Commercial Paper by the University
Executive Vice President Matthews called on Associate Vice President
Norman Herbert. Associate Vice President Herbert noted that the Regents
had previously authorized the issuance of debt secured by a pledge of general
revenues and the development of a structure for the sale of commercial
paper. The proposed commercial paper program would provide interim
financing to University projects which require the issuance of debt.
Refinancing of the outstanding $3.9 million of Regents of the University of
Michigan Variable Rate Demand Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds,
Series 1995, will also be included in the commercial paper program, resulting
in additional savings.
Mr. Herbert explained further details about the commercial paper
program, all of which are contained in the Regents Communication. Following his presentation, Regent Power moved, and Regent Newman seconded, a
resolution authorizing the issuance of up to $120 million of commercial
paper supported by a pledge of general revenues.
Mr. Herbert then commented further on the implications of this
program. He noted that in the past, the University had used fixed rate debt,
which has a higher interest rate than variable rate debt or commercial paper.
The lower financing costs achieved by using commercial paper ultimately
lead to a higher return on investments.
Regent Deitch observed that commercial paper is a method of financing
for the largest and most credit-worthy borrowers, and it deals with short-term
needs for cash. Mr. Herbert noted that the only time the amount of the
outstanding commercial paper would be increased would be based on approved
projects; the Board would be informed each time this is contemplated.
Following further discussion, the vote was taken and the motion was
approved unanimously. The following is the text of the approved resolution:
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY
OF COMMERCIAL PAPER NOTES, SERIES A,
AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer")
constitutes a constitutional body corporate established pursuant to Article VIII,
Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, as amended, with the general
supervision of the University of Michigan (the "University") and the control and
direction of all expenditures from the University's funds; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has determined it is necessary and desirable to
provide for the temporary financing of capital projects of the University currently
under way or to be undertaken within the next succeeding eighteen months,
through the issuance of Regents of the University of Michigan Commercial Paper
Notes, Series A (the "Notes"), in principal amount outstanding from time to time
not to exceed $120,000,000; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has determined it is necessary and appropriate to
refund through the issuance of Notes the outstanding balance of the Issuer's
$5,000,000 Regents of the University of Michigan Variable Rate Demand


34




July Meeting, 1997


Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds, Series 1995 (the "Prior Bonds"), issued
for the purpose of financing improvements to the athletic plant at the University
(collectively, the "Prior Project"); and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has approved certain capital projects to be temporarily financed in whole or in part through the issuance of the Notes, and may
approve additional projects to be so financed in the next eighteen months (all
such projects, together with the Prior Project being herein called the "Projects");
and
WHEREAS, in order to provide for the issuance of the Notes, it will be
necessary for one or more of the executive vice president and chief financial
officer, the associate vice president for finance, or the associate vice president and
treasurer (each an "Authorized Officer") to execute and deliver a Commercial
Paper Issuance Certificate (the "Issuance Certificate"), a Commercial Paper
Issuing and Paying Agent Agreement (the "Paying Agent Agreement") with a
bank to be selected by an Authorized Officer, and one or more Dealer Agreements
(each a "Dealer Agreement") with a dealer or dealers (collectively, the "Dealer")
to be designated by an Authorized Officer; and
WHEREAS, the Notes are to be limited and not general obligations of the
Issuer, payable from and secured by a pledge of General Revenues (as defined in
the Issuance Certificate) and to be additionally payable from Available Investments (as defined in the Issuance Certificate); and
WHEREAS, The Issuer has previously issued certain series of bonds or
notes (the "Senior Lien Indebtedness") secured by and payable from Student Fees
or other revenue streams (other than Hospital Gross Revenues and Medical
Service Plan Revenues) which comprise a portion of General Revenues, and it is
intended that each series of the Senior Lien Indebtedness remain outstanding and
continue to be secured, until paid or defeased, by its respective revenue stream on
a senior lien basis to the Notes and other General Revenue indebtedness subsequently issued, but that no new Senior Lien Indebtedness is to be issued; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary for the Issuer to delegate to each of the Authorized Officers the power to designate certain Authorized Representatives and
Authorized Persons (each as defined in the Issuance Certificate or Paying Agent
Agreement) to undertake certain actions with respect to the issuance of Notes;
and
WHEREAS, the Notes authorized hereby are to finally mature on or before
July 1, 2000, and are intended to be replaced by permanent General Revenue
financing on or prior to such date; and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties, and in order to
prudently control and direct expenditures from the University's funds, the Issuer
determines it is necessary and desirable to authorize the issuance of the Notes to
provide funds to temporarily finance and refinance all or part of the costs of the
Projects, and to pay certain costs incurred in connection with the issuance and
sale of the Notes; and
WHEREAS, in order to be able to market the Notes, it is necessary for the
Issuer to authorize an Authorized Officer to prepare, execute and deliver, on
behalf of the Issuer, an Offering Memorandum (as supplemented from time to
time, the "Offering Memorandum") to be circulated and used in connection with
the marketing, sale and delivery of the Notes, and to take, together with other
appropriate officers, agents and representatives of the Issuer or the University,
additional actions necessary to accomplish the sale and delivery of the Notes, the
administration of the commercial paper program of which the Notes are a part,
and the purposes hereof, all within the limitations set forth herein; and


35




July Meeting, 1997


WHEREAS, the financing and refinancing of the Projects will serve proper
and appropriate public purposes; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has full power under its constitutional authority for
supervision of the University, and control and expenditures from the University
funds, to authorize and acquire the Projects, to finance and refinance by the
issuance of the Notes the costs of the Projects and the costs related to the
issuance of the Notes, and to pledge the General Revenues of the University for
payment of the Notes and to covenant to pay the Notes from Available Investments.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Regents of the University
of Michigan, as follows:
1. The Issuer hereby authorizes the issuance, execution and delivery of the
Notes of the Issuer, in multiple issuances on various dates, to be designated
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY          OF MICHIGAN      COMMERCIAL PAPER
NOTES, SERIES A, in the aggregate principal amount outstanding from time to
time as shall be designated by any two Authorized Officers, but not in excess of
$120,000,0000, to be dated as of a date of issuance of each Note, or otherwise as
shall be determined by an Authorized Officer, for the purpose of financing and
refinancing all or part of the Projects (including refunding the Prior Bonds), and
to pay all or part of the costs incidental to the issuance of the Notes. The Projects
as a whole are hereby determined by the Issuer to constitute a single governmental purpose of the Issuer. The Notes shall not be subject to redemption prior to
maturity. Each Note shall mature not later than 270 days after its date of
issuance, as shall be determined as provided in the Issuance Certificate and
Paying Agent Agreement, and all Notes must mature on or before July 1, 2000.
Interest on each Note shall be payable on the maturity date thereof, at the rate,
not in excess of 12% per annum, to be determined as specified in the Issuance
Certificate and Paying Agent Agreement. The Notes shall be issued in fully registered form, or registered to bearer, in the denominations, shall be subject to
transfer and exchange, and shall be executed and authenticated, all as shall be
provided in the Issuance Certificate. The Notes shall be sold at par through the
Dealer selected by an Authorized Officer, as provided in the Dealer Agreement.
2. The Notes shall be limited and not general obligations of the Issuer
payable from and equally and ratably secured by a lien on General Revenues,
subject only to the senior liens on portions of General Revenues securing the
respective series of Senior Lien Indebtedness (until each respective series of such
Senior Lien Indebtedness is paid or defeased in accordance with its terms), and
moneys from time to time on deposit in the Note Payment Fund created pursuant
to the Issuance Certificate, as provided therein. The Notes shall also be payable
from Available Investments, as provided in the Issuance Certificate. The Issuer
shall covenant in the Issuance Certificate that so long as any of the Notes remain
outstanding, the Issuer will not issue any new series of Senior Lien Indebtedness.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal amount of or
interest on the Notes or any claim based thereon against the state of Michigan,
or, except as provided in the Issuance Certificate, the Issuer, or against any
officer or agent of the Issuer or of the University, as individuals, either directly or
indirectly, nor shall the Notes and interest with respect thereto become a lien on
or be secured by any property, real, personal or mixed of the state of Michigan,
the Issuer, or the University, other than the General Revenues and the moneys
from time to time on deposit in the Note Payment Fund created by the Issuance
Certificate.
3. The right is reserved to issue additional bonds, notes or other obligations
payable from and secured by General Revenues on a parity basis with the Notes
as to the lien on General Revenues, but subject to the prior liens on portions
thereof securing Senior Lien Indebtedness.


36




July Meeting, 1997


4. The Authorized Officers or any of them, are hereby authorized and
directed to select a bank to be Issuing and Paying Agent, and one or more
Dealers, and any two of the Authorized Officers are authorized and directed, in
the name of the Issuer and as its corporate act and deed, to negotiate, execute and
deliver the Issuance Certificate, the Paying Agent Agreement and one or more
Dealer Agreements, substantially in the form previously filed with the secretary
of the Issuer, but with such changes, not inconsistent with the terms of this
Resolution, as the Authorized Officers executing the same shall approve, which
approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution of the respective
documents.
5. The Authorized Officers are, or any one of them is, hereby authorized
and directed to designate employees or agents of the University to act as Authorized Representatives with respect to the issuance of Notes, and to designate
Authorized Persons, who may be employees or agents of the University or
employees or agents of the Dealer, to take certain actions with respect to the
issuance of Notes, all as provided in the Issuance Certificate, the Paying Agent
Agreement, or the Dealer Agreement.
6. The Authorized Officers are, or any one of them is, hereby authorized,
empowered and directed, in the name and on behalf of the Issuer, and as its
corporate act and deed, to execute the Notes by manual or facsimile signature and
to deliver the Notes to the purchaser in exchange for the purchase price thereof,
as provided in the Issuance Certificate and the Paying Agent Agreement. The
Notes may be issued in the form of one or more Master Notes, as provided in the
Paying Agent Agreement.
7. The Authorized Officers are, or any one of them is, hereby authorized to
cause to be prepared and circulated the Offering Memorandum with respect to
the Notes, and to update, or cause to be updated the Offering Memorandum,
through supplements or otherwise, as an Authorized Officer shall deem appropriate, or as may be required by law. Any Dealer is authorized to circulate and use,
in accordance with applicable law, the Offering Memorandum, as the same may
have been updated or supplemented from time to time, in the offering, sale and
delivery of the Notes.
8. The Authorized Officers, the secretary, representatives of the University's general counsel, and any other appropriate officer of the University are
each hereby authorized to perform all acts and deeds and to execute and deliver
all instruments and documents for and on behalf of the Issuer or the University
required by this Resolution or the documents authorized hereby, or necessary,
expedient and proper in connection with the issuance, sale and delivery of the
Notes, from time to time, all as contemplated hereby or in connection with subsequent elections, approvals or determinations under the Issuance Certificate or
other documents. Any reference to any specified officer of the Issuer or the
University in this Resolutions shall include any interim officer occupying such
position.
9. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer
in conflict herewith be and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict
exists.
Calvert Fund
Executive Vice President Matthews informed the Regents that the
Calvert Fund would be eliminated as a retirement plan option effective
January 1, 1998. The CREF Social Choice fund is available for those staff
who prefer a socially responsible investment vehicle.


37




July Meeting, 1997


Renovation Projects
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved the following projects: Upgrading of the
office HVAC distribution in the Medical Science I Building; and replacement
of domestic hot water piping supply and return lines and low pressure
condensate lines in the tunnel from the Central Power Plant to Stockwell
Hall, Mosher Jordan Hall, and Alice Lloyd Hall.
Engineering Programs Building and Plasma Research Building
Addition and Renovation (Student Design Team Project Center)
Executive Vice President Matthews called on Mr. Doug Hanna, University architect, to present the plans for the Student Design Team Project
Center. He said that the purpose of the project is to establish space for
students to form teams to work on high profile engineering projects, such as
the concrete canoe, hybrid electric vehicles, solar cars and solar boats. He
displayed diagrams illustrating a site plan and interior plan, described details
of the interior space plan, and displayed an architectural model of the
finished project.
Dean Director of the College of Engineering commented that this facility
would provide much needed and versatile space for engineering students.
Regent McFee moved approval of the Engineering Programs Building
and Plasma Research Building addition and renovation project, as described.
Regent Newman seconded the motion. President Bollinger noted that the
physical location of this project also has the potential to highlight this area of
campus, which contains a sculpture by the artist Maya Lin. It was noted
that Ms. Lin was involved in developing the plans for the building in an
effort to enhance her sculpture.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
School of Dentistry Kellogg Building Expansion and Renovation
Executive Vice President Matthews noted that the Kellogg Building
Expansion and Renovation project, including site approval and appointment
of architect, had been approved in November 1996. It has since been determined that additional needs exist for lecture rooms and expansion and
renovation of the Pediatric Dental Clinic, in addition to certain building
renewal work.
Mr. Doug Hanna displayed a site plan, revised design and floor plan, and
a rendering of the exterior. Regent Power moved approval of the revised
scope, budget, and design of the Kellogg Building Expansion and Renovation
Project, and authorization for solicitation of bids and awarding of a construction contract to the successful bidder, providing the project remains within
the approved budget. Regent Maynard seconded the motion.


38




July Meeting, 1997


It was noted that the incremental cost of the revised project is about $6
million. There being no further discussion, the vote was taken, and the
motion was approved unanimously.
Palmer Drive Parking Structure
Executive Vice President Matthews noted that the Regents had previously approved a project for construction of a parking structure on open land
east of the Dental School, and had authorized a site development study to
analyze the long range development potential of the area surrounding the
site. He called on Mr. Fred Mayer to present the results of the site development study.
Mr. Mayer described the physical topography of the site and how this
would affect the plan. Other factors which would impact the plan include
traffic patterns; utilities issues; soils; issues having to do with the operation
of the heating plant; service and access issues; use of the space above the
parking structure; the effect of the various structures in the plan on views of
the campus; phasing of the development; and whether or not to keep North
Hall.
Mr. Mayer revealed a model containing blocks of wood whose purpose is
to estimate gross square footage that would fit on the space. He arranged
the blocks of wood in several configurations to illustrate various schemes for
placement of buildings, and to demonstrate that there are a number of
options available for developing the site, and then responded to comments
from the Regents.
Mr. Hanna noted that planners expect to be able to bring a proposed
design for the parking structure for review by the Regents at a future
meeting.
President Bollinger commented that he has had a number of discussions
with University planners and architects about this project, and that he
intends to propose that a master plan be developed for the entire campus.
He noted that this is a key site for the future of the University of Michigan
because the current thinking is that it is the last remaining building site on
the central campus. Its location also points out the psychological and physical barrier between the Medical School, the residence halls, and the central
campus that is created by Washtenaw Avenue. He believes that eventually
this street could become an underpass.
President Bollinger also said that science education at the University is
very important, but that the various science departments are at scattered
locations on central campus and on the medical campus. Linking these
various science departments is a major issue for the University, and also has
an impact on the development of this space. The construction of a parking
lot seems consistent with all of the options for the future of the space.


39




July Meeting, 1997


Central Power Plant Fuel Oil Storage System Replacement and
Service Area Reconstruction
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved the Central Power Plant fuel oil storage
system replacement and service area reconstruction project and budget, and
authorized solicitation of bids and awarding of the construction contract to
the successful bidder, providing the contract values are within the approved
budget.
Proposed Agreement between the University of Michigan and
MEDOX Electro-Optics, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement between the University of Michigan
and MEDOX Electro-Optics, Inc., involving a National Science Foundation
"GOALI" award to a University of Michigan faculty member, with cost
sharing provided by MEDOX Electro-Optics, Inc. Because Gerard Mourou is
both a University of Michigan employee and a member of the board of directors of MEDOX Electro-Optics, Inc., with a 20 percent interest in the firm,
this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
MEDOX Electro-Optics, Inc.
2.  Terms of the agreement are that the NSF GOALI award is for $50,000 for a
period of one year. MEDOX, Inc. will provide $25,000 in cost-sharing as a condition of the award. A portion of both the NSF award and the MEDOX costsharing will pay the salary of the visiting engineer provided by MEDOX to
collaborate with the University's researchers.
3.  Gerard Mourou's pecuniary interest arises from his 20 percent interest in, and
his position as a member of the board of directors of, MEDOX Electro-Optics,
Inc.
Proposed Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Westat, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved an agreement between the University of
Michigan and Westat, Inc., involving a subcontract with Westat, Inc. as part
of a grant to the University funded by the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. Because Lois M. Verbrugge is employed both by the University
of Michigan and by Westat, Inc., with a 50 percent appointment at each, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Westat, Inc.
2.  Terms of the agreement are a total proposed budget of $616,875, covering a
three-year period beginning August 1, 1997. The subcontract to Westat, Inc.


40




July Meeting, 1997


amounts to $218,904 over the three years. The University's standard subcontract provisions apply.
3.  Lois M. Verbrugge's pecuniary interest arises from her status as an employee of
both the University of Michigan and Westat, Inc.
919 and 925 Wall Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved purchase of the property at 919 Wall Street,
Ann Arbor, Michigan, at a price of $143,500, and the property at 925 Wall
Street at a price to be finalized prior to closing in January 1998, as described
in the Regents Communication.
Refinancing of Industrial Technology Institute's Debt
Executive Vice President Matthews commented that under the terms of
the ground lease between the University and the Industrial Technology Institute (ITI), ITI cannot mortgage its interest in the lease, the leased premises,
or its building without the University's prior written approval. ITI wishes to
refinance its outstanding debt, and based on University's review of its financial condition, the University recommends approval of this request.
Following some discussion, Regent Power moved that the executive vice
president and chief financial officer be authorized to consent in writing to
ITI's request to refinance its outstanding debt, provided the terms and
amount of the financing are satisfactory to the University and permit all of
the material terms and provisions of the lease dated March 1, 1985 to remain
intact.  Regent Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
President Bollinger noted that although Regent McGowan was not
present for the vote, had she been present would have recused herself from
voting on this issue due to a conflict of interest.
Naming of College of Engineering Reflecting Pool and Fountain
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved naming of the reflecting pool between the
Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project and the Robert H. Lurie Engineering
Center the "Class of 1947E Reflecting Pool," and the naming of the pool's
fountain the "Fred Matthaei Fountain."
Arbor Lakes Property
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously authorized the University to pursue acquisition of the
Arbor Lakes property (4251 Plymouth Road, Ann Arbor) at a price not to
exceed the asking price of $13 million, subject to an acceptable environmental survey of the property, an acceptable inspection of the buildings and
mechanical systems, and an acceptable appraisal.


41




July Meeting, 1997


Residency Guidelines
Regent Power moved approval of "Information on Residency Classification for Admission and Tuition Purposes" and "Residency Classification
Guidelines" (both of which shall be referred to as the "Guidelines") as a
replacement for the 1974 Residence Regulations, effective Spring Term,
1998, and a change in the make-up of the Residency Appeals Committee,
effective immediately. Regent Maynard seconded the motion.
Provost Machen noted that the new guidelines do not contain any
significant changes in the practices or policies of the University with respect
to residency determinations. Their purpose is to help students better understand the requirements they must satisfy to be eligible for residency and the
process they must follow to obtain residency.
Regent Newman complimented the staff on the revised guidelines,
noting that a lot of effort had gone into developing them, and said that she
will be interested to see how well they work. Regent McFee observed that in
her years of service on the board she had been approached a number of times
about residency issues, and that these guidelines appear to provide clarification of what is required. She suggested that the guidelines be forwarded to
high schools.
Regent Newman left the meeting at this point, at 11:15 a.m. Provost
Machen noted that this project had had significant input from the secretary
of the University and from the general counsel, and is one of the last projects
that had been undertaken by Associate Vice President Susan Lipschutz
before she died.
There being no further discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion
was approved unanimously. The text of the Guidelines is contained in the
appendix (page 45).
New Degree Program for the UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously approved a new degree program, "Master of Science in
Nursing," to be offered by the UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies, as described in the Regents Communication. Regent Horning was
away from the table for this and the following two votes.
New Degree Program for UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved a new degree program, "Bachelor of Science in
Engineering (Manufacturing Engineering)," to be offered by the UM-Dearborn
School of Engineering, as described in the Regents Communication.


42




July Meeting, 1997


Recommendations for Appointment to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McFee, and on the
recommendation of the UM Hospitals Executive Board, the Regents unanimously approved certain specified appointments to medical staff membership.
Revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 5.07
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved a revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 5.07.
The revised bylaw follows:
Section 5.07. Administrative Officers of Other University Units
Administrative officers of units other than those covered by Sec. 5.06 shall be
appointed by the Board on recommendation by the president. They shall perform such
administrative duties as are prescribed by the appropriate University authorities.
Appointments to such administrative positions are without tenure and may be
terminated upon the request of the appointee for relief from administrative duties or
by the action of the Board.
Presentation: Research and Undergraduate Education: A Michigan
Tradition
President Bollinger called on Vice President Neidhardt, who gave a
presentation about the University of Michigan's efforts to promote research
experiences for undergraduate students. The presentation highlighted a
number of programs in place at the University, including the Undergraduate
Research Opportunities Program (UROP), the 21st Century Program, the
Women in Science and Engineering residence hall program, and the Faculty
Fellows Program. Vice President Neidhardt described the successes to date
and challenges remaining in reforming undergraduate education.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:45
a.m. Regents' expenses paid in June 1997 totaled $679.80. The date of the
special meeting to be held in August will be announced shortly. The next
regular meeting is scheduled for September 19, 1997.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


43




JULY MEETING, 1997
APPENDIX A
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
INFORMATION ON RESIDENCY CLASSIFICATION
FOR ADMISSION AND TUITION PURPOSES
Authority
The governing board at each university in Michigan has the authority to determine
residency classification guidelines for admission and tuition purposes. Therefore, residency
guidelines may vary from school to school and are independent of guidelines used by other
state authorities to determine residency for purposes such as income and property tax liability,
driving, and voting.
The following guidelines were approved by the University of Michigan's Board of
Regents to take effect spring term 1998 and to apply to students at all campuses of the
University of Michigan. The guidelines are administered by the Residency Classification
Office in the Office of the Registrar at the Ann Arbor campus, 1514 LS&A Building, University
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1382, (734) 764-1400.
The Student's Responsibilities and the Residency Application Process
It is the student's responsibility to read the University Residency Classification Guidelines
contained in this document and to apply for admission and register under the proper
residency classification. It is also the student's responsibility to file an Application for
Resident Classification for an official determination of status. Students are encouraged to
consult with staff in the Residency Classification Office if they have questions or assistance.
The admissions offices at the various schools and colleges within the University perform the
initial screening for residency classification. If a student indicates Michigan resident status
on the admissions application and the admissions office questions that status, the student
will be classified as a nonresident and notified of the need to file an Application for Resident
Classification with the Residency Classification Office. The fact that a student's claim to
residency for University purposes is questioned does not necessarily mean that he or she will be
ineligible; it simply means that the student's circumstances must be documented and
reviewed by the Residency Classification Office. Failure on the part of admissions staff to
question a student's claim to resident eligibility does not relieve the student of the responsibility to apply and register under the proper residency classification. Furthermore, the University reserves the right to audit enrolled or prospective students at any time with regard to eligibility for resident classification and to reclassify students who are registered under an
improper residency classification.
Until an Application for Resident Classification is filed and approved, a student who
previously attended any campus of the University of Michigan as a nonresident will continue
to be classified as a nonresident at all campuses.
Upon application for admission to any campus of the University, an individual who
claims eligibility for resident classification must file an Application for Resident Classification
for an official determination of status if any of the following circumstances apply:
* the individual is living out of state at the time of application to the University
* either parent is living out of state (applies if the individual is 24 years of age
or younger)


45




July Meeting, 1997 - Appendix A


*    the individual has attended or graduated from an out of state high school
(applies if the individual is 24 years of age or younger)
*    the individual has attended or graduated from an out of state high school
and has been involved in educational pursuits for the majority of time since
graduation from high school
*    the individual has had out of state employment or domicile within the last 3
years
The above list is not exhaustive. An individual is responsible for filing an application for
resident classification in any situation where the individual's eligibility for residency under
these guidelines could be reasonably questioned.
Filing Deadlines
Students may apply for resident classification for any term in which they are enrolled
or intend to enroll. The deadline dates for filing the Application for Resident Classification
are the same for all University of Michigan schools, colleges, and campuses.* The following
dates apply to the term for which residency is sought If the deadline falls on a weekend, it
will be extended to the next business day.
Fall Term.... September 30
Winter Term.... January 31
For all Spring, Spring/Summer, and Summer Terms.... July 31
* For the On Job/On Campus program, filing deadlines are 30 calendar days after the
first scheduled day of classes.
Documentation Which Must Be Included When Filming for Resident Classification
When filing an Application for Resident Classification, the following documentation
must be included with the application form:
*    for all applicants: a copy of the driver's license of the applicant and of the
person or persons upon whom the applicant is basing the claim to resident
eligibility
* for all applicants: copies of the front and signature pages of the most recent
year's federal and state income tax returns and W2s for the applicant and
the person or persons upon whom the applicant is basing the claim to
resident eligibility
*   for applicants born outside the U.S.: verification of U.S. citizenship or visa
status
*   for applicants who are dependents: (see Residence Classification Guideline
B-l) copies of the front and signature pages of the parents' most recent
year's federal and state income tax returns
*   for applicants whose claim to eligibility for resident classification is based on
permanent full-time employment for themselves, a parent, spouse, or domestic partner: a letter from the employer, written on letterhead (including
phone number), stating the position, status and dates of employment. The letter
should be accompanied by a copy of the most recent pay stub showing Michigan
taxes being withheld.
Applicants are also responsible for providing any other documentation necessary to
support their claim to resident eligibility. Additional documentation may be requested by the
Residency Classification Office.


46




July Meeting, 1997 - Appendix A


Appeal Process
If an Application for Resident Classification is denied by the Residency Classification
Office, the student may request that his or her file be reviewed by the University's Residency
Appeal Committee. The appeal request must be made in writing and must be received in the
Residency Classification Office within 30 calendar days of the date on the denial letter. If the
deadline falls on a weekend or University holiday, it will be extended to the next business day.
All contact with the Residency Appeal Committee must be in writing. Personal contact
with a member of the committee prior to the meeting could disqualify the member from
participating in the decision. A student who wishes the committee to consider additional
information must submit the information to the Residency Classification Office, in writing,
with the appeal request The information will then be forwarded to the Residency Appeal
Committee with the student's file.
The student will receive a written decision from the committee when the review is
complete. Once the Residency Appeal Committee issues its decision there are no further
appeals for the term covered by the application.
Misrepresentation and Falsification of Information
Applicants who provide false or misleading information or who intentionally omit relevant
information in an application for admission, an application for resident classification, or any
other document relevant to residency eligibility may be subject to legal or disciplinary
measures. Students improperly classified as residents based on this type of information will
have their residency classification changed and may be retroactively charged nonresident
tuition for the period of time they were improperly classified.
Residency Classification Guidelines
For University purposes. "domicile" is defined as the place where an individual intends
his/her true, fixed, and permanent home and principal establishment to be, and to which the
individual intends to return whenever he or she is absent. These Guidelines are designed to
explain how a student may demonstrate the required intent and establishment of a domicile in
Michigan. An individual whose activities and circumstances, as documented to the University,
demonstrate that she/he intends to be domiciled in Michigan has, in fact, established a
domicile in Michigan will be eligible for classification as a resident. An individual whose
presence in the state is based on activities or circumstances that are indeterminate or temporary,
such as (but not limited to) educational pursuits, will be presumed not to be domiciled in
Michigan and will be classified as a nonresident. The burden of proof is on the applicant to
demonstrate with clear and convincing evidence that he or she is eligible for resident classification
under these guidelines.
These guidelines describe situations that create presumptions of resident and nonresident
status. The fact that a presumption of resident status may apply to a student does not mean
that the student will automatically be classified as a resident or that the student is relieved
of the responsibility for filing an Application for Resident Classification. (See The Student's
Responsibilities and the Residency Application Process on page 1.) To overcome a presumption
of nonresident status, a student must file a residency application and document with clear
and convincing evidence that a Michigan domicile has been established.
A. GENERAL GUIDELINES
1.   Circumstances which may demonstrate permanent domicile
The following circumstances and activities, though not conclusive or exhaustive
may lend support to a claim to eligibility for resident classification:


47




July Meeting, 1997 - Appendix A


* both parents (in the case of divorce, one parent) permanently
domiciled in Michigan as demonstrated by permanent employment,
establishment of a household, and severance of out of state ties
* applicant employed in the state in a full-time, permanent
position provided that the applicant's employment is the primary
purpose for the applicant's presence in Michigan
* spouse or domestic partner employed in the state in a full-time,
permanent position provided that the spouse or partner's employment is the primary purpose for the student's presence in Michigan
2.   Circumstances which do not demonstrate permanent domicile
The circumstances and activities listed below are temporary or indeterminate
and, in and of themselves, do not demonstrate permanent domicile:
*    enrollment in high school, community college, or university
*    participation in a medical residency program, fellowship or internship
*    employment that is temporary or short-term
*    military assignment
*    employment in a position normally held by a student
*    ownership of property
*    presence of relatives (other than parents)
*    possession of a Michigan driver's license or voter registration
~    payment of Michigan income or property taxes
~    the applicant's statement of intent to be domiciled in Michigan
3.   One year continuous presence
In cases where it is determined that an applicant has not demonstrated establishment of a domicile in Michigan as defined by these guidelines, the University will
require the applicant to document one year of continuous physical presence in the
state as one of the criteria for determining eligibility for resident classification in
any subsequent Application for Resident Classification. The year to be
documented will be the one year immediately preceding the first day of classes of
the term in question. The year of continuous presence is never the only criterion
used for determining resident eligibility, and, in itself, will not qualify a student for
resident status. If substantial and new information arises which changes the circumstances of a student's presence in Michigan and which clearly demonstrates the establishment of a Michigan domicile, the student may be immediately eligible for
resident classification prior to the passage of one year.
In documenting the year of continuous physical presence in Michigan, the applicant will be expected to show actual physical presence by means of enrollment,
employment, in-person financial transactions, health care appointments, etc.
Having a lease or a permanent address in the state does not, in itself, qualify as
physical presence. Short-term absences (summer vacation of 21 days or less,
spring break, and break between fall and winter term), in and of themselves, will
not jeopardize compliance with the one year requirement. In determining the
effect of a short term absence, the nature of the absence will be assessed to determine whether it is contrary to an intent to be domiciled in Michigan. Absences
from the state in excess of the time mentioned above or failure to document
physical presence at the beginning and end of the year will be considered as
noncompliance with the one-year continuous presence requirement.


48




July Meeitmg, 1997 Appendix A


Bo  IRESIDENCY PRESUIMPTIONS IN PARTICULAR             CIRCU$UMSTANCCES
The fact that a presumption of resident status may apply to a student does not mean
that the student will automatically be classified as a resident or that the student is
relieved of the responsibility for filing an Application for Resident Classification. (See
The Student's Responsibilities and the Residency Application Process on page 1.)
1. Depende Sdent Students
For University residency classification purposes, a student is presumed to be a dependent of his or her parents if the student is 24 years of age or younger and (1) has
been primarily involved in educational pursuits, or (2) has not been entirely financially self-supporting through employment
a    Residents
i.   Dependent Student - Parents in Michigan
A  dependent sdenent whose parents are, according to University
Residency Classification Guidelines, domiciled in Michigan is presumed to
be eligible for resident classification for University purposes as long as the
student has not taken steps to establish a domicile outside of Michigan or
any other action inconsistent with maintaining a domicile in Michigan.
ii.  Dependent Student of Divorced Parents - One Parent in Michigan
A dependent student whose parents are divorced is presumed to be
eligible for resident classification for University purposes if one parent
is, according to University Residency Classification  Guidelines,
domiciled in Michigan. The student mut   not have taken steps to
establish an independent domicile outside of Michigan or any other
action inconsistent with maintaining a domicile in Michigan.
iii.  Dependent Resident Student Whose Parents Leave Michigan
A student who is living in Michigan and who is, by University
Residency Classification Guidelines, permanently domiciled in Michigan does not lose resident status if the parents leave Michigan,
provided (1) that the student has completed at least the junior year of
high school prior to the parents' departure, (2) that the student
remains in Michigan, enrolled as a full-time student in high school or
an institution of higher education, and (3) that the student has not
taken steps to establish a domicile outside Michigan or any other
action inconsistent with maintaining a domicile in Michigan.
b.   Nonresidents
Dependent Student - Parents not in Michigan
A dependent student whose parents are domiciled outside the state of Michigan
is presumed to be a nonresident for University purposes.
2.   Michigan Residents and Absences From the State
Individuals who have been domiciled in Michigan according to University
Residency Classification Guidelines immediately preceding certain types of
absences from the state may retain their eligibility for resident classification
under the conditions listed below:
a    One Year Absence
An individual who has been domiciled in Michigan immediately preceding
an absence from the state of less than one year may return to the University


49




July Meeting, 1997 - Appendix A


as a resident for admission and tuition purposes provided (1) that the
individual has maintained significant ties to the state during his or her
absence, and (2) that the individual severs out of state ties upon returning
to Michigan.
While a student described in this subsection is presumed to have retained
his/her eligibility for resident classification, an individual who has been
absent from the state in excess of one year (and who does not fall within the
circumstances described at (b) - (c) below) may still be able to prove eligibility for resident classification if the student 1) has not established a domicile
outside Michigan; 2) demonstrates the continuous maintenance of a Michigan domicile throughout his/her absence (e.g. payment of Michigan taxes,
maintenance of Michigan driver's license and Michigan voters registration,
active bank/business accounts, and parents still in state); and 3) severs all
out of state ties upon returning to Michigan.
b.   Absence for Active Duty Military Service (Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines,
Coast Guard), Missionary Work, Peace Corps, or Similar Philanthropic Work
An individual who is domiciled in Michigan at the time of entry into active
military duty, missionary work, Peace Corps, or similar philanthropic work
does not lose eligibility for resident classification as long as he or she is on
continuous active duty and continuously claims Michigan as the state of
legal residence for income tax purposes. Dependent children of such an
individual are also eligible for resident classification, provided (1) that they
are coming to the University directly from high school or they have been
continuously enrolled in college since graduating from high school, and (2) that
they have not claimed residency for tuition purposes elsewhere.
c.   Absence for Education or Training
An individual who is domiciled in Michigan immediately preceding an absence
from the state for full-time enrollment in school or for a medical residency
program, internship, or fellowship does not lose eligibility for resident classification provided (1) that the individual has maintained significant ties to
the state during his or her absence (e.g., parents still in the state, payment
of state taxes, active business accounts), and (2) that the individual has not
claimed residency for tuition purposes elsewhere.
3.   Residence Status of Immigrants and Aliens
Only persons who are entitled to reside permanently in the United States may be
eligible for resident classification at the University. These individuals, like U.S.
citizens, must still prove that they have established a Michigan domicile as
defined in these guidelines. Having the privilege of remaining permanently in the
United States, in itself, does not entitle a person to resident classification for
University purposes. The Residency Classification Office will review the circumstances of the following classes of immigrants:
*    Permanent Resident Aliens (must be fully processed and possess Permanent
Resident Alien card or stamp in passport verifying final approval by filing
deadline for applicable term)
*  Refugees (1-94 card must designate "Refugee")
*    A, E (primarv'), G and I visa holders *
* Based upon current law, these nonimmigrant visa classifications are the only
ones that permit the visa holder to establish a domicile in the United States. The
University Registrar shall update this list as changes occur in applicable law.


50




SPECIAL MEETING, AUGUST 1997


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Wednesday, August 6, 1997
A special meeting of the Board of Regents was conducted via conference
telephone call on August 6, 1997, at 11:10 a.m. Present in the Regents'
Room were President Bollinger, Regent McGowan, Secretary Palmer, and
Interim Co-General Counsel Barry. Joining the meeting by telephone were
Regents Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McFee, Power, and Taylor, Executive
Vice President Matthews, and Vice President Harrison. Regent Newman
was unable to participate.
FY 1998 University of Michigan's Health System's Clinical Delivery
System (CDS) Operating Budget
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and said that the issue
before the Board was the approval of the hospital budget. He noted that at
the last meeting it had been decided to postpone this decision until the
administration could consider whether to go ahead with the "M-Care
Preference" proposal. He announced that the administration has decided
not to go forward with M-Care Preference at this time. If it is necessary to
find an additional $2 million in revenues to balance the budget at the end of
the year, these funds would be drawn from the Hospitals' reserves.
M-Care Preference. President Bollinger commented that the original
plan had been to propose the M-Care Preference plan as part of the revenues
in the CDS budget presented at the July Regents' meeting. This proposal
was one of several changes in the compensation program that had been
developed by the health system over the past several years in an attempt to
reduce costs, increase revenues, and generally reorganize the medical center.
He applauded the efforts of Larry Warren, interim executive director of the
Hospitals, in trying to bring the Medical Center into budgetary balance and
said that the University is grateful to him and the health system staff for all
of their efforts.
President Bollinger noted that while most of the proposals regarding
changes in the form of compensation offered to employees applied only to
Hospitals' employees, M-Care preference would have applied to the whole
University. After considering all of the proposals, it was decided to table all
of them except M-Care preference. In May, after meeting with several
campus groups for advice on whether to proceed with the M-Care preference
initiative, administrators believed it was the appropriate thing to do.
However, by the time of the July Regents' Meeting, it became increasingly
evident that perhaps there had been insufficient discussion of the issue.
Therefore, at the July meeting, he suggested that the Regents approve
the budget without M-Care preference included, opening the way for an


51




Special Meeting, August 1997


opportunity to have further discussion about the issue. The Board decided
instead to withhold action on the entire budget until discussions had been
held about M-Care preference, and that is the purpose of the current
meeting. President Bollinger noted that based on the feedback received since
the July meeting, he had concluded that further discussion was needed about
this and the other compensation items mentioned earlier.
President Bollinger cautioned that it should not be concluded that the
University is ungrateful for the efforts that have been made at the Hospitals,
nor does the administration want to convey that it will back down from
economic decisions that it believes are important for the University simply
because there is opposition. He also emphasized that it should not be
concluded that M-Care preference is being eliminated from consideration in
the future. Rather, he is proposing that this issue, along with the other
items, needs to be subjected to further campus discussion. The risks of not
doing so are not only that no new ideas will be elicited, but that there will be
an antagonism towards the Medical Center that, however unjustified, could
arise simply because people felt that there had not been an adequate
presentation of the need for the proposal.
In conclusion, he said he was recommending tabling of the M-Care
preference initiative, and asking for consideration of a Health System budget
that does not include M-Care preference.
Executive Vice President Matthews stated that he concurs with the
president's judgment. He observed that the Health System budget proposal
had gone through a number of iterations. The understanding had been that
there would be an attempt to build M-Care preference into the budget, but
obviously it would not be prudent to do that at this time. He observed that
the system had a "below the line" reserve and was not in dire straits, and
that although it would be appropriate to use the reserve under these
circumstances, in general, using the reserves is not a wise way to run an
enterprise over the long term. He noted that the reserves were built up
because the Hospitals had been prudent and successful in the past, and it
makes sense to take advantage of that. With that understanding, and with
the idea of working closely with the Hospitals in the coming year to go over
some of the broader issues affecting employees, the Hospitals would be able
to continue with its cost containment program.
Regent Maynard stated that she was comfortable with the decision. She
noted the excellent feedback that had been received from members of the
University community and wanted to be sure there would continue to be an
open discussion about these issues facing the Regents.
Regent McFee commented that she appreciated the efforts of the
Medical Center community in trying to address the economic issues facing
the health system. She cautioned that in tabling the issue to allow for
further discussion, it was important that the entire University recognize that
for a number of years the Medical Center had been a very profitable
enterprise, with much of it spilling over to the entire University. Now that
the reverse is the case, she believes the University as a whole should come
together to overcome the challenge facing the Medical Center and recognize
52




Special Meeting, August 1997


that we all have a responsibility to meet it. If, after further discussion, it
appears that the M-Care proposal will be a means to help balance the
Medical Center's budget, she thinks "we all should recognize that we need to
be part of that solution."
Regent Horning expressed agreement with Regent McFee's comments
and moved approval of the FY1998 University of Michigan Health System's
Clinical Delivery System Operating Budget. Regent Power seconded the
motion. Regents Deitch and Taylor also associated themselves with Regent
McFee's comments. The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved
unanimously.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:25 a.m.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


53




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1997


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, September 18, 1997
The Regents convened at 1:45 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Interim Executive Vice
President Matthews, Provost Cantor, Vice President Harrison, Vice President
Hartford, Vice President Kinnear, Acting Vice President Neidhardt, Chancellors
Nelms and Renick, Interim Co-General Counsel Barry, and Secretary Palmer.
Executive Vice President for Medical Affairs
President Bollinger announced that after having conducted an exhaustive
search, the clear choice that emerged to fill the position of executive vice
president for medical affairs was Gilbert S. Omenn, of the University of
Washington, and he reviewed Dr. Omenn's background and qualifications.
Regent McGowan moved approval of the appointment of Gilbert S. Omenn as
executive vice president for medical affairs. Regent Newman seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously. There followed a round of
applause, after which Dr. Omenn joined the Regents and officers at the table
and expressed how pleased he was to accept the appointment.  Regent
McGowan welcomed him and said that the Regents looked forward to
working with him.
Donald R. Shepherd Director of Intercollegiate Athletics
President Bollinger announced his recommendation for the appointment
of Thomas A. Goss as the Donald R. Shepherd Director of Intercollegiate
Athletics, noting that it was Mr. Goss's character and values that were most
important in his selection for this post. On a motion by Regent Newman,
seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously approved the appointment
of Thomas A. Goss as the Donald R. Shepherd Director of Intercollegiate
Athletics.
Mr. Goss, who was present at the meeting, said that he was very excited
to be at Michigan, and that he shared the same values as President Bollinger
and the Regents. Regent Deitch commented on how lucky the University
was to have been able to attract two such accomplished individuals to fill key
appointments.
University of Michigan Financial Statements for Year-Ended
June 30, 1997
Referring to the separately bound consolidated financial statements,
Executive Vice President Matthews noted that the University had received a
clean opinion from its independent auditors, Ernst & Young LLP.


55




September Meeting, 1997


University of Michigan Year-End Financial Information for 1996-97
Executive Vice President Matthews called on Mr. Robert Moenart,
controller and director of financial operations, to review the year-end financial
information. Mr. Moenart compared how the various categories of funds,
revenues, expenditures, and endowments have changed over the past ten
years since 1987-88. Since that time, current funds educational and general
revenues have increased from $801 million to $1.472 million. The proportion
derived from state appropriations has decreased from 33 percent to 23
percent, while the portion derived from student fees has risen from 27
percent to 32 percent.
Auxiliary activities revenues have risen from $576 million in 1987-88 to
$1,174 in 1996-97, with the proportion attributed to hospital, medical, and
dental activities rising from about 84 percent to 87 percent. During that
time, total compensation expenditures have decreased from about 60 percent
of the Current Funds expenditures to 56 percent, and the proportion of that
expense attributed to staff benefits has increased. Expenditures for scholarships and fellowships have risen from 7 percent of the total to 10 percent of
the total. Provost Cantor observed that this figure reflects a change in institutional priorities, rather than an increase in demand.
Mr. Moenart noted that total auxiliary activities expenditures have been
generally flat over the past few years, and have been declining in the hospital
and medical area. The endowment and other invested funds have achieved a
10-year compound growth rate of 22.8 percent, after distributions of 5
percent. Investment in plant (including land, land improvements, buildings,
and equipment) has increased from $1.787 billion to $3.606 billion in the
past ten years.
Regent Power observed that corporate entities typically have a capital
budget separate from the operating budget, and he raised the question as to
whether this would be beneficial for the University to do as well. Executive
Vice President Matthews replied that the University does have a campus
plan, but that because of funding uncertainties, implementation of the plan
cannot always be done as intended. Regent Power reiterated that it may be
beneficial for the University to have a separate capital budget and requested
that some thought be given to this idea.
In response to a question from Regent Maynard about whether athletic
department revenues are ever funneled into the academic side of the institution, it was noted that all athletic department revenues stay within the
department and are used to fund it, although some of these funds are used to
support academic programs within the department. Vice President Harrison
pointed out that there is a "fire wall" between the athletic department and
the rest of the University such that funds are not exchanged between the two.
In conclusion, Mr. Moenart stated that the University's debt service as a
percentage of the operating expenditures has decreased, it is solvent, and is
in excellent shape financially.


56




September Meeting, 1997


On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of the financial report.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted minutes of the July 17-18, 1997,
meeting and of the August 6, 1997, special meeting.
Reports. Executive Vice President Matthews submitted reports of
Investments, Plant Extension, Litigation, and Human Resources and
Affirmative Action. He called the Regents' attention to a change involving
the investment manager Qualivest, as described in the monthly investment
report.
Vice President Neidhardt submitted a Report of Projects Established for
the months of July and August 1997. He announced the resignation of Mr.
Robert Robb as director of the Technology Management Office, effective in
mid-October. He also requested feedback from the Regents as to possible
topics for special reports during the coming year. Regent Power expressed a
desire to hear a report on the campus environment for technology transfer.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted three reports:
a year-end report for fiscal year 1996-97 and reports of gifts received for the
months of July and August, 1997. He noted that the 1996-97 total of almost
$154 million exceeded the previous year's gift total by $35 million.
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts and the Biophysics Research Division.......................................  103,378
American Chemical Society, Washington, DC
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 25,000
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.......................................... 25,000
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 25,000
American Society for Quality Control, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the National Quality Research Center in the School of Business Administration..... 50,000
Ameritech of Michigan, Detroit
for the MBA Peace Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration.............. 10,000
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute.......................................  100,000
Anonymous Donor
2,319 shares of Johnson Controls common stock
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................  101,456
Aramco Services Company, Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in
the  College  of Engineering....................................................... 20,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the Institute of Gerontology................... 74,996
Lydia Baird Muncy Estate
for the Bentley Historical Library.................................................. 9,192
Baker & McKenzie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Baker & McKenzie Law Student Assistance Program Fund in the Law School..... 5,000
Morris & Beverly Baker Foundation, Windsor, Ontario, Canada
for the Morris D. Baker Endowed Scholarship in the College of Architecture and
Urban  Planning................................................................ 25,000
Arthur P. Bartholomew, Jr., Ocean Ridge, Florida
100 shares of Foremost Corporation of America common stock
for the Ernst & Young Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............ 5,959


57




September Meeting, 1997


Marion E. Beebe Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics.................................... 25,000
Robert N. Beebe Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 25,000
Dorothy Gondos Beers, Fairfax, Virginia
213 shares of Capstone Capital common stock
for the Victor Gondos, Jr., Archives Fund in the College of Architecture and
Urban  Planning.................................................................  5,072
Esther Bihlmeyer Estate
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical School......... 50,000
Penny B. Blumenstein, Bloomfield Hills
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the University Library.....5,000
William J. and Claire W. Bogaard Charitable Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the William J. and Claire W. Bogaard Fund and other support in the Law School..... 50,000
Robert Bosch Company, Reutlingen, Germany
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 14,985
Rosario C. Bouffard, Olney, Illinois
for the William Martel Professorship in the Medical School........................... 5,000
Robert P. Briggs, Elk Rapids
500 shares of Key Corp common stock
for the Paton Accounting Center in the School of Business Administration.............30,578
Eric V. and Linda Brown, Jr. Fund, Kalamazoo
for the Eric V. Brown Family Scholarship in the Law School.......................... 6,000
Jenet K. Brown Estate
1,326 shares of various corporate common stock
for the M. M., J. K. and D. J. Brown Memorial Fund................................ 75,933
Robert W. Browne, Ada
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 30,000
Wilber M. Brucker, Jr., Grosse Pointe Farms
100 shares of Comerica, Inc., common stock
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School................................. 7,409
Wilbert H. Budd, Elkhart, Indiana
500 shares of CTS Corporation common stock
for the Budd Student Aid Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 41,500
Budres Foundation Scholarship, Grand Rapids
for support in  the  School of Music................................................. 5,000
Wendy Will Case Cancer Fund, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School................................................. 7,500
Mary Folsom Champe Estate
for support of the Law   School.................................................... 10,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for em ployee  m atching  gifts...................................................... 96,931
Citizens Commercial & Savings Bank Charitable Trust
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint...................................... 7,000
Julian E. Clark, Arlington, Virginia
163 shares of Merck & Company common stock
for support of the Law  School.................................................... 15,069
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for student aid in the School of Business Administration............................. 11,400
Carl S. Conlon Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................. 100,000
George R. Corey, Millbrae, California
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 30,000
Eleanor M. Coulter, Midland
144 shares of William Wrigley, Jr., Company common stock
for the Eleanor M. Coulter Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the  College  of Engineering....................................................... 10,355
H. Charles Cremin, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Allstate common stock
for the Class of 1957 Engineering Scholarship in the College of Engineering............. 7,663
Franklin M. Cunard, Clinton Township
200 shares of Schering-Plough Corporation common stock
for the Franklin M. Cunard, Jr., Donor Pooled Income Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering............................... 10,538
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 22,398


58




September Meeting, 1997


Albert C. Dames Estate
for the Albert C. Dames Memorial Scholarship......................................5,000
Irene F. Davis Charitable Trust
for support in  the School of Music................................................13,200
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.......................................20,000
Dermik Laboratories, Inc., Collegeville, Pennsylvania
for the William B. Taylor Endowment in the Medical School...........................5,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the University Musical Society, and for employee matching gifts...................19,084
Detroit Free Press, Inc., Detroit
for the Detroit Free Press Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.............................................................5,000
Detroit Red Wing Alumni Association, Inc., Detroit
for the University Hospitals......................................................10,000
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for the Corporate Environmental Management Program in the Schools of
Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment.................. 250,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for research  in  the Medical School................................................30,000
Evangeline L. Dumesnil Estate
for the Maurice H. and Evangeline L. Dumesnil Scholarship in the School of Music......45,129
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for support in the School of Business Administration, and the Colleges of
Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 117,000
John R. Edman, Bay View
100 shares of Intel common stock
for the John R. and Betty B. Edman Award for Scholarship and Teaching
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................9,782
Emergency Medicine Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for research  in  the M edical School................................................40,512
Exxon Company, U.S.A., Houston, Texas
for the Exxon Corporation Fellowship in the School of Business Administration.........5,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering, and for the Tauber Manufacturing
Institute in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering......78,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................77,500
Samuel and Jean Frankel Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............7,500
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Stanley D. Frankel Entrepreneurship Endowment in the School of Business
Administration, for the Frankel Fellowships in Jewish Communal Service in the
School of Social Work; and for the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in
Rabbinic Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................58,500
Brian J. French, Sheboygan, Wisconsin
3,900 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center,
and for the Mary Lou Willard French Professorship in the School of Nursing......... 190,394
David J. French, Mequon, Wisconsin
4,400 shares of State Street Corporation and 1,170 shares of Tellabs, Inc., common stock
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center,
and for the Mary Lou Willard French Professorship in the School of Nursing......... 306,568
James L. French, Sheboygan, Wisconsin
9,900 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center,
and for the Mary Lou Willard French Professorship in the School of Nursing......... 961,488
Jeanna L. French, Mound, Minnesota
4,000 shares of State Street Corporation and
1,530 shares of Tellabs, Inc., common stock
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center,
and for the Mary Lou Willard French Professorship in the School of Nursing......... 307,176
Frederick W. Gehring, Ann Arbor
1,275 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Frederick W. and Lois B. Gehring Professorship in Mathematics, College
of Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................... 82,259


59




September Meeting, 1997


Michael E. Gellert Trust
for the University  M usical Society................................................. 5,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering..................... 6,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for employee matching gifts..................................................... 55,583
Althea A. Georges, West Bloomfield
for the Modern Greek Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 5,000
Byron Gerson, Franklin
for the State  of Israel Bonds Fund................................................ 20,000
William M. Gibson, Evans, Georgia
for the Helen B. Gibson Scholarship in the College of Engineering.................... 10,000
Thomas M. Graber, Evanston, Illinois
3,017 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Thomas M. Graber Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the School of Dentistry................................. 216,718
Robert C. Graham, Harbor Springs
382 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for the Graham Endowment Fund in Manufacturing in the College of Engineering...... 15,722
Great Lakes Performing Artist Association, Ann Arbor
for the Women's Research Fund in the Medical School.............................. 6,000
Greater Detroit Chamber of Commerce, Detroit
for the Detroit Compact Award Fund.............................................. 28,500
Irwin and Bethea Green Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 7,500
Guardian Industries Corporation, Auburn Hills
25,000 shares of Orbotech common stock
for the Sam Wyly Hall Fund and the William Davidson Institute in the
School of Business Administration............................................. 1,087,500
Marian E. Harris, Lakewood, New Jersey
for the James E. Harris Chemistry Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.................................................................... 5,000
Hewlett Packard Financial Services Center, Colorado Springs, Colorado
for the 1994 Summer Engineering Academy Program Fund in the
College  of Engineering..........................................................  5,000
Hoover Foundation, Glencoe, Illinois
for the H. Earl Hoover Endowment in the College of Engineering................... 750,000
Hosiden and Philips Display Corporation, Kobe-City, Japan
for research  in  the College of Engineering......................................... 22,433
Eu-Phang and Chih H. Hsu Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Eu-Phang and C. H. Hsu Endowment in the College of Pharmacy.............. 10,000
Marion Hughes Estate
for the Gwyn M. Hughes Memorial Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................ 50,000
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for fellowships in the College of Engineering....................................... 11,850
Instrumentation Laboratory, Ann Arbor
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 25,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Intel Foundation Graduate Fellowship and the Women in
Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering.................................... 38,000
Janssen Pharmaceutical Research Foundation, Titusville, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 29,350
Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in Rabbinic Literature in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for the Sepphoris Exhibition
Fund in the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology........................................ 45,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research,
and  for employee matching  gifts.................................................. 81,325
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for WUOM/WVGR.............................................................. 75,000
Cis Maisel Kellman Trust
900 shares of Sun Trust Bank and
350 shares of EMC Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............ 71,081


60




September Meeting, 1997


W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Kellogg Public Policy Fellowship in the School of Public Policy,
for support in the School of Information, the Center for the Education of Women
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for employee matching gifts.... 423,008
Leslie Kish Trust
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research................... 10,000
Dimitri Kosacheff, New Boston
700 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for the Kosachef Scholarship..................................................... 36,400
Kroger Company of Michigan, Livonia
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 6,000
Herbert H. Lee Endowment Trust
for the Herbert H. Lee Scholarship...............................................15,882
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health............................ 17,280
Timothy D. Leuliette, Bloomfield Hills
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................................. 5,000
Lewis Unitrust, Washington, DC
for the Frances and Sydney Lewis Visiting Leaders Program in the Center for
the Education  of Women....................................... 18,060
Libbey-Owens-Ford Company, Toledo, Ohio
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 15,000
Charles C. S. Ling, Pottsville, Pennsylvania
for the Vee Ling Edwards Memorial Fundin the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts............................................................ 10,000
Daniel E. Lipschutz, Ann Arbor
for the Susan Lipschutz Graduate Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate  Studies.............................................................. 5,000
Ruth Lobdell Charitable Foundation, Clayton, Georgia
for the Ruth Lobdell Scholarship...............................................  185,000
Lockheed Martin Corporation, Bethesda, Maryland
for  em ployee m atching  gifts....................................................... 9,100
Lord Corporation, Erie, Pennsylvania
for aerospace engineering support in the College of Engineering...................... 16,500
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the History of Art Department in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 30,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 100,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 16,662
Frederick C. Matthaei, Jr., Birmingham
795 shares of Amgen, Inc., common stock
for the Class of 1947 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering................... 48,743
Mrs. Robert H. McPherson, Carlisle, Pennsylvania
530 shares of First of America Bankcorp common stock
for civil engineering support in the College of Engineering........................... 28,653
Merck & Company, Inc., Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy........................................... 48,000
Michigan Heart and Vascular Institute, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School..................... 5,000
Ola B. Middlesworth Trust
for  W FU M -TV................................................................. 63,045
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................... 7,500
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
for the Clements Library........................................................ 25,000
Violet Gay Most Estate
for student aid...............................................................  240,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for W UOM/WVGR.............................................................. 75,000
Munn Foundation, Inc., Steamboat Springs, Colorado
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................10,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research  in  the M edical School................................................13,781
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  104,712


61




September Meeting, 1997


National Glaucoma Research, Rockville, Maryland
for research in the Medical School................................................. 6,250
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 10,000
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School................................................29,452
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School................................................49,000
National Starch and Chemical Foundation, Inc., Bridgewater, New Jersey
for the Macromolecular Research Center in the College of Engineering................. 6,500
Arnold M. Nemirow, Greenville, South Carolina
for the Benjamin Nemirow Endowed Scholarship in the Law School................. 100,000
New Venture Gear, Troy
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School.....................5,000
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Westmont, Illinois
for the Center for Excellence Fund in the School of Dentistry........................ 25,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for biology and mathematics research in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.............................................................     50,000
Parke-Davis & Company, Ann Arbor
for the Dejong Symposium in the Medical School................................... 10,000
Perceptron, Plymouth
for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice at the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn............................................................. 20,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health and for employee
m atching  gifts...............................................................  160,548
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Inc., Washington, DC
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 10,000
Philips International, B.V., Eindhoven, Netherlands
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 14,978
Gary L. Phillips, Washington, DC
for the Communicative Disorders Clinic............................................ 5,000
Ward L. Quaal, Chicago, Illinois
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 5,000
Radiological Society of North America, R & E, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School................................................. 5,000
Lucile J. Raisch, Menlo Park, California
748 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Arthur Raisch Memorial Scholarship in the Law School....................... 31,713
Ramapo Trust, New York, New York
for research in the Institute of Gerontology........................................ 49,120
M. Jean Rich Estate
for support in the College of Engineering, and for the Bentley Historical Library........ 40,000
John 0. Robertson, Clayton, Georgia
5,353 shares of various corporate common stock
for the John 0. Robertson Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the Ruth Lobdell Endowed Scholarship................................... 93,286
Jack Roth Charitable Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Jack Roth Scholarship in the Department of Athletics......................... 60,000
Rudolph/Libbe/Inc., Walbridge, Ohio
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......... 40,000
Margery H. Ruth, Sun City, Arizona
848 shares of Household International, Inc., common stock
for the J. Griswold and Margery H. Ruth Endowment, the Ruth Research Fellow
and the Ruth Summer Research Award Funds in the Medical School................ 100,753
Schering-Plough Research Institute, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School................................................. 7,000
Schlumberger Dowell, Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in
the College of Engineering....................................................... 20,000
Charles and Lynn Schusterman Family Foundation, Tulsa, Oklahoma
for Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 5,000
David T. Shelby, Winnetka, Illinois
1,400 shares of General Growth Properties common stock and a cash gift
for support in the School of Business Administration................................50,000


62




September Meeting, 1997


Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
5,500 shares of various corporate common stock and two bonds
for support in the School of Music, and for the Donald R. Shepherd Charitable
Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Department of Athletics..... 295,650
Marion C. Siney, Cleveland, Ohio
1,548 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Marion C. Siney Endowment in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 47,491
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 35,000
SmithKline Beecham Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for employee  matching  gifts......................................................20,825
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the School of Dentistry............................................ 21,112
M. Smucker Company, Orrville, Ohio
for the J. M. Smucker Company Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts..................................................5,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education.......................................... 435,490
John P. Stefan Estate
6,472 shares of various corporate common stock, one bond and a cash gift
for the Lather Stefan Scholarship............................................... 455,924
Alice A. Stoddard Irrevocable Trust
for the Alice A. Stoddard Scholarship in the Medical School.......................... 10,159
Charles V. Thornton III, San Francisco, California
398 shares of Western Bancorp common stock for support of the Law School........... 13,134
Tourette Syndrome Association, Bayside, New York
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 12,195
University of Michigan Orthopaedic Alumni Society, Ann Arbor
for support in  the M edical School.................................................. 5,000
Unocal Corporation, Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in
the  College  of Engineering....................................................... 20,000
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics........................ 5,000
L. Vad Technology, Inc., Detroit
for research  in  the School of Public Health.......................................... 9,000
Hans W. Vahlteich Estate
for the Ella McCollum Vahlteich Research Fund in the Medical School and
for the Ella and Hans Vahlteich Research Fund in the College of Pharmacy............ 58,647
D. Craig Valassis, Orchard Lake
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School.................... 10,000
Paula French Van Akkeren, Sheboygan, Wisconsin
4,710 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, and
for the Mary Lou Willard French Professorship in the School of Nursing............. 300,676
Varsity Ford, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
George A. Vinyard, Skokie, Illinois
for support of the  Law   School..................................................... 5,000
Bob Vizas, Berkeley, California
for the Vizas Family Dean's Merit Scholarship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 48,300
Michael A. Vlasic, Bloomfield Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund.................................... 10,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School, and for chemistry support in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts...............................................  100,000
Erma L. Warren Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................. 262,836
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering and the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies...................................................... 60,618
R. Jamison Williams, Bloomfield Hills
11,050 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the R. Jamison and Betty Williams Professorship in the College of
Engineering, and for support in the Medical School............................... 680,835


63




September Meeting, 1997


William F. Wolff III, New York, New York
1,350 shares of Westinghouse Electric common stock
for the Phyllis and William Wolff Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....32,822
Xerox Corporation U.S.A., Rochester, New York
for the Joel D. Tauber Endowments in the School of Business Administration
and  the  College of Engineering...................................................50,000
Samuel Zell Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sam Zell Dean's Tactical Fund in the Law School.......................... 100,000
African American Alumni Council/Alumni Association of the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship.........................................  10,000
Jay Alix, Southfield
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.............................................13,950
American Society for Quality Control, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the National Quality Research Center in the School of Business Administration..... 50,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for student aid and the Under-Represented Students Scholarship in the School
of Business Administration, and for the Minority Engineering Program in the
College  of Engineering.......................................................... 20,000
ARCO Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................... 7,850
Nancy Azzam, Golden Valley, Minnesota
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 5,000
Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Guido A. Binda Exhibit and Lecture Fund in the College of Architecture and
U rban   Planning................................................................ 30,000
Jeanne L. Bond, Rockford
for the Opal and George Kress and Joanne May Kress Endowed Research Fund in
the  M edical School.............................................................. 15,000
David A. Brandon Foundation, Plymouth
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics............................ 20,000
Edward Bransilver, Naples, Florida
1,650 shares of Merrill Lynch common stock
for the Edward Bransilver Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the  Law   School......................................................  103,280
Will M. Caldwell, Bloomfield Hills
1,200 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for the Hill Auditorium  Restoration  Fund.......................................... 49,350
Chase Manhattan Bank Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts......................................................  14,930
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for support in the Schools of Engineering
and Management at the University of Michigan-Dearborn......................... 119,000
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for student aid in the School of Business Administration............................. 11,400
Marilyn D. Cucchiara Trust and Estate
for the Plastic Surgery Research and Teaching Fund in the Medical School.............75,684
Russell E. Curtice, Lansdowne, Pennsylvania
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................5,000
Peter C. Dendrinos, Frankfort
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics....................5,000
Detroit Red Wing Alumni Association, Inc., Detroit
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center..............................................5,000
DowElanco, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Models of Sensory and Motor Neuropathies Fund in the School of
Public  H ealth................................................................  150,000
Electronic Data Systems, Plano, Texas
for the Student Affairs Development Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn......8,000
Bonnie J. Foister Trust
for the Harry W. and Ruth MacDuff Memorial Scholarship, Department
of A thletics..................................................................  150,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice in the School of
Engineering, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................................. 48,000
Forest Health Services Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society................................................ 10,000


64




September Meeting, 1997


Ralph W. Garlick, Grand Rapids
500 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock
for ice hockey support and the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the
Departm ent of Athletics......................................................... 27,438
Richard C. Gerstenberg, Bloomfield Hills
142 shares of Procter & Gamble common stock
for the Richard C. Gerstenberg Endowed Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration......................................................... 19,933
Robert M. Ginn, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 5,000
Gordon I. Ginsberg, Bloomfield Hills
1,232 shares of Newcor, Inc., common stock
for the John W. Reed Scholarship, Law School....................................... 11,165
Dudley J. Godfrey, Jr., 1996 Trust, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School................................ 10,000
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn........... 5,000
Rowena P. Hafer Estate
for the Hazen A. and Rowena P. Hafer Scholarship.................................. 19,000
Hai-Am Art and Science Scholarship Foundation, Seoul, Korea
for the Korean Studies Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 10,000
Harness, Dickey & Pierce, P.L.C., Troy
for W U OM /W VGR............................................................... 5,230
Mrs. J. Ira Harris, Palm Beach, Florida
for the John Stephenson Professorship, the John W. Sweetland Professorship
in International Economics and the Dean's Distinguished Professorship in
Humanities, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................... 600,000
Samuel D. Harris Fund, Boston Massachusetts
for the Pediatric Dental Clinic Renovation Fund in the School of Dentistry........... 125,000
William C. Hartman, Naples, Florida
100 shares of Merck & Company common stock
for support of the  Law   School.................................................... 10,128
Howard S. Holmes, Ann Arbor
for the Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center in the College of Engineering.............. 25,000
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for the Pediatric Dentistry Program in the School of Dentistry..................... 100,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for electrical and computer engineering fellowships, and minority and female
scholarships in the College of Engineering......................................... 78,600
John H. Kellogg Estate
for the John H. Kellogg Genetics Fund in the Medical School......................... 15,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Schools of Information and Public Health...................... 2,787,342
Ton Koot, Montfoot, Netherlands
for the Isadore Lampe Professorship in the Medical School........................... 10,000
Ruth Lobdell Charitable Foundation, Dillard, Georgia
for the  Ruth  Lobdell Scholarship................................................. 16,167
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 100,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the School of Education..........................................  305,000
David R. MacDonald, Bethesda, Maryland
for support of the Law School................................... 5,000
Thomas S. Maentz, Bloomfield Village
for support in the Department of Athletics................................... 50,000
Charles K. Marquis, New York, New York
for support of the Law School................................... 5,000
McGraw Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration................... 5,000
Helen L. McKelvey Trust
for support in the Schools of Nursing and Natural Resources and Environment......... 29,578
Reta P. McOmber Estate
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................... 172,301
Merry Mary Charitable Foundation, Beverly Hills, California
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 5,000


65




September Meeting, 1997


Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Graduate Materials Science
Fellowship in the College of Engineering.......................................... 10,000
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.........................................................25,000
Mott Children's Health Center, Flint
for the Pediatric Dentistry Program in the School of Dentistry..................... 100,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 216,355
Leonard M. Newman, Grand Rapids
for the Leonard and Eileen Newman Fundin the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts.................................................................... 5,000
John F. and Ann L. Nickoll CDF of the Jewish Community Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for support of the  Law  School.................................................... 11,000
Nike, Inc., Beaverton, Oregon
for the Nike Athletic Scholarship for Women and the Nike Women's
Basketball Scholarship, Department of Athletics, for the Sports Reporting
Fellowship, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, and for the
Chris Webber/Nike Foundation Scholarship........................................ 60,000
John M. Olson Company, St. Clair Shores
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse at the University of
M ichigan-D earborn............................................................. 20,000
William P. O'Neill, Washington, DC
for  support of the  Law   School..................................................... 5,000
Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................... 5,640
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for employee  matching  gifts...................................................... 57,956
John A. Pursley, Lock Haven, Pennsylvania
for the John A. Pursley Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit
of the  College  of Engineering...................................................... 5,000
Ward L. Quaal, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
Raytech Corporation, Crawfordsville, Indiana
for research  in the College of Engineering......................................... 78,000
Ricardo North American, Inc., Burr Ridge, Illinois
for research  in  College of Engineering............................................. 30,000
John 0. Robertson, Clayton, Georgia
for the John 0. Robertson Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the Ruth Lobdell Endowed Scholarship........................... 31,000
Irwin J. Robinson, Bronx, New York
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 15,000
Rouge Steel Company, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane at the University of
M ichigan-D earborn.............................................................   20,000
Satech, Kirkland, Washington
for research in the Center for Ergonomics, College of Engineering..................... 5,000
Margaret A. Shopkin Estate
for scholarships in the School of Public Health, in memory of John Sundwell........... 50,000
Alva Gordon Sink, Aml Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund.......................................... 10,000
Herbert Sloan, Jr., Trust
for the University Musical Society, the University Hospitals and for the Ann Arbor
Flower Show presented by the Matthaei Botanical Gardens........................... 7,920
Gordon C. Snyder, Seattle, Washington
for the Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Loyal Crew Fund in the
College  of Engineering............................................................ 5,000
Mary C. and Perry F. Spencer Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for scholarships in  the Medical School............................................. 10,000
Joseph F. Tetlak, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics........................ 5,000
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for men's basketball support and the University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor
Scholarship in the Department of Athletics........................................   10,070


66




September Meeting, 1997


University of Michigan Club of Flint, Flint
for the University of Michigan Club of Greater Flint Scholarship and other
support in  the Department of Athletics............................................. 6,000
USX Foundation, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for employee matching gifts................................................... 11,254
Van Vlack Family Charitable Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Van Vlack Family Fund in the College of Engineering....................... 250,000
Volvo of America Corporation, Rockleigh, New Jersey
for undergraduate student aid....................................................25,000
Robert J. White, Los Angeles, California
for support of the Law School.................................................  5,000
Howard L. Wikel, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School and for the Bob
Ufer Memorial Fund............................................................. 5,210
Matilda R. Wilson Fund, Detroit
for the Institute for Human Adjustment, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.. 10,000
A P Parts International, Toledo, Ohio
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Summer Projects Fund in the School of
Business Administration and the College of Engineering............................  7,000
Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Robert B. Aikens, Troy
for the Ann and Robert B. Aikens Endowment in the Law School..................... 18,000
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for employee  matching  gifts....................................................... 6,200
Marjorie 0. Alpern, Bloomfield Hills
1,200 shares of Philip Morris Companies, Inc., common stock
for the Conservatory at the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts................................................. 53,100
Alro Steel Corporation, Jackson
for the Alvin Glick Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.............. 250,000
Aluminum Company of America Headquarters Office, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Summer Projects Fund in the School
of Business Administration and the College of Engineering.......................... 25,000
American Automobile Manufacturers Association, Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute................ 201,250
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts and the Biophysics Research Division......................................... 60,929
American Chemical Society, Washington, DC
for research in the Medical School and the Colleges of Engineering and Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................ 70,000
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in  the M edical School................................................. 14,400
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 131,780
American Society for Quality Control, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the National Quality Research Center in the School of Business Administration..... 50,000
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for research in the Medical School, and for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......... 66,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Amoco Foundation Fellowships and the Chemical Engineering Undergraduate
Scholarship in the College of Engineering, and for employee matching gifts............ 37,385
Arthur Andersen & Company Foundation, Detroit
for employee  matching  gifts...................................................... 78,414
Anonymous Donor
for endowment support in the Law  School......................................... 10,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research................... 21,750
Anonymous Donor
for endowment support in the School of Education................................... 5,000
Anonymous Donor
for endowment support in the School of Education................................... 5,000


67




September Meeting, 1997


Robert C. Armbruster, Chicago, Illinois
200 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 13,050
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School............................................... 9,625
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School............................................... 9,625
Ashland, Inc., Ashland, Kentucky
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
Association Frangois-Xavier Bagnoud, Zug, Switzerland
for the Frangois-Xavier Bagnoud Professorship of Aerospace Engineering in the
College  of Engineering.......................................................  1,200,000
Astra USA, Inc., Westborough, Massachusetts
for support in  the  M edical School................................................. 10,000
Autism Society of America, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School................................................   15,000
Autospect, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering.......................................... 5,000
Dana Spicer Axle, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for research in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 12,300
Dorothy M. Baker, Flint
for the McInally Fund in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Albuquerque, New Mexico
for the Nephrology Fellows Fund and other support in the Medical School............. 21,600
BCBSM Foundation, Detroit
for research  in  the M edical School................................................. 9.864
Cynthia Reavis Berkshire, Chicago, Illinois
for the Cynthia R. and Alan G. Berkshire Endowed Scholarship in the College of
Architecture and Urban  Planning................................................. 7,500
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
for the Drs. Jack L. and Barbara A. Berman Merit Scholarship in the Medical School..... 5,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
350 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock
for the Quantitative Measurement Fund in the College of Engineering, and
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 23,778
Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Award Fund in the College of
Architecture and Urban  Planning................................................ 15,000
Bloomfield Township Fire Department, Bloomfield Hills
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund, and the Trauma Burn
Center Firefighter's Fund in the Medical School..................................... 5,000
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for the Boeing Company Faculty Support Fund in the College of Engineering, and
for employee  matching  gifts....................................................  602,513
Boeing Defense & Space Group, Seattle, Washington
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Summer Projects Fund in the School
of Business Administration and the College of Engineering.......................... 13,000
Robert Bosch Company, Reutlingen, Germany
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
M. Lelyn Branin Estate
for research  in  the M edical School................................................. 5,000
Carl A. Brauer, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the support in the College of Engineering, and for the University Musical Society....... 5,100
British Telecommunications PLC., London, England
for the Global Learning Study Fund in the School of Business Administration........ 370,141
James R. Browne, Houston, Texas
for tax policy research in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Kenneth A. Buckfire, New York, New York
356 shares of Lehman Brothers Holding, Inc., common stock
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the University Library..... 13,862
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Morrisville, North Carolina
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 85,000
Leona I. Bush Estate
for research  in  the M edical School................................................. 7,020


68




September Meeting, 1997


Marjorie Van Eenam Butcher, West Hartford, Connecticut
508 shares of Vivra, Inc., common stock
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and   the   Arts............................................................ 17,939
Mrs. Martin L. Butzel, Bloomfield Hills
500 shares of TCI Satellite Entertainment common stock and a cash gift
for the Hill Auditorium   Restoration  Fund...........................................5,345
Cancer Research Institute, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School................................................. 7,375
John Carver, Brighton
for the Matthaei Botanical Garden's Environmental and Global Change Education
Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 10,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the School of Social Work..........................................50,000
William C. Cassebaum, Bangor, Pennsylvania
for support of the Law  School....................................................5,000
Emily W. Caverly Revocable Living Trust
for the Seward L. Horner/Rodkey Fund in the School of Business Administration....... 15,000
Steven B. Chameides, Bethesda, Maryland
for support of the Law School......................................... 5,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School................................................15,000
Arthur H. Clark Estate
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund.................................... 11,898
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
1,000 shares of Quanex Corporation and
400 shares of Cooper Industries, Inc., common stock
for the Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Scholarship in the School of Business Administration,
for the Pauline M. Conger Scholarship, and for the University Library and
M usical Society..................................................................   49,938
Conoco, Inc., Ponca City, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media
in  the  College  of Engineering.................................................... 20,000
Consumers Power Foundation, Jackson
for the Corporate Environmental Management Program, School of
Business Adm inistration........................................................ 20,000
Coopers & Lybrand, Detroit
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
Coopers & Lybrand Foundation, New York, New York
for employee m atching  gifts...................................................... 16,835
Cordelia Corporation, Reno, Nevada
for the Women's Research Gift Fund in the Medical School........................... 5,000
Corning Incorporated Foundation, Corning, New York
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 15,000
Douglas D. Crary, Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society................................................. 5,000
Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
for the Culpeper Bioethics Faculty Development Program in the Medical School........ 70,500
Cushman & Wakefield of California, Inc., San Francisco, California
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 26,850
Daimler Benz, Ulm, Germany
for the research in the College of Engineering...................................... 30,000
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
Helen Curtis Davis Estate
for support of the University of Michigan........................................  195,091
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute.......................................... 5,000
Detroit Association of University of Michigan Women, Wyandotte
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship............................................... 7,000
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical School,
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment; and for the
C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............................. 34,400


69




September Meeting, 1997


John H. DeYoung, Woodstown, New Jersey
2,000 shares of Motorola, Inc., common stock
for the Class of 1936 Engineer's Fund in the College of Engineering................. 134,250
Digital Equipment Corporation, Shrewsbury, Massachusetts
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Fund in the College
of  Engineering................................................................. 25,000
Doberman Pinscher Foundation of America, Inc., West Hartford, Connecticut
for research  in  the  Medical School................................................. 5,000
Floyd D. Donelson Estate
for the Dean's Faculty Award Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts...................................................................24,000
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for electrical engineering and computer science support in the College
of Engineering................................................................  34,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for support in the Medical School, for the University of Michigan-Dearborn,
for the Chemical Sciences Facilities Building in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts; and for employee matching gifts............................ 134,371
Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research and the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Award Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts................................................. 65,000
Dale L. Dykema, Newport Beach, California
for the Dale L. Dykema Professorship in the School of Business Administration....... 200,000
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Center for Group Dynamics in the Institute for Social Research................ 10,000
Electronic Data Systems, Plano, Texas
for student aid in the School of Business Administration, and for the Solar Car
Project Fund in the College of Engineering........................................ 21,317
Edward W. Elliott, Jr., Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the School of Management at the University of Michigan-Dearborn..... 100,200
Kevin R. J. Ellwood, Ann Arbor
for the Helen B. Gibson Scholarship in the College of Engineering..................... 5,000
Endodontic Associates Professional Corporation, Bloomfield Township
for support in  the School of Dentistry.............................................. 6,000
Ernst & Young Foundation, New York, New York
for employee m atching  gifts...................................................... 64,930
John D. Evans Foundation, Middleburg, Virginia
5,000 shares of SBC Communications, Inc., common stock
for the John  D. Evans Fund....................................................  299,375
Exxon Education Foundation, Irving, Texas
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering and for employee
m atching  gifts................................................................. 62,380
Bonnie J. Foister Trust
for the Harry W. and Ruth MacDuff Memorial Scholarship in the
Departm ent of Athletics.......................................................  100,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research and other support in the College of Engineering and
for the Richard E. Czarnecki Accounting Education Fund in the School
of Management, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............................... 37,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Business Administration............................... 75,000
Forest Health Services Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 7,840
Freudenberg-NOK, Plymouth
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
Edward P. Frohlich, Grosse Pointe Farms
76 shares of Reynolds Metals Company common stock and a cash gift
for support of the Law School, and for the University Musical Society..................5,255
Genentech Foundation for Growth & Development, Charlottesville, Virginia
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 20,000
General Cable Corporation, Highland Heights, Kentucky
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Summer Projects Fund in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering.................... 13,000
General Dynamics, Falls Church, Virginia
for the James R. Mellor Professorship in the College of Engineering................. 600,000
General Electric Company Lighting Business Group, East Cleveland, Ohio
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute in the College of Engineering................. 20,000


70




September Meeting, 1997


General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for gifts pending designation, and for employee matching gifts...................... 164,064
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Fund and other
support in  the College of Engineering.............................................35,000
Genesee Area Focus Council, Inc., Flint
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute....... 10,000
Charles H. Gershenson Trust
for the Charles H. Gershenson Piano Fund in the School of Music..................... 85,971
Ralph J. Gerson, Auburn Hills
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Adm inistration.......................................................... 5,000
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute
and  for employee matching  gifts................................................... 7,875
G. R. Group, Inc., Bowling Green, Ohio
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship............................................ 7,500
Jeffry N. Grabel, Albertson, New York
for support of the Law School.................................................... 5,000
John A. and E. Madonna Graham Trust
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 75,000
Wallace D. Grant, Plymouth
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 6,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for the Center for Group Dynamics in the Institute for Social Research................ 50,000
Frances Greer, Ann Arbor
for the Frances Greer Scholarship in Voice and other support in the School
of Music, for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and for the University Musical Society......................... 27,280
Robert A. Gregg, Woodbridge, Connecticut
114 shares of TransAmerica Corporation common stock
for the W. E. Bachmann Memorial Lecture Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................ 10,182
Douglas L. Grill Estate
for the Class of 1936 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering, and
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan................................ 7,130
Olive Cox Gust Estate
for the Rockwell T. Gust Advocacy Fund in the Law School.......................... 10,000
Halliburton Services, Duncan, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in
the  College  of Engineering....................................................... 20,000
Jane S. Handley, Johns Island, South Carolina
9,346 shares of various corporate common stocks
for the Jane S. Handley Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Law  School.......................................  300,290
Iverna Harrington Estate
for support of the University of Michigan........................................  120,000
David L. Hartmann, Ann Arbor
385 shares of Cabletron Systems common stock
for the Jan and David Hartmann Athletic Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.....17,253
Raymond C. Hauser Estate
for support in the College of Engineering..........................................  37,500
Hella KG, Hueck & Company, Lippstadt, Germany
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 14,991
Henshel Foundation, Scarsdale, New York
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the University Library.....5,000
John and Rose Herman Foundation, Grand Rapids
for Judaic studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............5,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for the Center for Population Planning in the School of Public Health, and for
the Population Studies Center in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 115,000
Hewlett-Packard Company, Colorado Springs, Colorado
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Summer Projects Fund in the School of
Business Administration and the College of Engineering, and for automotive
transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................20,500
Richard L. Hirsch Foundation, New York, New York
for the building fund in the Division of Kinesiology.................................10,000


71




September Meeting, 1997


Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for support in the Medical School............................................ 10,800
Robert L. Hooker, Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund in the School of Business Administration... 5,000
Hosiden and Philips Display Corporation, Kobe-City, Japan
for research  in the College of Engineering......................................... 22,433
Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, Washington, DC
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation Research Institute..... 10,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 10,800
Intevep, S.A., Los Teques, Venezuela
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
College  of Engineering..........................................................20,000
Louise Ganiard Johnson, Lebanon, New Hampshire
20,346 shares of various corporate common stock, twenty-two bonds and a cash gift
for the G. Lawton Johnson and the Janine Johnson Weins Charitable Remainder
Unitrust Funds for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering.............. 2,000,000
Marion L. Johnson Estate
for the Kenneth T. and Marion L. Johnson Law School Library Fund in the
Law   School..................................................................  235,303
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine, Public Health and Social Work, for the
Institutes of Gerontology and Social Research; for the Substance Abuse Center,
and  for employee matching  gifts................................................  539,477
Thomas C. Jones, Bloomfield, Connecticut
300 shares of NAC Re Corporation common stock
for the Jane M. and Chester R. Jones Scholarship in the School of
Business Adm inistration........................................................ 14,250
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 34,249
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek,
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund and for employee
m atching  gifts.................................................................. 5,600
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Historical Center for Health Sciences in the Medical School, for the
Center for Political Studies in the Institute for Social Research; for research
at the University of Michigan-Flint, and for employee matching gifts................ 348,922
James A. Kendall, Midland
145 shares of Chemical Financial Corporation common stock
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School................................. 5,021
Harold W. Keopka Estate
for support in  the College of Engineering........................................... 7,500
KeyCorp, Toledo, Ohio
for student aid in the School of Business Administration and for the Comprehensive
Cancer  Center.................................................................. 8,500
John E. King, Jr. Trust
for the George W. Roby Research Fund in the Medical School...................... 675,000
William C. Knicely Estate
for the William C. Knicely Scholarship in the School of Music...................... 148,275
Koito Manufacturing Company, Shimizu-Shi, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 15,000
Gerald P. Kolb, Alden
200 shares of Walgreen common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 10,175
KPMG Peat Marwick Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
for the KPMG Tax Policy Research Conference in the School of Business
Administration, and for employee matching gifts................................... 20,050
Konrad R. Kruger, Old Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Susan M. Kruger Scholarship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........  5,000
Edward H. Lerchen, Birmingham
500 shares of Rockwell International common stock
for the Edward H. Lerchen Donor Pooled Income Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the School of Business Administration..................... 29,906
Alexis C. Leuchtman Estate
for the Frances Boucher Leuchtman Memorial Scholarship.......................... 10,000


72




September Meeting, 1997


Michael and Patricia Levine Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Federation
of Washtenaw County, Ann Arbor
for the  University  Musical Society................................................. 5,000
David B. Lewis, Detroit
87 shares of Conrail, Inc., common stock
for the Wade H. McCree Professorship in the Law School............................. 9,989
Lewis Unitrust, Washington, DC
for the Frances and Sydney Lewis Visiting Leaders Program in the Center for
the Education of Women................................................ 50,173
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research................... 22,374
Life Trends, Inc., Vero Beach, Florida
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research................... 10,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research and other support in the Medical School................................. 6,700
Agnes Linsley Estate
for Camp Michigania............................................................ 20,000
Gillson Longenbaugh Foundation, Bellaire, Texas
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................ 38,000
Nigel J. Lovett, Riverside, Connecticut
for scholarships in the College of Engineering...................................... 10,000
LTV Steel Company, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the School of Public Policy........................................... 5,000
Lucent Technologies Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts.......................................................  8,163
Lupus Foundations of America, Inc., Washington, DC
for research  in  the Medical School................................................. 7,500
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 100,000
Ruth MacDuff Trust
for the Harry W. and Ruth MacDuff Memorial Scholarship in the
Departm ent of Athletics......................................................  100,000
Managed Resources, Inc., Long Beach, California
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 22,500
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for biology research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts................. 10,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research  in  the M edical School................................................. 7,500
Masco Corporation, Taylor
for the Richard E. Czarnecki Accounting Education Fund in the School of
Management, the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................. 10,000
Masco Tech, Inc., Taylor
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute
and  for employee matching  gifts.................................................. 10,000
Mazda Great Lakes, Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund in the School of Business Administration... 5,000
Robert S. McCormick, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
255 shares of Unicom Corporation common stock
for support of the Law   School..................................................... 5,658
McGregor Fund, Detroit
for the building fund in the School of Social Work................................... 70,000
MediaOne Midwest Region, Lansing
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................. 10,000
Meister Family Trust
for the Susan Blanch Meister Endowed Fund in the School of Nursing................. 20,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies................. 250,000
Merck Company Foundation, Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for the Merck Fellows in Pharmaceutics Fund in the College of Pharmacy
and  for employee  matching  gifts.................................................. 62,650
David J. Metzger, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the David J. and Carole N. Metzger Endowed Scholarship in the College
of Architecture and  Urban  Planning............................................... 5,000
Michigan Partnership to Prevent Gun Violence, Haslett
for research  in the School of Public Health......................................... 16,082
Microwave Components Enterprises, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in the College of Engineering......................................... 10,000


73




September Meeting, 1997


Midwest Eye-Banks and Transplantation Center, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School................................................ 14,989
Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone, Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.......................5,400
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Chemical Engineering Undergraduate Scholarship and other support
in the College of Engineering, and for automotive transportation research in
the Transportation Research Institute............................................ 57,500
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.......................................................6,995
Marsha and Jeffrey H. Miro Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the University Library....................................................... 25,000
Mobil Foundation, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in
the College of Engineering, and for employee matching gifts......................... 22,000
Monroe Street Journal, Ann Arbor
for the Habitat for Humanity Program in the School Business Administration.......... 5,000
Monsanto Fund, St. Louis, Missouri
for employee  m atching  gifts......................................................14,860
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for research in the Schools of Education and Social Work.......................... 332,663
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts................................................................  116,489
National Kidney Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School................................ 6,400
NBD Bancorp Inc., Detroit
for employee  m atching  gifts......................................................  9,843
Wencel A. Neumann, Jr., Clemson, South Carolina
3,000 shares of Hubbell, Inc., common stock
for the Ruth Judson Neumann Scholarship in the School of Nursing................ 135,563
Paul T. Niland, Petoskey
for the Patrick J. Niland Memorial Lectureship Fund in the Medical School............ 10,000
Nippondenso Manufacturing USA, Inc., Battle Creek
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 15,000
North American Lighting, Inc., Farmington Hills
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute................... 7,500
O'Connor, DeGrazia & Tamm, P.C., Bloomfield Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Ooida, Grain Valley, Missouri
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation Research Institute...... 5,000
Osram Sylvania, Inc., Danvers, Massachusetts
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 15,000
Otis Elevator, Farmington, Connecticut
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Owens & Minor, Plymouth
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Centes M. Papes, Chappaqua, New York
100 shares of General Electric common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 6,606
Donald H. Parsons, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Office for the Study of Private Equity Finance in the School of
Business Adm inistration.........................................................  25,000
Guy S. Peppiatt Family Trust
for the Paton Accounting Center in the School of Business Administration............. 99,094
Perrin Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for support in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts....................... 200,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research  in the School of Public Health.......................................  111,000
Pfizer, Inc. New York, New York
for support in the Medical School, and for employee matching gifts....................  10,450
Physical Medicine Research Foundation, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
for physical therapy support at the University of Michigan-Flint.......................8,161
Porter Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Burke E. Porter Foundation Scholarship in the College of Engineering.......... 10,000


74




September Meeting, 1997


L. Norris Post, Creedmoor, North Carolina
for the Nichols Arboretum Flowering Tree Fund in the School of Natural
Resources and Environment..................................................... 10,000
Prince Corporation, Holland
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the School of Dentistry and for the Procter & Gamble Endowed
Scholarship in Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering........................ 12,000
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration and the Colleges of
Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts; for Career Planning and
Placement support, and for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan......... 97,000
Dorothy D. Purdy Estate
for support in the School of Social Work.........................................  225,000
John A. Pursley, Lock Haven, Pennsylvania
for the John A. Pursley Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the College of Engineering............................................... 5,000
Walter R. Putnam Charitable Remainder Trust
for C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund....................................... 10,091
Alice H. Quigley Trust
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.................... 53,295
Radiological Society of North America R & E, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School................................................. 5,833
Frank G. Reeder, Wilmette, Illinois
500 shares of Tellabs, Inc., common stock
for support of the  Law  School.................................................... 25,031
Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Pharmacy, Inc., Collegeville, Pennsylvania
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.............................................. 5,000
Robb & Robb Attorneys at Law, Kansas City, Missouri
for support of the  Law   School.................................................... 10,000
James F. Sams, Bethesda, Maryland
4,100 shares of Concord EFS common stock
for the James and Betty Sams Fund in the Law School.............................. 97,225
Peter A. Schroeder, East Lansing
for the Chris Schroeder Graduate Scholarship and other support in the
School of M usic................................................................. 5,000
Sci Healthcare Group, Inc., Toledo, Ohio
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
G. D. Searle & Company, Chicago, Illinois
for support in  the M edical School.........................................   5,000
Tadd and Nancy Seitz Fund of the Ayco Charitable Foundation, Clifton Park, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 5,000
Claude E. Shannon Trust
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 10,000
Anand S. Sharangpani, Holland
for the Arati Sharangpani Memorial Fund......................................... 10,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
7,800 shares of New England Inverstment Companies L. P. common stock
for support in the Women's Athletic Scholarship in the Department of Athletics,
and for the Marching Band Fund and other support in the School of Music........... 260,750
Howard F. Sims, Detroit
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship........................................... 10,000
James R. Sitlington III, Glen Ellyn, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 15,000
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the School of Dentistry............................................ 21,112
Southern California Edison, Rosemead, California
for the Stephen E. Frank Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.......... 5,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Education........................................... 180,000
Standard Products Company, Dearborn
for support in the School of Art and Design........................................ 15,000
James C. Stanley, Ann Arbor
for the Lindenauer Vascular Research & Education Award in the Medical School........ 5,000
Stanley Electric Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 15,000


75




September Meeting, 1997


Peter O. Steiner, Ann Arbor
for the Peter O. Steiner Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts............................................................ 10,000
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust
for the Esther C. Stone Graduate Student Scholarship and other support at the
University of Michigan-Flint..................................................... 19,686
Stryker Corporation, Kalamazoo
for the Homer H. Stryker Orthopaedic Lecture Fund in the Medical School............. 6,500
Edward Surovell Company/Realtors, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society, and for WUOM/WVGR............................ 5,510
TAP Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Deerfield, Illinois
for the Urology Resident Education and Research Fund in the Medical School........... 5,000
Texas Instruments, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for electrical engineering and computer science support in the College of Engineering..... 50,000
Robert P. Tiernan, Walnut Creek, California
80 shares of BankAmerica Corporation common stock
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School................................. 5,363
Estelle Titiev, Ann Arbor
for the  University  M usical Society................................................. 5,000
Tomay, Inc., A Michigan Corporation, Southfield
for the Susan and Richard Rogel Scholarships in the Medical School, for support
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the Schools of Business
Administration, Music and Social Work, for the Hill Auditorium Restoration
Fund, and for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan.............. 1,250,000
Sinibaldo Tozzi, Grosse Pointe
100 shares of Dell Computer Corporation common stock
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 11,803
TRW Automotive Worldwide Sector, Cleveland, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
Union Pacific Foundation, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
for the MBA Peace Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration.............. 25,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, Inc., Washington, DC;
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 27,500
United Nations Fund for Population Activities, New York, New York
for sociology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 42,000
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................... 5,950
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Birmingham, Bloomfield Hills
for the Birmingham  Alumnae Club Scholarship...................................... 8,500
UPS Foundation, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the College of Engineering......................................... 15,000
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the
Clements Library........................................................ 9,695
USX Foundation, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for employee  m atching  gifts...................................................... 16,500
Valeo Automotive, Inc., Livonia
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 14,982
Laura R. Van Vlack, Portage
400 shares of Dun & Bradstreet common stock
for the Van Vlack Family Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 10,738
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for support in the Medical
School, and for research in the College of Pharmacy................................. 41,400
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts........................................... 7,617
Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri
for the Consortium for Graduate Study in Management Fund in the School
of Business Administration.......................................... 96,373
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for support in the Schools of Dentistry, Medicine and Music, for the C. S Mott
Children's Hospital, the Holden Perinatel Gift Fund, and for the University
M usical Society................................................................ 16,476
Robert B. Wessling, Los Angeles, California
for support of the  Law  School..................................................... 5,000
West Michigan Industrial Sales Company, Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................................... 10,000


76




September Meeting, 1997


Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the Medical School................................................ 70,665
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the School of Public Policy....................................... 130,000
Keith B. Wong DDS, MS and Patricia A. Soeters DDS, MS, PC, Okemos
for the Orthodontic Fund for Excellence in the School of Dentistry..................... 5,000
Woodbridge Group, Troy
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,000
World Health Organization, Geneva, Swizterland
for research in the School of Public Health......................................... 67,781
Wyeth Ayerst American Home Products Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School................................................ 11,400
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Scholarship in the Law School..................................... 50,000
Helen M. Ziegler Estate
for support in the Schools of Education and Medicine, for the Matthaei
Botanical Gardens and other support in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts; and for Michigan League and the University Musical Society........... 135,000
Roy H. Ziegler, Ann Arbor
2,000 shares of Quaker Oats Company common stock
for the Roy and Helen Ziegler Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.............. 81,000
Roy H. Ziegler Trust
for the Roy and Helen Ziegler Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.............. 75,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Tom Cummings, Ann Arbor
professional books and journals for the psychology department
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
25 binders and six volumes of items documenting Cambodian architecture for the history of art
department
Paul A. Adams, Flint
six periodical volumes of Plant Physiology and a book by Ratzsch for the University of MichiganFlint, Frances Willson Thompson Library
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
five manuscript items; for the Clements Library
Walker E. Fesmire, Flushing
accounting books and periodicals; for the University of Michigan-Flint, Frances Willson Thompson
Library
Mark C. Graves, Farmington Hills
609 volumes of various literature written in German for the University Library
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
four laserjet printers, one scan jet and various accessories for the School of Social Work
Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto, California
various HP computers, scanners and printers for the College of Engineering Career Resource Center
George T. Pierce, Rochester Hills
a manuscript written by George A. C. Barnett for the Clements Library
Constance Simmons, Ann Arbor
a rosewood desk and credenza with a marble top for the Office of the President
Tecnomatix Technologies, Inc., Novi
robcad computer aided production engineering software for the University of Michigan-Dearborn,
School of Engineering
UOP Research, Des Plaines, Illinois
various equipment for the Department of Chemistry
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Miguel Bizzotto, Onancock, Virginia          June Hall, Charlottesville, Virginia
Jack Brumbaugh, Fairhaven, Maryland          Dan Hertzson, Rochester, New York
De Boer Gallery, Ann Arbor                   Ginny Herzog, St. Louis Park, Minnesota
Michael Grove, Berkley, California           Robert Greenberg, Ann Arbor


77




September Meeting, 1997


Marita R. Inglehart, Ann Arbor           Robert M. Kren, Flushing
Joseph L. Rife, White Bear Lake, Minnesota  Arshavir A. C. McKertich, West Covina, California
Dorothy G. Davis, Flint                  Thomas Mobley, Grosse Pointe
Gary Dettling, Fort Gratiot              Gerald E. Ottenbreit, Jr., Southgate
Dupuis & Ryden, P.C., Flint              Physical Therapy Class of 1997, Flint
Enders Floral & Gifts, Inc., Capac       Ruth Scodel, Ann Arbor
Thomas N. Filson, Linden                 Susan Wolf Sternberg, Ann Arbor
Carole Harmon, Ann Arbor                 Nikoghos Tahmizyan, Pasadena, California
Alan H. Jones, Ann Arbor                 VG's Food Centers, Fenton
Grevork Kherlopian, Pasadena, California  Carolyn Worby, South Lyon
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
Personnel Actions/Personnel Reports.            President Bollinger called
the Regents' attention to the recommendations regarding Homer A. Neal,
vice president for research and former interim president. He noted that Vice
President Neal had decided to return to the faculty and work on the Atlas
Project, and that Acting Vice President Neidhardt had agreed to stay in the
post as interim vice president for research until such time as a permanent
replacement can be identified.
Provost Cantor submitted a number of personnel actions. Regent
McGowan commended Provost Cantor on the appointments of Paul N.
Courant as associate provost for academic and budgetary affairs, Marilyn
Knepp as assistant provost for university budget and planning, and John
Chamberlin as interim dean of the School of Public Policy.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Grazier, Kyle L., Dr.P.H., Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy
Ivanhoe, Philip J., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Asian Languages and Cultures and Associate
Professor of Philosophy, September 1, 1998
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Genne, Beth, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Dance, four year term
Sick, Volker, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
three year term
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
McGraw, Rodney B., reappointed Interim Dean, School of Management, UM-Flint,
ten-month term, September 1, 1997
Pender, Nola J., reappointed Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Research, three-year term


78




September Meeting, 1997


Redman, Richard W., reappointed Interim Associate Dean for Community Partnerships,
one-year term, October 1, 1997
Shields, Dennis J., reappointed Assistant Dean and Director of Admissions, Law School,
three-year term, July 1, 1997
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Anderson, David J., Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure, College
of Engineering, and Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, without tenure,
Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, also appointed, Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering
Apple, Charles G., from Director of Communications Program to Chair, Department of
Communication, three-year term
Barkan, Ariel L., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, also appointed Professor of
Surgery, without tenure
Chamberlin, John R., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public
Policy, also appointed Interim Dean, School of Public Policy
Courant, Paul N., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of Economics and Public
Policy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of
Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy, also appointed Associate
Provost, Academic and Budgetary Affairs, October 20, 1997
Green, Daniel G., Professor of Physiological Optics, with tenure, Medical School, Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of Engineering,
Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also
appointed Professor of Biomedical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering
Herzog, Donald J., from Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, to Professor of
Law and Political Science, with tenure, Law School
Kearfott, Kimberlee J., Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with
tenure, also appointed, Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure
Lawrence, Theodore S., Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, also
appointed Interim Chair, Department of Radiation Oncology
O'Donnell, Matthew, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, also appointed Professor of Biomedical Engineering, with tenure
Sampselle, Carolyn M., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing,
Associate Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, also appointed Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without
tenure, Medical School
Schmaier, Alvin H., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, also appointed Professor of
Pathology, without tenure
Shayman, James A., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, also appointed Professor of
Pharmacology, without tenure
Wall, Harriet M., from Interim Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, to
Interim Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, August 1, 1997
Waters, Christine M., Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Art,
UM-Flint, also appointed, Interim Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences,
UM-Flint, one year term, August 1, 1997
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Mensah, Samuel, Assistant Professor of Finance, UM-Flint, personal leave extended,
September 1, 1997-August 31, 1998
Morris, Charles G., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, duty off-campus leave extended


79




September Meeting, 1997


Pildes, Richard H., Professor of Law, with tenure, contract leave extended
Reimann, Mathias W., Professor of Law, with tenure, scholarly leave extended
Rundensteiner, Elke A., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
personal leave extended
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Dunnick, N. Reed, Professor of Radiology, with tenure, and Chair of the Department of
Radiology, also appointed the Fred Jenner Hodges Professor of Radiology, five-year term
Eagle, Kim A., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, also appointed the Albion Walter
Hewlett Professor of Internal Medicine, five-year term
Goss, Tom A., Donald R. Shepherd Director of Intercollegiate Athletics, September 8, 1997
Greenfield, Lazar J., from the Frederick A. Coller Professor of Surgery to the Frederick A.
Coller Distinguished Professor of Surgery, five-year term, September 1, 1997
Knepp, Marilyn G., Assistant Provost for University Budget and Planning, September 1, 1997
Messiter, Arthur F. Jr., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, also appointed the
Frangois-Xavier Bagnoud Professor of Aerospace Engineering
Nanda, Vikram K., Associate Professor of Finance, without tenure, School of Business
Administration, also appointed, First Chicago NBD Corporation Associate Professor in
Business Administration, one-year term
Neal, Homer A., from Vice President for Research, and Professor of Physics, with tenure, to
Interim President Emeritus, Vice President Emeritus for Research, and Professor of
Physics, with tenure
Neidhardt, Frederick C., from Acting Vice President for Research to Interim Vice President
for Research
Okun, Kathy A., Assistant Dean for Development and Alumni Relations, Law School, threeyear term, October 1, 1997
Omenn, Gilbert S., Executive Vice President for Medical Affairs, September 4, 1997
Pildes, Richard H., Professor of Law, with tenure, also appointed the Roy F. and Jean
Humphrey Proffitt Research Professor of Law
Reid, Thomas R., the Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, four month term
Sandalow, Terrance, reappointed the Edson R. Sunderland Professor of Law, five-year term
Simpson, A. W. Brian, reappointed the Charles F. and Edith J. Clyne Professor of Law, fiveyear term
Stohler, Christian S., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, and Director of Research, School
of Dentistry, and Research Scientist, Center for Human Growth and Development, also
appointed the William R. Mann Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, five-year
term, November 1, 1997
Waggoner, Lawrence W., reappointed the Lewis M. Simes Professor of Law, five-year term
Young, Ernest P., Professor of History, with tenure, also appointed the Richard Hudson
Research Professor of History, five-year term, January 1, 1998
Assistant Dean for Community and Outreach Programs. The
Regents approved the establishment of the position assistant dean for
community and outreach programs in the School of Dentistry, effective
September 1, 1997.
Assistant Dean for Student Services. The Regents approved the
establishment of the position assistant dean for student services in the
School of Dentistry, effective September 1, 1997.
Frederick A. Coller Distinguished Professorship in Surgery.
The Regents approved the change in the name of the Frederick A. Coller
Professorship in Surgery to the Frederick A. Coller Distinguished Professorship in Surgery, effective September 1, 1997.


80




September Meeting, 1997


Ten Additional Endowed School/College Professorships. The
Regents approved the establishment of ten additional endowed school/college
professorships, effective October 1, 1997, allocated as follows: sixteen to the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts; nine to the Medical School; five
to the College of Engineering; two each to the Law School, Music School,
Schools of Business Administration, Dentistry, Nursing, Public Health, and
Social Work; and one each to the Colleges of Architecture and Urban
Planning and Pharmacy and the Schools of Art, Education, Information, and
Natural Resources and Environment.
Harry Clyde Carver Collegiate Professorship in Statistics. The
Regents approved the establishment of the Harry Clyde Carver Collegiate
Professorship in Statistics, effective July 1, 1997.
Robert B. Zajonc Collegiate Professorship in Psychology. The
Regents approved the establishment of the Robert B. Zajonc Collegiate
Professorship in Psychology, effective July 1, 1997.
Committee Appointments. The following committee appointments
were submitted:
Alumni Association Business and Financial Affairs Committee
Beaver, Frank E., retroactive reappointment, July 1, 1997-June 30, 1998
Hartford, George A., retroactive reappointment, July 1, 1997-June 30, 1998
Traugott, Michael W., retroactive reappointment, July 1, 1997-June 30, 1998
Distinguished Alumni Service Award Selection Committee
Jeff, Gloria J., retroactive appointment, July 1, 1997-June 30, 1998, vice Barbara E. Pitts,
term expired
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Dunkle, Ruth E., retroactive appointment, September 1, 1997-April 30, 1998, vice Barbara A.
Anderson, unable to serve
Michigan League Board of Governors
Ward, Peter A., retroactive appointment, May 1, 1997-April 30, 2000, vice Linda L. Daniel,
term expired
UM-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
Palmer, Ron, September 1, 1997-August 31, 2001, vice Russell J. Gibb, term expired
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Ghosh, Mrinal, Ph.D., Lecturer in Business Administration
Gibson, Faison P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Business Administration
Nanda, Dhananjay, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Accounting
Roy, Thirthanker, M.Stat., Lecturer in Marketing, July 22, 1997


81




September Meeting, 1997


School of Dentistry
Brennan, Kathleen A., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 14, 1997
Gequillana, Glenn L., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1997
Kumar, Nivedita S., M.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1997
McLean, Mary E., D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, June 1, 1997
Wicksall, Michel M., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 21, 1997
School of Education
Dinkelman, Todd D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education
Fishman, Barry J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education
Heller, Donald E., Ed.D., Assistant Professor of Education
Nidiffer, Jana, Ed.D., Assistant Professor of Education
Rex, Lesley A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education
College of Engineering
Goovaerts, Pierre, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering
Mirecki-Milunchick, Joanna, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Materials Science Engineering
Shamim, Tariq, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Shaw, John A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering
Solomon, Michael J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering
School of Information
VanAlstyne, Marshall W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Information, August 1, 1997
Wallace, David A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Information
Division of Kinesiologv
Angulo-Kinzler, Rosa M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Kinesiology
Harrison, C. Keith, Ed.D., Assistant Professor of Kinesiology
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Altman, Roann, Ph.D., Lecturer II in English Language Institute, July 1, 1997
Benki, Jose R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Linguistics
Carduner, Marianne T., M.A., Lecturer II in English, July 1, 1997
Carr, Deborah S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology
Caspari, Rachel, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Anthropology
Connelly, Matthew J., Ph.D., Instructor in History, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Instructor in Public Policy
Cullen, Julianne B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics September 1, 1996
English, Susan L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in English, July 1, 1997
Gelca, Razvan, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Hanlan, Patricia C., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Astronomy, July 1, 1997
Harris, David R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology
Harrison, Kristen S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Communication Studies
Herrero-Olaizola, Alejandro, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Spanish
Holzhacker, Ronald L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Political Science, January 1, 1997
Hunt, Nancy R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School
Kasoff, Betty L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in English, July 1, 1997
Klarreich, Erica G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Lin, Ali M. T., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, January 1, 1997
Marshall, Brenda K., Ph.D., Lecturer II in English
Miller, Bradford L., M.A., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies Program, July 1, 1997
Miller, Meira W., M.A.Tesol, Lecturer II in English, July 1, 1997
Millett, Brenda G., M.A., Lecturer II in English, July 1, 1997
Minderhout, John R., M.A., Lecturer II in German, July 1, 1997
Oswald, Gilbert T. II, M.A., Lecturer II in Communication/Film, Residential College
Reznik, Joseph, B.A., Lecturer II in Biology, July 1, 1997
Ronen, Irena, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Russian Literature
Selinger, Peter, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, September 1, 1997
Sircar, Kaushik R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Takken, Madelon K., M.A., Lecturer II in English, July 1, 1997
Thacker, Ralph W., M.P.A., Lecturer II in English, July 1, 1997


82




September Meeting, 1997


Thrall, A. Trevor, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Communication Studies
Tipton, Sara M., M.S., Lecturer II in English, July 1, 1997
Van't Veld, Klaas T., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics
Varolin, Dror, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Wilfong, Terry G., A.M., Assistant Curator, Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, and Assistant
Professor of Egyptology
Wolfe, Thomas C., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Anthropology/History, Residential College
Medical School
Affinito, John H., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, July 21, 1997
An, Lawrence C., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1997
Berkowitz, Sharon G., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1997
Brandt, Mary-Margaret, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, August 1, 1997
Buttar, Amna B., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1997
Collins, Steve V., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 1, 1997
Concus, Adriane P., M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1997
Corporan, Cynthia A., M.D.., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1997
DiGiovine, Bruno, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1997
Douglas, Sue A., M.D., Lecturer in Dermatology, July 1, 1997
Driscoll, Brian P., M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1997
Driscoll, Marcia S., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dermatology, July 1, 1997
Eitzman, Daniel T., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1997
Ernsting, Brian R., Ph.D., Lecturer in Biological Chemistry, July 1, 1997
Feil, Stanley H., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1997
Fiveash, John B., M.D., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, July 1, 1997
Frohna, John G., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine and Clinical
Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1997
Gaca, Julie A., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 1, 1997
Gallagher, Kristina M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, August 1, 1997
Gill, Arvin S., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1997
Goodmurphy, Craig, Ph.D., Lecturer in Anatomy and Cell Biology, August 15, 1997
Guillery, Edward N., M.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
August 1, 1997
Henke, Timothy J., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1997
Hsu, Jenny N., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 15, 1997
Huang, Shaun S., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, July 1, 1997
Hulse, Paul A., B.S.B.M., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1997
Kaul, Daniel R., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, August 1, 1997
Knight, Bradley P., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1997
Lieberman, Jeremy, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, July 1, 1997
Lin, John, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, July 14, 1997
Marshall, Kelley W., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, August 4, 1997
Marvar, Rhonda A., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 1, 1997
Nobunaga, Austin I., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, July 23, 1997
Petershack, Jean A., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1997
Redman, Bruce G., D.O., Clinical Associate Professor II of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1997
Roberts, Mary W., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, July 1, 1997
Roebuck, Michael D., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1997
Ruan, Carolyn M., M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, July 1, 1997
Saunders, Phillip L., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1997
Sayed, Esha O., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
August 1, 1997
Schmitt, Michael T., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 1, 1997
Stoyanoff, Peter J., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, July 1, 1997
Strand, Kendall J., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1997
Sung, Randall S., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1997
Teknos, Theodoros N., M.D., Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, July 21, 1997
Thomas, Dilip A., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1997
von Lubitz, Dag K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, June 1, 1997
Wang, Timothy S., M.D., Lecturer in Dermatology, July 1, 1997
Wei, John T., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1997
Weiss, Kenneth L., M.D., Assistant Professor of Radiology


83




September Meeting, 1997


Whelan, Chad T., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1997
Wicks, Christopher E., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 14, 1997
Wiggins, Jocelyn E., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1997
Zahos, Peter A., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, August 1, 1997
Zaki, Ahmed A., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 1, 1997
School of Music
Snow, Sandra L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Music (Music Education)
School of Nursing
Kellenberg, Joan E., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing
Piehl, Anne M., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
College of Pharmacy
Harris, Ellen M., Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, July 21, 1997
Hoppe, Heather L., Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, July 7, 1997
Regal, Randolph E., Pharm.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy, August 12, 1997
School of Public Health
Bandekar, Rajesh, M.A., Lecturer in Biostatistics
School of Social Work
Spencer, Michael, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work
UM-Dearborn College ofArts, Sciences, and Letters
Adler-Kassner, Linda, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Composition and Rhetoric
Amin, Camron M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History
Sanders, Angela A., M.S., Lecturer in Chemistry
Woodward, Wayne D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Humanities
UM-Dearborn School of Education
Lenze, James S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, July 1, 1997
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Strandholm, Karen S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Business Administration
Harkness, Michael D., M.A., Lecturer in Accounting and Finance
UM-Flint School of Management
Harris, Sally A., M.A., Lecturer in Marketing and Management
Tuttle, Dale B., M.B.A., Lecturer in Management
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Kapuscinski, Roman, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Business Administration,
September 1, 1997
Seguin, Paul J., from Associate Professor of Finance, without tenure, to Lecturer in Finance
Division of Kinesiologv
Wotta, Craig P., from Lecturer to Academic Administrative Intern in Kinesiology, August 1, 1997
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Gough, Maria E., from Instructor to Assistant Professor of History of Art, September 1, 1997
Singh, Pashaura, from Assistant Professor of Sikh Studies to Visiting Assistant Professor II
of Sikh Studies, September 1, 1997


84




September Meeting, 1997


Medical School
Arenberg, Douglas A., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Collier, Phillip J., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Anesthesiology
Cornblath, Wayne T., from Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Assistant Professor of
Neurology to Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Lecturer in Neurology, July 11, 1997
Cueto, Rudy A., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Anesthesiology
El-Kashlan, Hussam K., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology
Fader, Darrell J., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dermatology
Haftel, Hilary M., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases
Izumo, Seigo, from Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Biological
Chemistry, without tenure, to Visiting Professor of Internal Medicine
Jamadar, David A., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology
Schreiner, Robert J., Jr., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Surgery
School of Music
Hill, Marianne P., from Lecturer in Music (Music Theory) to Adjunct Lecturer in Music
(Music Theory), September 1, 1997
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Ellis, Susan, from Lecturer II in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
to Adjunct Lecturer in Social Sciences, College of Arts, Sciences and Letters, UM-Dearborn
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective September 1-December 31, 1997 unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Edwards, Alfred L., Professor Emeritus of Business Administration, September 1, 1997 -June 30, 1998
Whitaker, Gilbert R., Jr., Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Business Administration,
July 1-August 31, 1997
School of Education
Jackson, Murray E., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education
College of Engineering
Miller, James M., Associate Professor Emeritus of Industrial and Operations Engineering,
September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998
Shafter, Edward M., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Humanities
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Becker, Marvin B., Professor Emeritus of History
Burling, Robbins, Professor Emeritus of Linguistics and Professor Emeritus of Anthropology
Lenaghan, Robert T., Professor Emeritus of English, July 1-August 31, 1997
Livingstone, Frank B., Professor Emeritus of Anthropology, September 1, 1997-April 30, 1998
Sarri, Rosemary A., Professor Emerita of Social Work
Steinhoff, William R., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature
Voss, Edward G., Professor Emeritus of Botany, July 1-August 31, 1997
Medical School
Curtis, George C., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, June 1, 1997-May 31, 1998
Juni, Elliot, Professor Emeritus of Microbiology, September 1, 1997-August 31, 1998
Kemme, Mary L., Assistant Professor Emerita of Psychology, July 1, 1997-June 30, 1998
Kornblum, Sylvan Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Department of Psychiatry, Medical
School and Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1, 1997-June 30, 1998
Margolis, Philip M., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, July 1, 1997-June 30, 1998


85




September Meeting, 1997


School of Social Work
Churchill, Sallie R., Professor Emerita of Social Work, September 1, 1997-April 30, 1998
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Sutton, Sharon, Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
School of Business Administration
Anderson, Eugene W., Associate Professor of Marketing, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998
Hildebrandt, Herbert W., Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, School of
Business Administration, and Professor of Communication Studies, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough
Kon, Stanley J., Professor of Finance, with tenure, leave without salary
Kormendi, Roger C., Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, leave
without salary
School of Dentistry
Kanar, Henry L., Associate Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1997-August 31, 1998
Kelsey, Charles C., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, retirement furlough, July 1 -August 31, 1997
School of Education
Daly, David A., Associate Professor of Education and Speech Pathology, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
Harrington, Helen L., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1997
Rowan, Brian P., Associate Dean and Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998
College of Engineering
Barber, James R., Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
Bernstein, Dennis S., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998
Briggs, Dale E., Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, retirement furlough
(phased), January 1-May 31, 1998
Ceccio, Steven L., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1997
Goel, Subhash C., Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1998
Hansen, Will, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998
Henderson, Shane G., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering,
personal leave
Hulbert, Gregory M., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
Kannatey-Asibu, Elijah, Jr., Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
Karnopp, Bruce H., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Associate Professor of Applied
Mechanics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1997
Karr, Dale G., Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1997
Lee, John C., Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997


86




September Meeting, 1997


Liu, Yili, Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Ludema, Kenneth C., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, retirement furlough
Najafi, Khalil, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, sabbatical leave
Roe, Philip L., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997, and January 1-May 31, 1999
Washabaugh, Peter D., Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
Winick, Kim A., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, sabbatical leave
Wylie, E. Benjamin, Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure,
retirement furlough (phased), January 1-May 31, 1998
Division of Kinesiology
Borer, Katarina T., Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Law School
Pildes, Richard H., Professor of Law, with tenure, scholarly activity leave
St. Antoine, Theodore J., James E. and Sarah A. Degan Professor of Law and Professor of
law, with tenure, retirement furlough
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Achen, Christopher H., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, special duty assignment,
July 1- August 15, 1997
Allen, Richard L., Associate Professor of Communication Studies, with tenure, scholarly
activity leave
Aparicio, Frances R., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Associate Professor of Spanish and
American Culture, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1997
Baxter, William H., III, Associate Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with
tenure, Associate Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, without tenure,
Program in Linguistics, sabbatical leave
Bornstein, George J., C. A. Patrides Professor and Professor of English Language and
Literature, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1998
Clej, Alina M., Associate Professor of French and Comparative Literature, with tenure,
scholarly activity leave
Duanmu, San, Assistant Professor of Linguistics, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Estabrook, George F., Professor of Botany, with tenure, scholarly activity leave
Farley, W. Reynolds, Otis Dudley Duncan Collegiate Professor of Sociology and Professor of
Sociology, with tenure, research leave
Federbush, Paul G., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Fornaess, John E., Frederick Gehring Collegiate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1997
Freedman, Jonathan E., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
and Associate Professor of American Studies, without tenure, scholarly activity leave
Freese, Katherine, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Frier, Bruce W., Professor of Classics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and the Henry King Ransom Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure,
Law School, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1997
Harabetian, Eduard, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, research leave
Inglehart, Ronald F., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1998
Jeganathan, P., Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Ji, Lizhen, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1997
Kling, George W., II, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Lange, Rebecca A., Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998


87




September Meeting, 1997


Laugesen, Richard S., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, teaching leave, September 1, 1996 -May 31, 1997
Li, David D., Assistant Professor of Economics, scholarly activity leave
Lin, Ann C., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Assistant Professor of Public Policy, School of Public Policy, duty off campus
McIntosh, James H., Professor of English Language and Literature and American Culture,
with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1997, and duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 1998
Mermier, Guy R., Professor of French, with tenure, retirement furlough (phased)
Milne, James S., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, personal leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Paige, Jeffrey M., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
Porter, James I., Associate Professor of Greek, Latin and Comparative Literature, with
tenure, scholarly activity leave
Powers, Martin J., Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1997, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1998
Price, Richard H., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Research Management,
without tenure, School of Business Administration, sabbatical leave
Rickly, Rebecca J., Lecturer III in English, personal leave
Ross, Marlon B., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1 -May 31, 1998
Skantze, P. A., Assistant Professor of English, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1997
Sloat, Barbara M., Lecturer III in Biology, Residential College, research leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Smuts, Barbara B., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Professor of Anthropology,
without tenure, sabbatical leave
Spatzier, Ralf J., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Stevens, Jacqueline A., Assistant Professor of Political Science and Women's Studies, research
leave
Sumida, Stephen H., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and American
Culture, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1997
Witke, Charles, Professor of Greek and Latin, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Wooley, Trevor D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, duty off campus
Zhang, Youxue, Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-December 31, 1998
Medical School
Francis, Isaac R., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1-December 31, 1997
Hoock, Jennifer L., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Family Medicine, personal leave,
August 4-29, 1997
School of Music
Chambers, Evan K., Assistant Professor of Music (Composition), scholarly activity leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998
Stein, Louise K., Associate Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), with tenure,
scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
Woods, Leigh A., Professor of Theatre and Drama, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
September 1-December 31, 1998
School of Public Health
Connell, Cathleen M., Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with
tenure, sabbatical leave
McLaughlin, Catherine G., Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1997
Wolfe, Robert A., Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
School of Social Work
Lauffer, Armand, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1998


88




September Meeting, 1997


Mutschler, Elizabeth, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 1997
Reed, Beth G., Associate Professor of Social Work and Women's Studies, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Saunders, Daniel G., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1997
Seabury, Brett A., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1998
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Anderson-Levitt, Kathryn M., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1997-April 30, 1998
Bazzi, Ali A. H., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Lazarus, Belinda D., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -April 30, 1998
Luthra, Rashmi, Associate Professor of Communications and Composition, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1997-April 30, 1998
Moyer, Richard H., Professor of Science Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -April 30, 1998
Parsons, Marilee B., Associate Professor of Biology and Biochemistry, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 1997-April 30, 1998
Summers, Claude J., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 1997-April 30, 1998
Tai, Julia C., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -December 31, 1998
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Lakshmanan, Sridhar, Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1997
Callahan, Thomas J., Associate Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1997
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
McGrath, Marianne P., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
UM-Flint School of Management
Bokemeier, L. Charles, Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998
Taghaboni-Dutta, Fataneh, Associate Professor of Management, with tenure, sabbatical leave
CORRECTION TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
School of Business Administration
Masten, Scott E., Professor of Business Administration and Public Policy, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998 (previously reported as September 1 -December 31, 1997)
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Manis, Melvin, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1996 -December 31, 1997 (previously reported as retirement furlough (phased),
September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997


89




September Meeting, 1997


CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Egger, Rebecca M., Assistant Professor of English and Assistant Professor of Women's
Studies, canceled duty off campus leave (previously reported effective September 1 -December 31, 1997)
Kivelson, Valerie A., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, canceled sabbatical leave
(previously reported effective September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998)
TERMINATIONS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on June 30, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Abarbanell, Jeffrey S., Assistant Professor of Accounting, resigned
Conner, Kathleen R., Assistant Professor of Corporate Stradegy, resigned, May 31, 1997
Methe, David T., Assistant Professor of Corporate Stradegy, resigned, May 31, 1997
Miller, Edwin L., Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, retired
Sailors, John J., Assistant Professor of Marketing, term complete, May 31, 1997
Seguin, Paul J., Lecturer in Finance, resigned, August 31, 1997
Thompson, Ronald D., Assistant Professor of Statistics and Management Sciences, term
complete, May 31, 1997
Whitaker, Gilbert R., Jr., Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, retired, August 31, 1997
School of Dentistry
Heine, Brian T., Lecturer in Dentistry, term complete
Zettel, Melinda M. S., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, term complete, August 31, 1997
School of Education
Blackburn, Robert T., Professor of Higher Education, with tenure, retired
College of Engineering
Haghi, Mehrdad, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
resigned, December 31, 1996
Division of Kinesiology
Chong, Sean J., Lecturer in Kinesiology, resigned, August 22, 1997
Whiteheart, Luanne, Lecturer in Kinesiology, resigned, July 31, 1997
Law School
Shaw, Theodore M., Assistant Professor of Law, resigned, May 31, 1997
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Adelson, Joseph B., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retired, May 31, 1997
Aizawa, Minoru, Lecturer III in Japanese, resigned, May 31, 1997
Awkward, Michael, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and
Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, without tenure, resigned, May 31, 1997
Bartlett, Rosamund A., Assistant Professor of Russian Literature, term complete, May 31, 1997
Delfino, Donatella, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, term complete, July 31, 1997
Forage, Paul C., Assistant Professor of History and Assistant Professor of Asian Languages
and Cultures, resigned, May 31, 1997
Griffin, James B., Professor Emeritus of Anthropology, term complete, June 30, 1996
Herold, Kirsten F., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures and Lecturer I in
English, term complete, April 30, 1998
Huang, Yasheng, Assistant Professor of Political Science, resigned, July 31, 1997
Kwiecinski, Piotr, Lecturer II in Polish Languages and Literatures, term complete, April 30, 1997


90




September Meeting, 1997


Laugesen, Richard S., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, term complete, July 31, 1997
Lucente, Gregory L., Professor of Italian and Comparative Literature, with tenure, deceased,
June 26, 1997
Morrison, Molly G., Lecturer II in Italian, resigned, August 31, 1997
Roth, David, Assistant Professor of Economics, resigned, May 31, 1997
Rouse, Roger C., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, resigned, May 31, 1997
Song, Renming, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, term complete, May 31, 1997
Medical School
Bonifacio, Frank, Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete, July 31, 1997
Chang, Eugenia, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, resigned, June 27, 1997
Clark, Frank M., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete, July 31, 1997
Cook, Timothy H., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, resigned, August 22, 1997
Culler, Cynthia D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, resigned, July 24, 1997
Deshmukh, Ganesh R., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, resigned, September 30, 1997
Durham III, Lucian A., Lecturer in Surgery, resigned
Ernsting, Brian R., Lecturer in Biological Chemistry, resigned, August 4, 1997
Fischer, Jeffrey L., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, term complete, July 6, 1997
Gianchandani, Roma Y., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned, August 11, 1997
Gupta, Balaji K., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, term complete, July 6, 1997
Hamlet, Katherine R., Lecturer in Dermatology, resigned
Huelke, Donald F., Professor of Anatomy, with tenure, retired, August 31, 1997
Hunter, Roberta J., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, resigned, July 31, 1997
Izumo, Seigo, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, resigned
Johnson, Nina F., Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, resigned, June 26, 1997
Koh, Eun-Kyu, Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete, July 31, 1997
Kukor, Jerome J., Lecturer in Microbiology and Immunology, resigned, July 11, 1997
Meyer, Thomas L., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned
Oesterling, Joseph E., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, resigned, July 15, 1997
Park, John M., Lecturer in Surgery, resigned
Piccione, Richard J., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, term complete
Reickert, Craig A., Lecturer in Surgery, term complete
Reyes, Teodoro U., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete, July 11, 1997
Richardson, Lisa C., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned
Sternberg, Douglas M., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete, July 2, 1997
Steude, Georgine M., Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, retired, August 31, 1997
Sulavik, Denise E., Lecturer in Pathology, resigned, July 31, 1997
Varma, Navin K., Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology, resigned, August 8, 1997
Wilson, Mark W., Assistant Professor of Radiology, resigned
Wolintz, Robyn J., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, term complete, July 6, 1997
School of Music
Brown, John R., Professor of Theatre and Drama, with tenure, School of Music, and
Professor of English Language and Literature, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retired, December 31, 1997
School of Nursing
Booth, Dorothy E., Assistant Professor of Nursing, retired, September 1, 1997
Piehl, Anne M., Lecturer in Nursing, term complete, April 30, 1997
Wilson, Deleise S., Lecturer in Nursing, term complete, May 31, 1997
School of Public Health
Kim, Kyungmann, Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, resigned, August 31, 1997
Matheson, Donna M., Assistant Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, resigned,
July 31, 1997
Wang, Yuedong, Assistant Professor of Biostatistics, resigned, August 31, 1997
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Bell, John C., Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure, resigned
Olmsted, Jennifer C., Assistant Professor of Economics, resigned, May 31, 1997


91




September Meeting, 1997


UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Holden, Debra J., Assistant Professor of Health Care, resigned
Meredith, Cynthia E., Lecturer in Nursing, resigned
Retirement Memoirs. Provost Cantor submitted retirement memoirs
for 10 faculty members.
Joseph B. Adelson, professor of psychology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retired from active status on May 31, 1997, following
more than 40 years of service.
Professor Adelson received his B.S. degree (1945) from the City College
of New York and his M.A. (1947) and Ph.D. (1950) degrees from the University
of California at Berkeley. He taught at Michigan State University (1950-51)
and Bennington College (1951-56) before joining the University of Michigan
faculty in 1956 as a visiting assistant professor of psychology. He was
promoted to assistant professor in 1957, associate professor in 1959, and
professor in 1963. He also held an appointment as senior psychologist at the
Psychological Clinic from 1956-87 and served as the director of this internship
training agency.
Throughout his career, Professor Adelson has focused on two areas:
adolescence and the psychological aspects of social and political issues. His
work has had a lasting influence, both within the social sciences and the
intellectual community as a whole. Many of his papers are classics: reframings
of key issues that have been supported and sustained by subsequent
research. Literally dozens of his papers have been reprinted in readers, in
some instances more than a dozen times. His book, Inventing Adolescence,
was named among the "Best Books of 1986" by the Chronicles of American
Culture, and it continues to be widely cited and respected, as does his earlier
book (with Elizabeth Douvan), The Adolescent Experience. Another of
Professor Adelson's notable and ongoing contributions has been as a book
reviewer of books for both professional and general audiences. His reviews
are a delight to read, not only informing readers but also teaching them.
Professor Adelson has held numerous research fellowships, has been the
recipient of many research and teaching awards, and has been a frequent
consultant to government organizations and foundations. He was the founding
editor of the journal Political Psychology and has been a consulting editor for
a number of major psychology journals, including the Merrill-Palmer
Quarterly, Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, Journal of Youth
and Adolescence, and Contemporary Psychology. He will long be remembered
by his colleagues and students for his broad intellect, his rich interest in the
arts and humanities, his tough-mindedness, his sense of humor, and his
graceful and elegant prose style.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Joseph B.
Adelson professor emeritus of psychology.
Robert T. Blackburn, professor of higher education, School of Education,
retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1997, following 31 years of
service.
Professor Blackburn received his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees, in 1947,
1948, and 1953, respectively, from the University of Chicago. Following military


92




September Meeting, 1997


service (1943-46), he was an assistant professor at Chico State College (1948-49);
director and assistant professor at George Williams College (1949-51);
research associate and instructor at the University of Chicago (1951-54);
assistant and associate professor at San Francisco State College (1954-58);
and member of the faculty, college examiner, and dean of faculty at Shimer
College (1958-66). He joined the University of Michigan School of Education
in 1966 as professor of higher education.
During his years in the School of Education and the Center for the
Study of Higher and Postsecondary Education, Professor Blackburn taught a
wide array of graduate courses and collaborated extensively with students,
both in research and publication. He served on the School of Education
Executive Committee a number of times, most recently from 1992-95, and
also served on many other School of Education and University-wide committees.
Professor Blackburn has also been an active member of FAIR (Faculty
Against Institutional Racism), a campus-wide faculty group.
Throughout his career, Professor Blackburn has maintained membership
in the American Education Research Association, the American Association
for Higher Education (AAHE), and the Association for the Study of Higher
Education (ASHE). He is past chair of the professors of higher education for
AAHE and regularly reviews articles for such journals as Higher Education,
Sociology of Education, and Review of Higher Education. He has worked on
a number of externally-funded research projects, has served as a consultant
to several colleges and universities, and is the author or co-author of numerous
publications (more than 100 since 1970). He is a member of the UM Faculty
Research Club and in 1988 became only the third person honored by the
ASHE with its Research Achievement Award.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming Robert T. Blackburn professor emeritus of higher education.
Dorothy E. Booth, assistant professor of nursing, retired from active
faculty status on September 1, 1997, following 10 years of dedicated service.
Professor Booth received her B.S.N. and M.S.N. degrees from Wayne
State University in 1972 and 1974, respectively, and her Ph.D. degree in
education from the University of Michigan in 1985. She is certified as a
gerontology nurse practitioner and has also earned certificates as a "Specialist
in Aging" from Harvard University (1978) and in "Interdisciplinary Geriatric
Education" from the University of Michigan (1984). She joined the University
of Michigan's School of Nursing as an assistant professor in 1987, following
eight years as an assistant professor at Wayne State University (1979-87). In
1995, she was also appointed as an associate fellow at the University of
Michigan's Institute of Gerontology.
Professor Booth has received multiple community and academic awards
in recognition of her devoted service to gerontological nursing education and
practice and to the community of elders. Following her retirement, she plans
to continue her collaborative research activities and will also work with the
School of Nursing's Office of Student Affairs to assist students of all levels in
the preparation of scholarly papers.


93




September Meeting, 1997


For her dedicated service and contributions to the University of Michigan,
the Regents now name Dorothy E. Booth assistant professor emerita of
nursing.
Dale A. Davis, associate professor of management and accounting
at the University of Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on
May 31, 1997, after a most productive career as a teacher and researcher.
A native of Michigan, Professor Davis received his B.S. degree in
business administration in 1957 from Eastern Michigan University and his
M.B.A. and Ph.D. degrees in 1969 and 1978, respectively, from the University
of Michigan. From 1957-70, Professor Davis was a financial administrator
with Chevrolet Motor Division and from 1971-77, he was the academic
budget officer and a full-time instructor in accounting and finance at Eastern
Michigan University. In 1977, he moved to Volkswagen of America as the
corporate auditor and later as assistant controller at the Volkswagen
Westmoreland Assembly Plant. He joined the faculty of the University of
Michigan-Flint in 1982 as associate professor of management and accounting,
without tenure, and was awarded tenure in 1989.
Professor Davis' research has focused on the automotive area. He has
written approximately three-quarters of all the corporate procedures now in
place at Volkswagen of America, Inc., and his research culminated in the
basic financial analytical and reporting structure of the Volkswagen Foreign
Trade Zone in Westmoreland, Pennsylvania. He has appeared on television
as part of a network series on the world automotive industry and has
appeared locally to comment on domestic content legislation and the automobile
industry.
Professor Davis was awarded the Alpha Kappa Psi (professional
business fraternity) Outstanding Educator Award in 1973 and the University
of Michigan-Flint Excellence in Teaching Award in 1988-89. He has served
as president of the Beta Gamma Sigma Flint Chapter and is a member of the
accounting fraternity, Beta Alpha Psi. Professor Davis has also been
involved with the United Way of Detroit, served as an advisor for Junior
Achievement groups, was a fire commissioner in Ypsilanti Township, and
served as a volunteer probation officer for the 34th District Court in
Romulus, Michigan.
The Regents now salute this distinguished business educator for his
dedicated service by naming Dale A. Davis associate professor emeritus of
management and accounting.
John T. Headington, M.D., professor of pathology and professor of
dermatology in the Medical School, retired from active faculty status on
May 31, 1997.
Born in Grand Rapids, Dr. Headington was educated at the University
of Michigan, where he received his B.A. and M.D. degrees in 1952 and 1957,
respectively. After completing an internship at Virginia Mason Hospital in
Seattle in 1958, Dr. Headington returned to the University of Michigan for
residency training in anatomic and clinical pathology. In 1963-64, he was an
instructor in the Departments of Dermatology and Pathology at the University
of California in San Francisco. He returned to the University of Michigan in


94




September Meeting, 1997


1964 to accept an appointment as assistant professor of pathology. He was
promoted to associate professor of pathology and dermatology in 1968 and to
professor in 1971.
During his career, Dr. Headington was invited to present over 40
lectures internationally. He served as visiting professor of pathology at the
University of Illinois Chiang Mai Project in Chang Mai, Thailand, from 1966-68;
as visiting professor of pathology at the Groote Schuur Hospital in
Capetown, South Africa, in 1991, and was the recipient of a Wellcome
Research Travel Grant to the Dermatopathology Research Laboratories of
the Guys Hospital in London, England.
Dr. Headington is board certified in both anatomic and clinical pathology
as well as in dermatopathology and dermatology. He has been the institution's
premier dermatopathologist and has received numerous awards from the
Departments of Pathology and Dermatology, the Medical School, and national
and international organizations. Dr. Headington has been an active member
of numerous professional organizations, including having served as secretarytreasurer and as president of the American Society of Dermatopathology.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his
dedicated service by naming John T. Headington professor emeritus of
pathology and professor emeritus of dermatology.
Elliot Juni, professor of microbiology, retired from active faculty status
on August 31, 1997, following 31 years of service.
A native of New York City, Professor Juni received his B.E.E. degree in
1944 from the College of the City of New York and his Ph.D. degree in microbiology in 1951 from Western Reserve University. He joined the faculty of
the University of Illinois in 1951 and moved to Emory University in 1956 as
an associate professor. He was promoted to professor at Emory in 1965. He
joined the University of Michigan faculty as professor of microbiology in
1966.
Professor Juni is noted for his dedication to teaching and research in the
area of microbial metabolism. During his tenure at the University, Professor
Juni taught basic microbiology to medical students and microbial metabolism
to undergraduate and graduate students. He was a member of the editorial
board of the Journal of Bacteriology and was a member of the International
Committee on Systematic Bacteriology.
Professor Juni's research contributions have as their focus the elucidation
of metabolic pathways and the mechanism of genetic transformation, and the
use of genetic transformation and nutritional assays for the identification of
bacteria. He has devised a novel method of establishing the genetic relatedness
of bacteria in genera such as Acinetobacter, Moraxella, and Neisseria. He has
been recognized for his scientific contributions by having an organism named
after him-Acinetobacterjunii.
The Regents now salute this dedicated educator and researcher for his
contributions and service by naming Elliot Juni professor emeritus of
microbiology.
Edwin L. Miller, professor of business administration in the School of
Business Administration, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1997.


95




September Meeting, 1997


Professor Miller received his B.A. and M.S. degrees from San Jose State
College in 1951 and 1957, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree from the
University of California in 1964. From 1960-63, he was an assistant professor
at San Jose State College. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in
1964 as an assistant professor and was promoted to associate professor in
1968 and professor in 1972. From 1986-93, he also served as associate dean
of the School of Business Administration.
Professor Miller has been an excellent teacher and faculty member. He
has been a central figure in the M.B.A. curriculum for many years and was
involved in the early design of the M.B.A. core curriculum. His involvement
in the beginnings of the school's Asia strategy and other internationalization
initiatives eventually led to such flagship programs as the M.B.A. domestic
corps, the M.B.A. Africa corps, and the Center for International Business
Education, among others. He also oversaw the development and growth of
the school's Division of Research, which now coordinates and guides the
many faculty research initiatives. Professor Miller's unwavering dedication
to the students and programs of the business school was an integral part of
the dean's administration for many years.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Edwin L. Miller
professor emeritus of business administration.
Georgine M. Steude, M.D., assistant professor of anesthesiology and
assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology, retired from active faculty
status on August 31, 1997, after a long and productive career as a clinician,
teacher, and administrator.
Dr. Steude received her B.A. degree from Valparaiso University in 1953
and her M.D. degree from Northwestern University Medical School in 1957.
Dr. Steude received her internship and residency training in anesthesiology
at the University of Michigan from 1957-60. She was an instructor in
anesthesiology at the University of Michigan Medical Center from 1960-63
and from 1968-72. She was in private practice in Saline, Michigan, from
1963-68. She joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant
professor of anesthesiology in 1968.
In 1982, Dr. Steude was appointed assistant professor of obstetrics and
gynecology, and from 1983-89 she acted as section chief of obstetrical
anesthesiology. She also was section chief of pediatric anesthesiology from
1985-89. Dr. Steude served as interim chair of the Department of Anesthesiology from 1989-90.
In 1991, Dr. Steude took a sabbatical leave and gained additional
postgraduate training in pain management. She then returned to the department as a member of the Pain Management Section and the following year
became director of the Acute Pain Service. She continued seeing chronic
pain patients on a weekly basis while managing one of the larger acute pain
services in the nation. In 1994, she became board certified in the subspecialty
of pain management of anesthesiology. This was the first year that this
certification process was offered.
In addition to her extensive clinical and teaching responsibilities, Dr.
Steude has served on more than 40 committees at national, state, and institutional levels. She was president of the Michigan Society of Anesthesiologists


96




September Meeting, 1997


from 1990-92 and trustee of the Robert B. Sweet Memorial Fund from
1980-96.
The Regents now salute this distinguished medical educator for her
dedicated service by naming Georgine M. Steude assistant professor emerita
of anesthesiology and assistant professor emerita of obstetrics and
gynecology.
John W. Weigel II, librarian, retired from the University Library on
August 31, 1997, after more than 30 years of service.
A native of Pennsylvania, John (Jack) Weigel received his B.A. degree in
mathematics, summa cum laude, from Dickinson College in 1956, his M.A.
degree in physics from The Johns Hopkins University in 1960, and his M.S.
degree in library science from Columbia University in 1962. He joined the
University Library in 1964 as physics/astronomy/mathematics librarian.
Mr. Weigel's career at Michigan gives much evidence of his strong
commitment to the library's collections. From 1970-85, he edited the Union
List of Serials, an annual publication detailing the Library's holdings primarily
in the sciences and technology. In 1980, he was appointed to the study team
for the Collection Analysis Project, an intensive effort to examine the
patterns and practices of collection building in the library, and chaired its
Task Force on New Needs and Possibilities. Mr. Weigel also served as the
science and technology selector for the Graduate Library and as a regular
guest lecturer in the School of Information.
In the early 1980s, Mr. Weigel served as the library's personnel and staff
development officer. Later he was selected to help implement the library's
on-line public catalog, MIRLYN. In the past several years, Mr. Weigel served
as coordinator of Access Services and Collection Services for the Shapiro
Science Library. He was instrumental in ensuring the smooth operation of
the Science Library and of the moves from the separate locations into the
one library.
A recognized leader in science librarianship nationally, Mr. Weigel served
as president of the Michigan chapter of the Special Libraries Association
(SLA) and worked with colleagues from around the country to establish the
Physics/Astronomy/Mathematics Section of SLA Within the Research Libraries
Group, Mr. Weigel chaired its Committee on the Long Term Serials Project
for physics and was a member of its Committee for Mathematics.
Mr. Weigel's knowledge, sense of humor, and wise counsel have characterized his career at Michigan. He leaves with the sincere respect of his
colleagues for a job well done.
The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian by naming John W.
Weigel II librarian emeritus.
L. Yvonne Wulff, program director for international initiatives and
librarian, University Library, retired on August 29, 1997, after nearly 20
years of service.
A native of the Pacific Northwest, Ms. Wulff received her B.S. degree
from Washington State University in 1962 and her A.M.L.S. degree from the
University of Washington in 1963. She began her career at The Ohio State
University in 1963 and later served in the Seattle Public Library, the


97




September Meeting, 1997


University of Washington libraries, The Johns Hopkins medical institutions,
and the University of Minnesota Bio-Medical Library. In 1970, she completed
the course work for her Ph.D. degree in information transfer at Syracuse
University.
Ms. Wulff joined the University of Michigan in January 1978 as head of
the Medical Center Library. She had a comprehensive understanding of how
excellent medical libraries should be run and a strong devotion to providing
outstanding service. Ms. Wulff not only guided the growth and development
of the services and collections of the Medical Library, but also eventually
assumed responsibility for the other health sciences libraries, in public health
and dentistry.
In August 1987, Ms. Wulff was named assistant director for collection
management for the University Library. For six years, she led the transition
from collection development responsibility resting in a single individual to
the responsibility resting broadly with those who serve on the Collection
Management and Development Council (CMDC). Under her leadership,
CMDC became a vital advisory group for the Library's administration. In
1993, Ms. Wulff became the library's first program director for international
initiatives. Her work focused on building connections with the International
Institute and other international efforts on campus and on bringing more
Fulbright scholars to the library than at any time in the past.
Ms. Wulff is a critical thinker whose thoughtful comments and questions
often changed the course of discussion. She was committed to the well-being
of the library and made important contributions as the library moved into
the electronic world.
The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian by naming L. Yvonne
Wulff librarian emerita.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded
by Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent
Agenda.
The University's Investments at June 30, 1997
Executive Vice President Matthews submitted a series of reports on the
University's invested funds. He called on Associate Vice President Norman
Herbert to review the report.
Associate Vice President Herbert noted that the University Endowment
Fund (UEF) grew from about $1.6 billion to almost $2 billion during the past
year, while providing $76.4 million in distributions for program support.
The Donor Pooled Income Fund grew from $8.1 million to $9.5 million, while
distributing over $350,000 to income beneficiaries.
Associate Vice President Herbert noted that the Long Term Portfolio's
return was 18 percent for the year. While strong in absolute terms, it trailed
the returns of the S&P and MSCI World Index, and he gave several explanations


98




September Meeting, 1997


for this. In contrast, the University Investment Pool and Veritas had returns
of 11.0 and 9.9 percent, well above the indices for short duration portfolios
which were used before making changes in the investment strategy for these
portfolios.
1997-98 Budgets
Executive Vice President Matthews submitted the University's Budget
Book for fiscal year 1997-98, a separately bound document which formally
compiles the budget that was approved in July 1997.
Sale of 1610 Washtenaw Avenue, Ann Arbor, Michigan
Executive Vice President Matthews reported that the previously authorized
sale of the property at 1610 Washtenaw Avenue, Ann Arbor (the former
Reading and Learning Skills Center), had been completed at a sale price of
$341,000.00.
Purchase of Arbor Lakes Property
Executive Vice President Matthews informed the Regents that in
keeping with the Regents' authorization in July 1997 for purchase of the
Arbor Lakes property, the University has agreed to purchase the property at
a price of $13,000,000, subject to an acceptable environmental survey of the
property.
Office Opportunity Fund IV, L.P., OCM Opportunities Fund II, L.P.,
Hearthstone State Investors, L.P.
Executive Vice President Matthews informed the Regents that the
University had made follow-on investments in two new funds sponsored by
previously approved partnerships, as provided for by Regental policy.
Sixteen million dollars has been committed to Office Opportunity Fund IV,
L.P., and fifteen million dollars to OCM Opportunities Fund II, L.P. He also
noted that the University had agreed to an amendment to the Hearthstone
Multi-State Investors, L.P., partnership documents, as described in the
Regents Communication.
Commitment of $10.0 Million of the Long Term Portfolio to Doughty
Hanson & Co III
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a commitment of $10.0 million of the Long Term
Portfolio to Doughty Hanson & Co III, pending a favorable legal review of the
documents by the Office of the General Counsel.
Biological Station-Rebuilding of Lecture Hall
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved an increase in the scope of a previously approved
project for rebuilding of the walls and roof replacement for the Biological
Station lecture hall, as described in the Regents Communication.


99




September Meeting, 1997


Campus Security Lighting Upgrade
Executive Vice President Matthews brought forth a request for approval
to extend the lighting upgrade program into the Medical Campus, North
Campus, and South Campus areas over the next few years, on a phased basis
as funds are identified. Regents Newman and Power expressed concerns
about the balance between safety and aesthetic considerations with regard to
outdoor lighting.
Following some discussion, Regent Taylor moved approval of proceeding
with the next phase of the campus security lighting project.  Regent
McGowan seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Parking Services 1998 Annual Maintenance Program
Regent Newman moved approval of the 1998 Parking Services annual
safety, maintenance, and repairs program, as described in the Regents
Communication. Regent Maynard seconded the motion. Regent McGowan
requested the scheduling of a comprehensive discussion of parking at the
University of Michigan, encompassing historical and future perspectives.
President Bollinger agreed to hold such a discussion.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Softball Service Building
Mr. Doug Hanna, university architect, gave a presentation describing a
proposal to increase the scope of the previously approved Softball Service
Building. Following some discussion, Regent McGowan moved approval of
the increase in scope and project design. Regent Maynard seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Renovation Projects
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) Phase I of the
Energy Conservation Measures Lighting Retrofit Project; 2) installation of
Motorola System Control and Data Acquisition (MOSCAD) connections to
the Department of Public Safety for University Housing units; 3) medical
air compressor and medical vacuum pump replacement in University of
Michigan Hospitals (UMH); 4) condenser water pump replacement at UMH;
5) construction of a computer-oriented training center on the ground floor
of the Wolverine Tower building; 6) construction of a Department of Public
Safety satellite office, and mailroom, equipment room, and lobby renovations
in Wolverine Tower; 7) continuation of the Michigan Stadium restoration
project; and 8) renovation of Eisenhower Corporate Park West for the UMH
MWorks Managed Care Program.
Purchasing Contract with AccuPhotonics, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with AccuPhotonics, Inc. Because


100




September Meeting, 1997


Professor Mohammed N. Islam is both a University of Michigan employee
and a partial owner of AccuPhotonics, Inc., this purchasing contract falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the University of
Michigan and AccuPhotonics, Inc.
2.   The terms of the contract to support University of Michigan research
include the purchase of one each, Sutter Model P-200 C02 laser optical fiber
puller and one each Denton vacuum DV502A evaporative coater, quotation
dated August 5, 1997, for $20,000.
3.   Associate Professor Islam's pecuniary interest arises from his position as partial
owner of AccuPhotonics, Inc.
Purchasing Contract with TopSpins, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved a purchasing contract with TopSpins, Inc.
Because Dr. Martin Prince is both an employee of the University of Michigan
and the owner of TopSpins, Inc., this contract falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the purchasing contract will be the University of Michigan and
TopSpins, Inc.
2.   Terms of the contract include purchase of disposable plastic tubing sets to assist
in 3D MR for a total one time contract supplying 100 sets per month at $9.90
each, deliverable for a ten-month period for a total cost of $9,900. The contract
will commence upon processing of a purchase order following Regental approval.
3.   Dr. Prince's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of TopSpins, Inc.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Loyola University
(Chicago)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved an agreement with Loyola University of
Chicago, involving a subcontract to support the participation of Dr. Brian
Nickoloff in carrying out the work of an NIH grant awarded to the University
of Michigan. Because Dr. Nickoloff is an employee of Loyola University and
also retains an uncompensated visiting associate professorship at the University
of Michigan, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Loyola University.
2.   Terms of the agreement include a total subcontract of approximately $37,970 to
cover the period of June 1, 1997, through March 31, 2001. The University's
standard subcontract provisions will apply.
3.   Dr. Nickoloff has no pecuniary interest in this agreement.


101




September Meeting, 1997


Agreement between the University of Michigan and Worcester
Polytechnic Institute
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved an agreement between the University of
Michigan and Worcester Polytechnic Institute, involving a subcontract for
performance of a grant to the University of Michigan from     the National
Science Foundation. Because a co-investigator on the grant project, Elke
Rudensteiner, is a University of Michigan faculty member on an unpaid leave
of absence who intends to move permanently to the Worcester Polytechnic
Institute, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Worcester
Polytechnic Institute.
2.  Under the terms of the agreement, a total subcontract of $50,685 is anticipated
to cover an 18-month period. The University's standard subcontract provisions
apply.
3.  Dr. Rudensteiner has no pecuniary interest in this agreement.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Tal
Materials, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Deitch, the
Regents unanimously approved an agreement between the University of
Michigan and Tal Materials, Inc. ("Tal"), involving a subcontract under Tal's
SBIR Phase I project, "Joining of Ceramic Composite Materials." Because
three University of Michigan faculty members (Richard Laine, David R.
Treadwell, and Anthony Sutorik) are also officers or employees of Tal, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Tal Materials, Inc.
2.  Terms of the agreement will be consistent with University policy regarding
research subcontracts. Intellectual property rights will be governed by the terms
of the research agreement. The research project is proposed over a five-month
period at a total cost of $13,425. The budget does not include indirect costs, since
this is an SBIR Phase I project.
3.  The pecuniary interest of Drs. Laine, Treadwell, and Sutorik arises from their
status as employees of both the University of Michigan and Tal Materials, Inc.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Tal
Materials, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved an agreement between the University of
Michigan and Tal Materials, Inc. ("Tal"), involving a subcontract under Tal's
SBIR Phase I project, "Inorganic/Organic Hybrid Polymeric Components for
Combustion Systems."      Because three University of Michigan faculty
members (Richard Laine, David R. Treadwell, and Anthony Sutorik) are also


102




September Meeting, 1997


officers or employees of Tal, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Tal Materials, Inc.
2.   Terms of the agreement will be consistent with University policy regarding
research subcontracts. Intellectual property rights will be governed by the
terms of the research agreement. The research project is proposed over an
eight-month period at a total cost of $17,014. The budget does not include
indirect costs, since this is an SBIR Phase I project.
3.  The pecuniary interest of Drs. Laine, Treadwell, and Sutorik arises from their
status as employees of both the University of Michigan and Tal Materials, Inc.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories Incorporated (TSRL)
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of
Michigan and TSRL for a subcontract to the University involving an SBIR
Phase II award to TSRL. Because certain University employees (Gordon
Amidon, John Crison, Elke Lipka, Jae-Seung Kim, and John Hilfinger) are
also either employees of, have an interest in, or serve as a director or officer
of TSRL, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and Therapeutic
Systems Research Laboratories Incorporated (TSRL).
2.   The terms of the research agreement conform to University policy. The
period of performance is two years and the total cost of the project is
$168,203.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Gordon Maiden, John Crison, Elke Lipka,
Jae-Seung Kim, and John Hilfinger arise from their status as officers, stockholders, or employees of TSRL. None of these persons is connected with the
performance of the project. The project director, Blake Roessler, M.D., is a
full-time University of Michigan employee who has no pecuniary or other
interest in TSRL.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories Incorporated (TSRL)
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of
Michigan and TSRL for a subcontract to the University involving an SBIR
Phase II award to TSRL. Because certain University employees (Gordon
Maiden, John Crison, Elke Lipka, Jae-Seung Kim, and John Hilfinger) are
also either employees of, have an interest in, or serve as a director or officer
of TSRL, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:


103




September Meeting, 1997


1.  Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and Therapeutic
Systems Research Laboratories Incorporated (TSRL).
2.  The terms of the research agreement conform to University policy. The
period of performance is two years and the total cost of the project is
$280,192.
3.  The pecuniary interests of Gordon Maiden, John Crison, Elke Lipka,
Jae-Seung Kim, and John Hilfinger arise from their status as officers, stockholders, or employees of TSRL. None of these persons is connected with the
performance of the project. The project director, Ellen Zimmerman, M.D., is
a full-time University of Michigan employee who has no pecuniary or other
interest in TSRL.
Recommendation for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Horning, and on
the recommendation of the executive board of the University of Michigan
Hospitals, the Regents unanimously approved a number of appointments to
medical staff membership.
Granting of Authority to Executive Vice President for Medical Affairs
General Counsel Barry explained that since the position of executive
vice president for medical affairs (EVPMA) is not described in the bylaws,
the EVPMA must be granted certain authority to fulfill the responsibilities of
the position. The position description for the EVPMA will be incorporated
into an overall revision of the bylaws planned for the near future.
President Bollinger announced that he was withdrawing the request for
removal of the word "executive" from the titles of executive vice president
for medical affairs, provost and executive vice president for academic affairs,
and executive vice president and chief financial officer.
Regent Power moved that until such time as the Regents' Bylaws are
amended to specifically delineate the authority of the executive vice president for
medical affairs, the Regents grant all authority necessary under the bylaws for
the executive vice president for medical affairs to carry out the responsibilities of
the position as approved by the Regents on November 15, 1996. Regent McFee
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Power made the following motion:
Pursuant to Sections 8(e) and 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202 and 1996 PA 464, I move that the Board of
Regents meet in closed session on September 18, 1997, in the Regents'
Room, for the purposes of consulting with our attorney regarding trial
or settlement strategy in connection with specific pending litigation
(section 8e) and of considering material exempt from discussion or
disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act (section 8h).
Such exempt material consists of a written opinion from the Board's
legal counsel.


104




September Meeting, 1997


Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Following a five-minute break, the meeting continued in executive session,
beginning at 3:15 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents met in open session at 4:00 p.m. for Public Comments and
heard comments from Elaine McDaniel, president of AFSCME Local 1583,
about negotiations between the University of Michigan and AFSCME Local
1583.
Adjournment
Then, there being no further regular business, the meeting continued in
executive session from 4:10 to 5:35 p.m. Regents' expenses for August 1997
totaled $2,372.43. The next meeting is scheduled for October 16-17, 1997.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


105




OCTOBER MEETING, 1997


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Friday, October 17, 1997
The Regents convened at 9:45 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Interim Executive Vice
President Matthews, Provost Cantor, Vice President Harrison, Vice President
Hartford, Vice President Kinnear, Interim Vice President Neidhardt,
Chancellor Nelms, Chancellor Renick, Interim Co-General Counsel Barry,
and Secretary Palmer. Executive Vice President Omenn was absent.
External Audit Report
Executive Vice President Matthews noted that Ernst & Young LLP had
conducted the annual University audits for the year ended June 30, 1997,
and had issued a management letter. He called on Mr. Carl Smith, director
of University Audits, who introduced Mr. Robert Emde, of Ernst & Young.
Mr. Emde introduced his colleagues who helped conduct the audit: Mr.
George Johnson, Mr. Harold Miller, and Mr. Steve Staelin. He noted that
Mr. Staelin would succeed him in the role of coordinating partner responsible
for the firm's audit of the University's financial statements, beginning with
the 1997-98 audit.
Mr. Emde stated that the audit completed on August 8, 1997, expresses an
unqualified opinion on the University's financial statements. The accounting
principles and the magnitude and extent of year-end closing entries were
consistent with prior years, and there were no unadjusted differences that
would have had a material effect on the respective funds comprising the
financial statements for 1997. Audits were also conducted and reported on
the separate financial statements for the Clinical Delivery System, Dental
Faculty Associates, the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics, the
Executive Education Center of the School of Business Administration,
M-Care, Veritas, the Alumni Association, the William Davidson Institute, and
the University Musical Society. Reports on each of these financial statements
are also unqualified.
Mr. Emde noted that the management letter states that a review of the
internal control structure disclosed no material weaknesses in procedures
and controls. He pointed out that the recommendations set forth in the
management letter are intended as constructive suggestions to further
strengthen the University's procedures and controls. In each instance, the
University has concurred with the recommendation, and Ernst & Young
believes the University's responses are appropriate. He also noted that
appropriate actions have been taken with respect to each recommendation in
the 1996 management letter.


107




October Meeting, 1997


Regent McFee commented that she was particularly pleased to note that
the University is especially careful in its oversight of reports from its custodian
bank in connection with its alternative investments.
Regent Power said that he hopes that the question of whether the
University should generate a capital budget will be addressed in the near
future, both in terms of internal practice and in terms of recommendations
from independent auditors. He noted that although capital budgets had not
been drawn up in the past, the University's cash flow and capacity to issue
paper have reached the point at which it can internally control capital activities
to a far greater extent than was possible previously. He expressed the hope
that Ernst & Young would be helpful to the new executive vice president and
chief financial officer and other staff in addressing this issue.
Regent Taylor requested that the Regents receive regular progress
reports and a schedule describing how the University is addressing the "Year
2000 Problem." Mr. Matthews responded that this can certainly be done.
He noted that this is not only a problem for the University's own internal
systems, but also for its vendors and others who deal with the University.
Regent Taylor also requested to see the letter that had been sent to the
University's vendors and suppliers requesting information about how they
were dealing with this problem, as well as the list of the letter's recipients.
Regent Power indicated that the Board does not have an audit committee,
and therefore he would encourage the auditors to discuss any matters of
concern with any member of the Board. Mr. Emde responded that there was
nothing at this time that needed to be discussed with the Board, other than
in public session.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted the minutes of the September
1997 meeting.
Reports. Executive Vice President Matthews submitted Reports of
Investment, Plant Extension, Litigation, Human Resources and Affirmative
Action, and Non-Competitive Purchases over $5,000 from Single Sources from
July 1 through September 30, 1997. He noted that the August investment
performance highlights how a diversified portfolio benefits the institution.
He called on Associate Vice President Herbert, who gave a report highlighting
the August performance of investments. Mr. Herbert pointed out that
despite the world-wide weakness in financial markets, the University's Long
Term Portfolio had performed well, with all of its stock and bond managers
outperforming their respective benchmarks and adding value to their
portfolios.
Regarding the Plant Extension Report, Regent Newman asked that
future reports also include the names of the architect under the "architect
appointed" section of the report.


108




October Meeting, 1997


Vice President Neidhardt submitted a report on projects established for
September 1997.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted a report of
voluntary support. Regent Newman asked whether the University would be
responding to a challenge made by Ira Harris at the recent Campaign for
Michigan celebration to increase the campaign goal to $2 billion by the year
2000. Mr. Harris had offered to make an additional gift of $2 million to
begin a new drive. Vice President Kinnear noted that the $2 billion figure
will probably be approached in the general course of donor solicitation, but
whether or not the University is still involved in an official fundraising
campaign is a different issue.
President Bollinger noted that while the University is very appreciative
of Mr. Harris' support of the institution, the general issue of whether to
pursue a capital campaign raises complex institutional issues that need to be
carefully considered. It is best to consider the recent Campaign for Michigan
as completed. However, Mr. Harris' generosity is greatly appreciated.
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration................ $ 5,000
Andrew Abel, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex and the Women's Basketball Fund in the
Department of Athletics.......................................................5.,250
Adac Plastics, Inc., Grand Rapids
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 15,000
Keith E. Alessi, Lexington, Virginia
5,065 shares of Jackson Hewitt, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Keith E. and Valerie J. Alessi Fund and other support in the School of
Business Administration......................................................  178,160
Rick Allen, Roslyn, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts......................................................................  10,540
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School................................................ 49,111
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for the American foundation for Pharmaceutical Education Fellowship in the
College  of Pharm acy............................................................ 15,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts.....................................................................  208,380
American Society for Quality Control, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the National Quality Research Center in the School of Business Administration..... 50,000
Andersen Consulting, London, England
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute in the College of Engineering................. 10,000
William J. Anderson, Ann Arbor
for research  in the College of Engineering......................................... 15,000
Anonymous Donor
7,390 shares of Waste Management, Inc., common stock
for the Dissertation Research Award Endowment in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..........................................................  235,556
Anonymous Donor
for endowment support in the Law School....................................... 100,000
Margaret B. Arnold, Blakely, Georgia
210 shares of Sun Trust Banks, Inc., and
170 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock
for support in  the Medical School................................................. 22,903


109




October Meeting, 1997


Floyd R. and Helen A. Arnold Trust
2,965 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Harry D. and Bessie D. Solomon Athletic Scholarship in the Department
of Athletics, for the Lloyd H. And Virginia L. Arnold Music Scholarship in the
School of Music, for the Lloyd H. Arnold and Harry D. and Bessie D. Solomon
Cancer Research Fund in the Medical School, and for the Virginia L. Arnold
Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................... 145,246
Virginia L. Arnold Estate
57,540 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Harry D. and Bessie D. Solomon Athletic Scholarship in the Department
of Athletics, for the Lloyd H. And Virginia L. Arnold Music Scholarship in the
School of Music, for the Lloyd H. Arnold and Harry D. and Bessie D. Solomon
Cancer Research Fund in the Medical School; and for the Virginia L. Arnold
Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 1,227,417
Atlas Tool, Inc., Roseville
for the Neurology Endowed Professorship in the Medical School and for the Schmidt
Family Scholarships in the College of Engineering and the Medical School............. 70,000
Morris and Beverly Baker Foundation, Windsor, Ontario, Canada
for the Beverly Franzblau Baker Scholarship in the School of Music................... 25,000
Barclays Bank PLC, London, England
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 10,000
Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Santa Ana, California
for support in  the M edical School................................................. 16,650
Bertsch Family Trust
4,065 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Margaret Bertsch Research Fund in the Medical School..................... 123,476
John C. Brier Estate
for the  Grace  Brier  Scholarship.................................................... 5,713
Jenet K. Brown Estate
for the Meyer M. and Donald J. Brown Memorial Fund.............................. 50,000
Ian R. N. Bund, Ann Arbor
400 shares of Borders Group common stock
for the University  Musical Society................................................   10,713
Doris N. Caddell, Ann Arbor
for the Robert Caddell Memorial Scholarship in the College of Engineering and
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center, in memory of Mary Margaret Colwell............ 5,100
Carls Foundation, Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund.................................. 125,000
David E. A. Carson, Bridgeport, Connecticut
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.............................. 5,000
John Carver, Brighton
for the Environmental and Global Change Education Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the  Arts.................................................. 7,500
Centerior Energy Community Program, Cleveland, Ohio
for  em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................... 5,000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for the Chevron Fellowship and the Chemical Engineering Undergraduate
Scholarship in the College of Engineering, and for employee matching gifts............ 17,750
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Life-Actuarial Sciences Fund in the Department of Mathematics,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................... 5,000
Citicorp Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 20,000
Civitas Initiative, Chicago, Illinois
for the Civitas Scholarships in the School of Social Work............................. 60,000
Clevite Elastomers, Milan, Ohio
for research  in the College of Engineering......................................... 32,450
Ralph F. Colton, Chicago, Illinois
five shares of Berkshire Hathaway common stock
for the Bernard W. Agranoff Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School.......... 237,250
Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York
for support in the Medical School................................................  13,500
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support in the School of Social Work........................................... 30,930
Carl S. Conlon Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 50,000


110




October Meeting, 1997


George R. Corey, Millbrae, California
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 20,000
Corvas International, San Diego, California
for research  in  the M edical School................................................10,000
Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School................................................. 9,875
Frances A. Danforth Estate
for support in  the  School of Music................................................25,903
Cameron Davis Estate
for the Richard P. Mitchell Memorial Prize Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts............................................................ 69,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the  Medical School................................................15,000
Delta Dental Fund, Okemos
for the Delta Dental Scholarship in the School of Dentistry............................ 8,000
J. Craig DeNooyer, Kalamazoo
300 shares of Ottawa Financial Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 7,713
Detroit Free Press, Inc., Detroit
for the Detroit Free Press Dean's Merit Scholarship and the Minority Workshop
Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 25,000
Walt Disney Company, Burbank, California
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment..................... 10,000
Edward Domino, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School, for support in the School of Music and
for  the  U niversity  Library........................................................ 5,200
Donnelly Corporation, Holland
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for  em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................... 5,112
ELF Atochem North America Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 15,170
Epker-Percival Charitable Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the MBA Peace Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration.............. 10,000
Ernst & Young, Lyndhurst, New Jersey
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
Fel-Pro, Inc., Skokie, Illinois
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,000
Oscar H. Feldman, Birmingham
165 shares of Orbotech, Ltd., common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics........................ 9,199
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Consortium for Graduate Study in Management in the School of
Business Administration, and for employee matching gifts......................... 259,420
Brian J. French, Sheboygan, Wisconsin
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center,
and for the Mary Lou Willard French Professorship in the School of Nursing......... 114,129
James L. French, Sheboygan, Wisconsin
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center,
and for the Mary Lou Willard French Professorship in the School of Nursing........... 55,653
Paul F. Gelter, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 5,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for industrial engineering support in the College of Engineering...................... 13,000
Dick Genthe Chevrolet, Southgate
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund.................................... 10,000
Gerber Companies Foundation, Fremont
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 5,000
Ernest Getz, Pleasant Ridge
70 shares of Chevron Corporation common stock
for support of the  Law   School..................................................... 5,215
Rodolfo U. Ham, Flint
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School............. 10,000


111




October Meeting, 1997


J. Ira and Nicki Harris Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Benny Friedman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics and for the
John Stephenson Perrin Professorship, the John W. Sweetland Professorship and
the Dean's Distinguished Professorship in Humanities, College of Literature,
Science, and  the Arts..........................................................  606,000
A. B. Heller, Inc., Milford
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................. 10,000
Francis E. Heydt, Miami, Oklahoma
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics............................... 10,000
LaRue T. Hosmer, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
Ideation, Inc., Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics............................. 5,000
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for fellowships in the College of Engineering; and for research in the Center for
Japanese Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 15,500
Indian Trail Charitable Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Askwith Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 68,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for electrical and computer science engineering fellowships in the College of
Engineering...................................................................59,400
Isis Pharmaceuticals, Carlsbad, California
for support in the College of Pharmacy............................................25,000
Gretchen N. Jackson, Ann Arbor
66 shares of Mobil common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics, the School of Music and the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies, the Museum of Art and the University Library...................... 5,076
Marjorie M. Jackson, Pittsford, Vermont
150 shares of E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company common stock
for the Entrepreneurial Initiatives in Nursing Systems Fund in the School of Nursing...... 9,375
Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Sepphoris Exhibition Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 7,500
Larry L. Johnson, Orchard Lake
500 shares of Valassis Communications common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 14,938
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contributions Fund, Princeton, New Jersey
for research  in the College of Pharmacy........................................... 20,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health; and for the Center for
Political Studies in the Institute for Social Research.............................. 421,420
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the School of Social Work........................................  103,830
E. John Justema, Jr., Hinsdale, Illinois
300 shares of Walgreen Company and 100 shares of Alza Corporation common stock
for scholarships and the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics..... 11,116
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the  M edical School................................................. 9,399
Richard Katcher, Beachwood, Ohio
for the Katcher Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit
of the Department of Athletics and the Law School................................ 100,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in  the School of Information.........................................  500,000
James S. Kemper Foundation, Long Grove, Illinois
for the Institute of Environmental and Industrial Health in the School of Public
H ealth......................................................................... 5,000
Latzer Keydel Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School................................ 10,000
Knight Foundation, Miami, Florida
12,300 shares of Knight Ridder, Inc., common stock
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies....................................................  644,213
Korea Foundation, Seoul, Korea
for the Korean Foundation Professorship of Korean Studies in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................... 300,000
Sylvia M. Kosciolek, Grand Blanc
for support in the Medical School.................................................. 7,500


112




October Meeting, 1997


Richard P. Kughn, Farmington Hills
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics............................... 25,000
Chu Yong Lee, Seoul, Korea
for the Korean Studies Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 20,015
Lemmon Company, Kulpsville, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School................................................ 47,500
Liberace Foundation for the Performing Arts, Las Vegas, Nevada
for the Adam I. Goldstein Fund in the Medical School, in memory of Ron Goldstein...... 9,900
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Balitmore, Maryland
for research  in  the  M edical School.................................................8,750
Life Trends, Inc., Vero Beach, Florida
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research................... 10,000
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Office of Career Development in the School of Business Administration......... 20,000
Arthur D. Little, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts
for the Little Family Foundation Fellowships in the School of Business Administration.... 25,000
Lubrizol Foundation, Wickliffe, Ohio
for chemical engineering support and the Macromolecular Research Center in the
College of Engineering, and for chemistry support in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts............................................................. 5,500
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 100,000
Alice Van Petten Lyon Revocable Trust
for support in  the Medical School.............................................. 5,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Farmington Hills
for the University  Musical Society................................................ 10,000
Marian M. Malone Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 10,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for biology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 10,000
Marilyn Mason Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Organ Enrichment Fund in the School of Music............................... 9,000
Frederick C. Matthaei, Jr., Birmingham
226 shares of Kellogg Company common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics....................... 10,114
Oscar G. and Elsa S. Mayer Charitable Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
McGregor Family Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Max and Hedwig Aupperle Travel Award Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................ 12,500
Zelpha McKinnon, Flint
for the Library Acquisition Endowment in the Frances Willson Thompson Library
and for the Zelpha E. McKinnon Law Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint... 451,243
McNamara Charity Fund, Grosse Pointe Farms
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................................. 5,500
John R. McWilliams, Ann Arbor
for the Beth McWilliams Scholarship in the School of Information..................... 5,000
Marylouise D. Meder, Emporia, Kansas
for alumni society scholarships in the School of Information.......................... 10,000
Medtronic, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Children's Cancer Research Fund in the University Hospitals................... 5,000
Michigan Fire Sprinkler Contractors, St. Clair Shores
for the Trauma Burn Center Firefighter's Fund in the Medical School................. 25,000
Mika, Meyers, Beckett & Jones, Grand Rapids
for  W UOM /W VGR............................................................... 5,200
Jerome J. Miller Estate
for support in  the Medical School...............................................  200,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment..................... 30,000
Sarah Morgan Fund, Flint
for the Carl and Sarah Morgan Honors Scholarship and the Carl and Sarah
Morgan Theatre Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint...................... 16,900
David Moscow-Linda Moscow Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for research in the School of Business Administration............................... 11,100


113




October Meeting, 1997


Alberta Muirhead, Dearborn
678 shares of Kmart common stock
for the Honors Program in the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn............................................... 10,064
Irene M. Myers, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Art and Design........................................ 10,000
NBD Bank, N.A., Flint
for the Douglas L. Wright Memorial Scholarship at the University of
Michigan-Flint and for WFUM-TV............................................... 6,000
Ann L. Nickoll, Beverly Hills, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 10,000
Nike, Inc., Beaverton, Oregon
for the Nike Athletic Scholarship for Women and the Nike Women's Basketball
Scholarship in the Department of Athletics, and for the Sports Reporting
Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.................... 52,500
Northern Star Foundation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 25,000
NSK Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society, and for employee matching gifts................... 5,100
Calvin Patterson Trust
for the Joseph E. Maddy Scholarship in the School of Music..........................15,000
Dorothy K. Peckham, Hendersonville, North Carolina
for  the  Clem ents  Library......................................................... 5,000
Gladys A. Penzenhagen Estate
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical School.......... 7,996
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Inc., Washington, DC
for research, scholarships and fellowships in the College of Pharmacy................. 12,000
Pharmacia and Upjohn, Inc., Kalamazoo
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration................... 7,500
N. Michael Plaut Estate
for  support of the  Law   School.................................................... 25,000
Evelyn Ponitz, Battle Creek
309 shares of Bristol-Myers-Squibb common stock
for the Paul V. Ponitz Orthodontic Lectureship Fund in the School of Dentistry........ 24,488
Pritzker Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School..............................................  300,150
QAD, Inc., Mt. Laurel, New Jersey
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
John 0. Robertson, Clayton, Georgia
13,555 shares of various corporate common stock
for the John 0. Robertson Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the Ruth Lobdell Endowed Scholarship................................. 104,956
Marguerite Roll Estate
45,218 shares of Kellogg Company common stock
for the Lyle C. Roll Fund in the Medical School.................................. 2,006,559
Jack Roth Charitable Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Jack Roth Scholarship and other support in the Department of Athletics........ 40,000
Judith Dow Rumelhart, Ann Arbor
for support in  the  School of Music................................................. 5,000
SAE International, Warrendale, Pennsylvania
for the Seating Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation Research Institute... 135,000
Michael A. Sakkinen, San Jose, California
for the Michael A. and Joan Sakkinen Accounting Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration........................................................ 50,000
Santen Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Osaka, Japan
for ophthalmology research in the Medical School................................... 50,000
Hugh F. Schaefer Estate
for undergraduate student aid.................................................... 68,480
Schlumberger Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Schlumberger Foundation Collegiate Scholarship in the College of
E ngineering.................................................................... 6,000
Stanley S. Schwartz, Southfield
for the Stanley S. Schwartz Fund in the Law School................................. 50,000
John Butler Schwemm, Longboat Key, Florida
1,225 shares of R. R. Donnelley & Sons Company common stock
for the John Butler Schwemm Fund in the Law School.............................. 47,698


114




October Meeting, 1997


Benson P. Shapiro, Concord, Massachusetts
875 shares of Scopus Technologies common stock
for gifts pending  designation............................................. 20,234
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
1,600 shares of Kinder Morgan Energy Partners common stock
for the Donald R. Shepherd Women's Athletic Scholarship in the Department
of Athletics..................................................................  113,700
Edwin J. Shoemaker, Monroe
for the Marilyn Mason Scholarship in Organ in the School of Music................... 5,000
Siemens Automotive Corporation, Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
Archie Slawsby Charitable Remainder Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan................................5,000
Herbert Sloan, Jr., Trust
for the Sloan Memorial Fund in the Museum of Art................................. 10,000
Stephen G. Solomon, Scarsdale, New York
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics........................ 6,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education, and for the Center for Group Dynamics
in the Institute for Social Research............................................. 171,839
Sprint Corporation, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration..................25,000
Irvin Stern Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Comprehensive Studies Program in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the Arts................................................................... 27,200
Victor L. Streeter, Ann Arbor
60 shares of Amoco common stock
for the Victor L. Streeter Fellowship in the College of Engineering..................... 5,873
Sunglo Restoration Services, Inc., Dearborn Heights
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical School.......... 5,700
TAP foldings, Inc., Deerfield, Illinois
for the Urology Resident Education and Research Fund in the Medical School........... 5,300
A. Alfred Taubman, Bloomfield Hills
for the Alfred  Taubman  Scholarship.............................................. 39,174
Tenneco Management Company, Houston, Texas
for  em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................... 5,000
Texaco Philanthropic Foundation, Inc., White Plains, New York
for the Institute of Environmental and Industrial Health in the School of Public
H ealth......................................................................... 5,000
Noel M. Tichy, Ann Arbor
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of
Business Adm inistration........................................................ 85,000
Mary L. Tiffany, Ann Arbor
40 shares of Texas Instruments common stock
for physics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 5,360
Toledo Hospital, Toledo, Ohio
for the Caroline B. Jobst Laboratory in the Medical School......................... 170,000
Torrey Foundation, Del Mar, California
for optical sciences research in the College of Engineering......................... 100,521
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc., Torrance, California
for student aid in the School of Business Administration and for employee
m atching  gifts................................................................. 10,036
Emmet and Frances Tracy Fund, Grosse Pointe Farms
for support of the Law  School.....................................................  5,000
Trenton Firefighters Local 2701, Trenton
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund and the Trauma
Burn Center Firefighter's Fund in the Medical School............................... 23,313
Stefan Tucker, Washington, DC
3,123 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Stefan and Marilyn Tucker Scholarship in the Law School..................... 99,937
Union Pump Company, Battle Creek
for the MBA Peace Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration.............. 40,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Lucile B. Conger Group, Ann Arbor
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship................................................   8,750
University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Washington, DC
for the University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Scholarship.................. 11,000


115




October Meeting, 1997


Agnes H. Ure Estate
for support in  the  Medical School................................................. 60,000
UroCor, Inc., Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
for the Michigan Prostate Institute Research and Education Fund in the Medical
School....................................................................... 22,000
Valeo Automotive, Inc., Livonia
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
Paula French Van Akkeren, Sheboygan
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center,
and for the Mary Lou Willard French Professorship in the School of Nursing............ 5,097
Richard J. Vogel, Topeka, Kansas
for support in the Medical School................................................. 27,607
Cleveland Walcutt, Bloomfield Hills
9,360 shares of Exxon Corporation common stock
for the Walcutt Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit
of the Department of Neurology in the Medical School............................. 578,273
Charles W. Walton, Jr., Dillon, Montana
500 shares of Bionet, Inc., common stock
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 12,156
Mrs. Charles W. Walton, Jr., Dillon, Montana
500 shares of Bionet common stock
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 12,156
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for the Distinguished Professorship of Oncology and the Heart Care M-Fit
Restaurant Program Fund in the Medical School, for biostatistics support in
the School of Public Health, for support in the College of Engineering and
for the University  Musical Society................................................ 94,709
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee  m atching  gifts...................................................... 19,799
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School, for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift
Fund, and for the University Musical Society........................................ 5,894
Webb Foundation, La Jolla, California
for the Jeanette and Byron B. Webb, Jr., Scholarship in the School of Business
A dm inistration................................................................  10,000
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the National Pollution Prevention Center in the School of Natural Resources
and  Environm ent................................................................ 5,000
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for the Office for Career Development in the School of Business Administration........ 20,000
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship, Princeton, New Jersey
for the APPAM/Sloan Fellowship in the School of Public Policy....................... 27,000
Xerox Corporation, Webster, New York
for the Fluidics Research Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 10,000
Jerome B. York, Las Vegas, Nevada
7,300 shares of International Business Machines common stock
for the Jerome B. and Eilene M. York Professorship in the School of Business
A dm inistration...............................................................  755,322
Jerome B. and Eilene M. York Foundation, Las Vegas, Nevada
for the Jerome B. and Eilene M. York Professorship in the School of Business
Adm inistration...............................................................  445,000
Morton M. Zedd, Richmond, Virginia
for  support of the  Law   School....................................................  10,000
Lawrence Ziliak Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 10,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Alfred Berkowitz, Birmingham
jewelry and glass works for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Berkowitz Gallery
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
592 items of new and used furniture for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Julie Colish, Flint
a Hal Larsen collage for the English department
John H. D'Arms, Ann Arbor
265 books for the Department of Classical Studies


116




October Meeting, 1997


GM Powertrain Flint, Flint
data acquisition equipment for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Ronald A. Marabate, Okemos
an AMF Force S sailboat with a trailer and associated equipment for Camp Michigania
Optical Imaging Systems, Northville
various equipment for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Eric Quist, Ann Arbor
a selection of engineering books and journals for the Department of Materials Science and
Engineering
Thomas G. Varbedian, Bloomfield Hills
a Howmar Phantom sailboat for Camp Michigania
Ellen Bonar Wilt, Ann Arbor
three artworks by Richard Wilt for the Michigan League
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:


Alucobond Technologies, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri
Leila R. Avrin, Jerusalem, Israel
Robin Barlow, Ann Arbor
Robert B. Barsky, Ann Arbor
Sue Bergstrom, Santa Barbara, California
Virginia Chase Bloetscher, Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio
Michael D. Cohen, Ann Arbor
Michael Cook, Dearborn
Paul N. Courant, Ann Arbor
Robert Danly Estate
Alan V. Deardorff, Ann Arbor
Danielle Desplan, New York, New York
Ellie Diez-Massard, Maitland, Florida
John D. Dillery, Charlottesville, Virginia
Frame Factory, Ann Arbor
Daniel R. Fusfeld, Ann Arbor
John Gerych, Fenton
Puzant Granian, Whittier, California
Ann E. Hanson, Ann Arbor
Miles Kimball, Ann Arbor
Jan Kmenta, Ann Arbor
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
Sandra L. Kortesoja, Ann Arbor


Kenneth Leach, Brattleboro, Vermont
Jeffrey K. Mackie-Mason, Ann Arbor
William M. Mikkelsen, Ann Arbor
Lawrence B. Mohr, Reading, Pennsylvania
Mothers Against Drunk Driving, Grand Blanc
Nematron Corporation, Ann Arbor
Neurocom International, Inc., Clackamas, Oregon
Lillian G. Ostrand, Ann Arbor
Diran Papazian, Southfield
Richard Porter, Ann Arbor
Marjorie Reade, Ann Arbor
Matthew D. Shapiro, Ann Arbor
Joel B. Slemrod, Ann Arbor
Gary Solon, Ann Arbor
Robert M. Stern, Ann Arbor
Wolfgang F. Stolper, Ann Arbor
Oscar Tatosian, Evanston, Illinois
Joy Ulmer, Jeddo
Janet A. Weiss, Ann Arbor
Thomas E. Weisskopf, Ann Arbor
Michelle J. White, Ann Arbor
Clarence Wolf, Gladwyne, Pennsylvania


Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted a number of personnel
actions.  President Bollinger highlighted the recommendation for the
appointment of Robert Kasdin as executive vice president and chief financial
officer. Provost Cantor noted the proposed appointment of Pamela Raymond
as faculty associate provost in her office.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Murphy, Susan A., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Statistics, January 1, 1998
Rocchini, Albert P., M.D., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, October 17, 1997


117




October Meeting, 1997


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1997
Killeen, Mary B., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Nursing, UM-Flint, three year term
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Berger, Candyce S., reappointed Assistant Dean of Hospital Social Work Services, School of
Social Work, three-year term, September 1, 1997
Carignan, George R., from Associate Dean for Graduate Education and Research, College of
Engineering, to Associate Dean for Research, College of Engineering, January 1, 1998 -August 31, 1999
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective October 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Jacobson, Jed J., from Director of Admissions, School of Dentistry, to Assistant Dean for
Community and Outreach Programs, School of Dentistry, five-year term
Khargonekar, Pramod P., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, and the Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, also appointed Chair, Department of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, five-year term
Raymond, Pamela A., Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, Medical School,
also appointed Associate Provost-Academic and Faculty Affairs, November 1, 1997
Woolfolk, Marilyn W., from Director of Student Affairs, School of Dentistry, to Assistant
Dean for Student Services, School of Dentistry, five-year term
Yates, J. Frank, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, also appointed Professor of Business Administration, without tenure, School of
Business Administration, five-year term, November 1, 1997
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Stein, Louise K., Associate Professor of Music (Musicology), scholarly activity leave extended,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Van Houweling, Douglas E., Vice Provost for Academic Outreach and Information
Technology, Dean, for Academic Outreach, Office of the Provost and Professor of
Information, School of Information, personal leave extended, November 19, 1997 -November 18, 1999
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Ellsworth, Phoebe C., Professor of Law, with tenure, and the Kirkland and Ellis Professor of
Law, Law School, and Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature,


118




October Meeting, 1997


Science, and the Arts, also appointed the Robert B. Zajonc Professor of Psychology,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five-year term
Kasdin, Robert A., Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, November 17, 1997
Wu, Chien-Fu J., Professor of Statistics, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Statistics,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Industrial and Operations
Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, also appointed the Harry Clyde
Carver Professor of Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five-year term
Associate Dean for Graduate Education. The Regents approved the
establishment of the new position of Associate Dean for Graduate Education in
the College of Engineering, effective January 1, 1998.
Donald A. Kerr Endowed Collegiate Professorship in Dentistry.
The Regents approved the establishment of the Donald A. Kerr Endowed
Collegiate Professorship in Dentistry, effective October 1, 1997.
Marion    Elizabeth    Blue Professor of Children        and Families.
The Regents approved the establishment of the Marion Elizabeth Blue
Professor of Children and Families in the School of Social Work, effective
November 1, 1997.
Marshall Sahlins Collegiate Professorship in History and
Anthropology. The Regents approved the establishment of the Marshall
Sahlins Collegiate Professorship in History and Anthropology, effective
July 1, 1997.
Committee Appointments. The following committee appointments
were submitted:
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Daniels, Danielle F., student representative, retroactive reappointment, July 1, 1997 -June 30, 1999
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Barry, Anita K., retroactive appointment, July 1, 1997-June 30, 2000, vice Orin G.
Gelderloos, term expired
Weiss, Janet A., retroactive appointment, July 1, 1997-June 30, 2000, vice Stephen L.
Darwall, term expired
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Inam, Aseem, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Urban Planning
School of Business Administration
Coval, Joshua D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of International Business and Finance
School of Dentistry
Cueto, Nisrin B., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, October 1, 1997
da Fonseca, Marcio A., D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry
Hill, Elliott E., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry


119




October Meeting, 1997


School of Education
Pinkard, Nichole, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education
Schumer, Beverly A., M.A., Lecturer in Education
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Alvarez-Garcia, Sergio, Licenciate, Lecturer I in Spanish
Antonello, Tasha, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Baroni, Raphael, License, Lecturer II in French
Barreales, Marta, M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish
Bashir, Elena L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Chinese Languages
Beal, Scott W., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Bender, John E., M.A., Lecturer I in Chemistry
Bielek, Pascale H., B.A., Lecturer I in French
Bowen, Eugene J., B.S., Lecturer I in Mathematics
Brueck, Sandra I., M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Butler-Borruat, Roger E., M.A., Lecturer I in French
Carson, John S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History
Caskey, Rachel N., B.S., Lecturer I in Chemistry
Chamberlin, Richard W., Ph.D., Lecturer II in German, Residential College
Christensen, Kenneth A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Chemistry
Christensen, Mary C., Ph.D., Lecturer I in French
Coleman, Sheilah L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Contreras, Francisco, Master, Lecturer II in Spanish
Croise, Florian L., M.A., Lecturer II in French
Crutchfield, Susan, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Davis, Christopher G., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology
Doherty, Amy F., M.A., Lecturer II in Women's Studies
Ellis, Susan, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Political Science
Eschrich, Gabriella M., M.A., Lecturer II in Italian
Fulton, John W., B.A., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature
Gallagher, Richard, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Giralt, Alicia, Masters, Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures
Gonciulea, Nicolae, B.S. Lecturer II in Mathematics
Gonzalez, Maria, M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish
Grande, Laura S., Ph.D., Lecturer in Chinese Language
Green, Jack G., B.S., Lecturer I in Chemistry
Guardiola-Diaz, Hebe M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Biology
Halpern, Jill E., M.S., Lecturer I in Mathematics
Halverson, Cathryn L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Hasso, Frances S., M.A., Lecturer II in Sociology
Heininger, Joseph, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature,
Herold, Kristen F., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English
Hickman, Miranda B., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Kearns, Josie, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Kim, Hae-young, M.A., Lecturer II in Korean Language
Kinnen, Ryan M., Lecturer I in Film and Video Studies
Lamm, Doron, B.A., Lecturer II in Hebrew Language
Laughlin, Gregory P., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics.
Lundin, Deanne C., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Lupercio, Ernesto, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Malachowska-Pasek, Ewa, M.A., Lecturer II in Polish Culture and Literature
Mangiafico, James D., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Philosophy
Mardon, Mary T., M.A., Lecturer I in Philosophy
Matthews, Sebastian, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
McAlister-Raeburn, Clare, M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish
McCollum, Steven A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Biology
Miller, Claudia M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Mohr, Joseph J., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Astronomy
Moutinou, Juliette K., M.A., Lecturer II in French
Nitz, David F., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics
Novero, Cecilia, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures
O'Keefe, Vincent A., M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature


120




October Meeting, 1997


Omoto, Yasuhiro, M.A., Lecturer II in Japanese Languages
Orecchio, Michelle R., M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish
Palen, Joseph J., M.A., Lecturer in Mathematics
Pavgi, Sushama, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Biology
Piva, Maria P., Masters, Lecturer I in Italian
Price, Margaret B., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Purdy, Carolina B., B.A., Lecturer I in Spanish
Radhakrishnan, Sankaran, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Tamil
Reeser, Todd W., Ph.D., Lecturer in Romance Languages and Literatures
Seto, Catherine L., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Smith, Adelaide, M.A., Lecturer I in Italian
Smith, Katherine B., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Spanish
Stone, David L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies
Tappenden, James P. Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy
Tessier, Randall L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Thornton, Kevin P., Ph.D., Lecturer II in History
Torres, Lourdes I., M.A.T., Lecturer I in Spanish, Residential College
Traphagan, Tomoko W., M.A., Lecturer I in Japanese Language
Twiss, Ian S. R., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English
Vainshtein, Olga B., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Women's Studies
Weinberg, William D., M.A., Lecturer II in Political Science
Weizman, Paula, M.S.W., Lecturer II in Hebrew Language
Willette, Thomas C., Ph.D., Lecturer II in History of Art, Residential College
Wolbert, Jerome, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Wong, Maria M., Ph.D., Lecturer I Psychology
Yanming, An, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Chinese Language and Literature
Youkilis, Ivanka S., Masters, Lecturer I in Italian
Zwiep, Mary N., Ph.D., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature
Medical School
Brechtelsbauer, Paul B., M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1997
Badran, Sarah, M.B.B.Ch., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Beser, Donald S., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Ophthalmology
Foley-Reickert, Eileen M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, September 8, 1997
Goldberg, Caren S., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, September 15, 1997
Lin, Wendy, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
August 28, 1997
Mooradian, Dawn E., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, September 8, 1997
Paik, Juliana S., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
August 18, 1997
Ramnath, Suresh, M.B.B.S., Clinical Instructor II in Neurosurgery, July 1, 1997
School of Music
Hammond, Wendy, M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Theatre and Drama, School of Music, and
Lecturer III in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
School of Nursing
Belden, Maureen K., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing
Michelini, Claire A., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Remski, Joan C., Ph.D., Lecturer in Mathematics
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Kridli, Ghassan T., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems
Engineering
Ray, Indrajit, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Science
Watta, Paul B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
UM-Flint School of Management
Gondhalekar, Vijay B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Finance


121




October Meeting, 1997


CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Benki, Jose R., Ph.D., Instructor in Linguistics, September 1, 1997 (previously reported as
Assistant Professor of Linguistics
Tortora, Christina M., Ph.D., Instructor in Linguistics, September 1, 1997 (previously
reported as Assistant Professor of Linguistics)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Krishnan, Mayuram S., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Business Administration
Zeynep, Gurhan, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Marketing
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Genne, Beth, from Lecturer III to Assistant Professor of Art History, Residential College
Levine, Noga M., from Lecturer II to Assistant Professor of Political Science
Oswald, Gilbert T., II, Lecturer II in Communications/Film, Residential College, also
appointed Lecturer in Education, School of Education
Medical School
Taylor, Caroline L., M.D., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal
Medicine, July 1, 1997
College of Pharmacy
Mehta, Varsha, from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Pharmacy
UM-Flint School of Management
Waddington, Barbara A., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Accounting
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective September 1-December 31, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
College of Engineering
Glysson, Eugene A., Professor Emeritus of Civil and Environmental Engineering
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Hafter, Monroe Z., Professor Emeritus of Spanish
Medical School
Castelli, Walter A., Professor Emeritus of Anatomy and Cell Biology
School of Music
Malm, William P., Professor Emeritus of Music (Music History/Musicology)
College of Pharmacy
De Leon, Richard F., Associate Professor Emeritus of Pharmacy, October 1-December 31, 1997


122




October Meeting, 1997


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1-May 31, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
School of Art and Design
Cogswell, James A., Jr., Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997
School of Business Administration
Andrews, Richard W., Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure, School of Business
Administration, and Associate Professor of Statistics, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave
Olson, Judith S. R., Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure, School of
Business Administration, Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Information, without tenure, School
of Information, sabbatical leave
School of Education
To, Cho-Yee, Professor of Education, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1997 -May 31, 1998
College of Engineering
Chaffin, Don B., G. Lawton and Louise G. Johnson Professor of Engineering, Professor of
Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, and Professor of Occupational
Health, without tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave
Conway, Lynn, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Fogler, H. Scott, the Vennema Professor of Chemical Engineering and Professor of Chemical
Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Pan, Jwo, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, sabbatical leave
Taylor, John E., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, retirement furlough,
(phased), May 12, 1997-December 31, 1998
Division of Kinesiology
Katch, Victor L., Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, Division of Kinesiology, and
Associate Professor of Movement Science, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1998, and sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Law School
Cooper, Edward H., Thomas M. Cooley Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Eisenberg, Rebecca S., Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Herzog, Domald J., Professor of Law and Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Krier, James E., Earl Warren Delano Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1997
Mackinnon, Catharine A., Professor of Law, with tenure, contract leave
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Behar, Ruth, Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with tenure, scholarly activity
leave
Brandon, Mark E., Assistant Professsor of Political Science, duty off campus, September
1-December 31, 1997
Campbell, Myron K., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1997 - May 31, 1998
Carson, John S., Assistant Professor of History, research leave, September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998
Chupp, Timothy E., Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998,
and September 1-December 31, 1998


123




October Meeting, 1997


Cooper, Frederick, Charles Gibson Collegiate Professor of History, with tenure, and
Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, without tenure, duty off campus
Deshpande, Madhav, Professor of Sanskrit, with tenure, and Professor of Linguistics, with
tenure, extended sick leave, September 22-December 31, 1997
Grew, Raymond, Professor of History, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Hancock, David J., Assistant Professor of History, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1997, and scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
Hazlett, Brian A., Professor of Zoology with tenure, duty off campus
Hirschfeld, Lawrence A., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Psychology, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998
Lam, David A., Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1998
Lawler, John M., Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
Septemberl-December 31, 1997
Lieberman, Victor B., Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Mackintosh, Frederick C., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998, and September 1-December 31, 1998
Mrazek, Rudolf, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, teaching leave
Nori, Franco M., Associate Professor of Physics, sabbattical leave
O'Shea, John M., Curator, Museum of Anthropology, and Professor of Anthropology, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1997
Pecoraro, Vincent L., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Pinch, Adela N., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's
Studies, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Ramirez-Christensen, E., Associate Professor of Japanese Literature, with tenure, scholarly
activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1997
Rose, Sonya, Chair, Department of History and Professor of History, with tenure, Professor
of Sociology, with tenure, and Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure, duty off
campus
Smith-Rosenberg, Carroll, Professor of History and Women's Studies, with tenure, scholarly
activity leave
Solon, Gary R., Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public
Policy, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1997
Stafford, Frank P., Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1997 -May 31, 1998
Terada, Rei M., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Verdery, Katherine M., Eric R. Wolf Professor of Anthropology and Professor of Anthropology,
with tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998
Walton, Kendall L., James B. and Grace J. Nelson Professor of Philosophy and Professor of
Phi;osophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1997
Wintroub, A. Michael, Assistant Professor of History, duty off campus
Medical School
Grossman, Herbert J., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
Professor of Pediatrics in Neurology, without tenure, and Professor of Pediatric
Neurology in Psychiatry, without tenure, retirement furlough, October 1, 1997 -September 30, 1998
School of Music
Andonyadis, Nephelie M., Assistant Professor of Theatre and Drama, personal leave
School of Nursing
McDevitt, Susanne E., Lecturer in Nursing, extended sick leave, September 1-October 10, 1997
College of Pharmacy
Carver, Margaret L., Associate Professor of Pharmacy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
August 1, 1997-July 31, 1998


124




October Meeting, 1997


Marietta, Michael A., John Gideon Searle Professor of Medicinal Chemistry and
Pharmacognosy, and Professor of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, with
tenure, College of Pharmacy and Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure,
Medical School, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 1998
Tamer, Helen R., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, extended sick leave, May 14 -July 20, 1997
School of Public Health
Janz, Nancy K., Assistant Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, extended sick
leave, September 1, 1997-January 2, 1998
Schork, Michael A., Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1997 -May 31, 1998
School of Social Work
Astor, Ron A., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, and Assistant
Professor of Education, School of Education, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1997 -May 31, 1998
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Smith, Jonathan, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1997-April 30, 1998
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Adams, Paul A., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Bernstein, Janice G., Associate Professor of Linguistics, sabbatical leave
Bommarito, Ellen M., Lecturer in English, extended sick leave, September 22-December 31, 1997
Gull, Richard A., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Jones, Charles A., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Kren, Robert M., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Lockwood, William J., Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Rosen, Lois M., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave
West, Kenneth B., Professor of History, with tenure, retirement furlough (phased), June 3, 1997 -May 31, 1999
CORRECTION TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Taylor, B. Alan, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997 and sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998 (previously reported
as sabbatical leave, September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998)
CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
School of Education
Harrington, Helen L., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave
canceled (previously reported effective September 1-December 31, 1997)
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Peacor, Donald R., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure sabbatical leave canceled
(previously reported effective January 1-May 31, 1998)


125




October Meeting, 1997


TERMINATIONS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Ngwenyama, Ojelanki K., Assistant Professor of Computer Information Systems, resigned,
July 31, 1997
School of Dentistry
Rowe, Nathaniel H., Jr. William R. Mann Professor of Dentistry, Professor of Dentistry, with
tenure, School of Dentistry, and Professor of Oral Pathology, without tenure, Medical
School, retired, October 15, 1997
School of Information
Dougherty, Richard M., Professor of Information, with tenure, retired, December 31, 1997
Division of Kinesiology
Hass, Lisa M., Lecturer in Kinesiology, term complete, August 31, 1997
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Finholt, Thomas A., Assistant Professor of Psychology, term complete, August 31, 1997
Forsyth, Ilene H., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor of History of Art and Professor History of
Art, with tenure, retired, December 31, 1997
Hackett, Elizabeth M., Lecturer in Women's Studies, term complete, April 30, 1997
Kaufman, Peter B., Professor of Biology, with tenure, retired, December 31, 1997
Meiland, Jack W., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, retired, August 31, 1997
Myers, K. Sara, Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin, resigned, May 31, 1997
Shaheen, Safaa, Lecturer I in Arabic Language, term complete, April 30, 1997
Tompkins, Terence M., Lecturer II in Biology, term complete, August 31, 1997
Medical School
Daoud, Emile G., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, resigned, September 30, 1997
Devaney, Kenneth O., Associate Professor of Pathology, without tenure, resigned,
September 23, 1997
Jaffe, Michele L., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, resigned, July 25, 1997
Rustad, Todd J., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, resigned, June 30, 1997
School of Music
Nadon-Gabrion, Catherine A., Professor of Music (Music Education), with tenure, School of
Music, and Lecturer in Education, School of Education, retired, December 31, 1997
School of Nursing
Esch, Trudy J., Lecturer in Nursing, term complete, May 31, 1997
College of Pharmacy
Townsend, Kevin A., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, term complete,
September 4, 1997
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Filson, Thomas N., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, retired, May 31, 1997
Retirement Memoirs. Secretary Palmer submitted four retirement
memoirs, including one for former provost and executive vice president for
academic affairs, Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr. President Bollinger commented on
Mr. Whitaker's extraordinary record of service to the University. Regent
Power observed that he knew of no other person who had been "as wise,
thoughtful, and experienced and has kept the interests of the institution so
firmly in mind as Gil."


126




October Meeting, 1997


Richard F. de Leon, associate dean for clinical sciences and associate
professor of pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, and director of pharmacy
services, University of Michigan Health Systems, retired from active faculty
status on September 30, 1997.
Professor de Leon received an A.A. degree from the City College of San
Francisco in 1961 and a Pharm.D. degree from the University of California
at San Francisco in 1965. He holds pharmacy licenses in both California and
Michigan. He began his career as an intern pharmacist at the University of
California-San Francisco Department of Pharmaceutical Services in 1961.
By 1978, he had risen through the ranks to positions as director of central
services and assistant dean for pharmaceutical services.
In 1979, Professor de Leon came to the University of Michigan as associate
dean for clinical sciences and associate professor, College of Pharmacy, and
as director of pharmacy services, University of Michigan Hospitals. His
responsibilities included managing the operations of the Department of
Pharmacy Services and overseeing the clinical sciences program, including
the experiential training program at the college. He also assumed responsibility
for directing the college's continuing education program in 1993.
He has served on numerous local and national committees and has
presented a number of invited seminars at national and international
meetings. He has provided consultative services to many outside organizations
and has served as an accreditation reviewer for the American Society of
Health System Pharmacists and for the American Council on Pharmaceutical
Education.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator and administrator for his dedicated service by naming Richard F. de Leon associate professor
emeritus of pharmacy.
Donald F. Huelke, professor of anatomy in the Medical School and
research scientist at the University of Michigan Transportation Research
Institute, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1997.
Professor Huelke received his B.S. (1952) and M.S. (1954) degrees from
the University of Illinois and his Ph.D. (1957) degree in anatomy from the
University of Michigan. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1957
as an instructor in the Department of Anatomy. He was promoted to assistant
professor in 1960, associate professor in 1963, and professor in 1968. In
1983, he was appointed research scientist at the University of Michigan
Transportation Research Institute (UMTRI).
Professor Huelke's discipline is human gross anatomy. Very early in his
career, he became interested in applied biomechanics as it relates to motor
vehicle design and injuries from automobile accidents. His research resulted
in his being appointed to the Ad Hoc Faculty Program Advisory Committee
for the Highway Safety Research Institute in 1965. He served on the institute's
executive committee from 1967-86 and as interim director of the UMTRI
Biosciences Division in 1985 and 1986. During the 1960s, he conducted some
very influential studies on the causes of fatal injuries in automobile accidents
which had a significant impact on seat belt design and legislation. His
research on automobile safety has since expanded to include airbags.


127




October Meeting, 1997


In addition to his laboratory and field research, Professor Huelke taught
gross anatomy to medical and dental students. He also completed a three-part
history of the Department of Anatomy, which has proven to be a very valuable
piece of scholarly research and a major historical resource.
In 1980, Professor Huelke received the Ralph H. Isbrandt Automotive
Safety Engineering Award from the Society of Automotive Engineers. He
has also been honored as a fellow of the SAE and of the American Academy
of Forensic Sciences. He is a past president of the Association for the
Advancement of Automotive Medicine and has served for 20 years on the
Stapp Car Crash Conference Advisory Committee.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his
dedicated service by naming Donald F. Huelke professor emeritus of
anatomy and research scientist emeritus.
Nathaniel H. Rowe, Jr., D.D.S., William R. Mann Professor of
Dentistry and professor of dentistry in the School of Dentistry, and professor
of oral pathology, Department of Pathology, Medical School, will retire from
active faculty status on October 15, 1997.
Born in Hibbing, Minnesota, Dr. Row received his B.S. and D.D.S.
degrees in 1955 and his M.S.D. degree in 1958 from the University of Minnesota.
He joined the University of Michigan faculty as professor of dentistry in 1968
and was appointed associate professor of pathology in the Medical School in
1969. He also served as associate director of the Dental Research Institute in
the School of Dentistry from 1970-89. He was named a fellow of the American
Academy of Oral Pathology in 1959 and diplomate of the American Board of
Oral Pathology in 1964.
Dr. Rowe has distinguished himself nationally and internationally as a
dental scholar, researcher, and teacher. He has served as a consultant to
many governmental and professional organizations and has published more
than 60 journal articles and 10 textbook chapters.
Dr. Rowe served on the University's Senate Assembly from 1975-78 and
from 1978-81 and on the School of Dentistry Executive Committee from
1973-76 and from 1977-80. He was president of the Science Research Club
from 1988-89. He is a member of the American Dental Association, the
American Association for Oral Pathology, International Academy of Pathology,
the International Association for Dental Research, Michigan Society of
Pathologists, the Royal Society of Health (England), and the International
Society for Antiviral Research. He served as a member of several Michigan
and national committees in affiliation with the American Cancer Society, the
Michigan Department of Public Health, and the State of Michigan. Dr. Rowe
is a member of Sigma Xi and Omicron Kappa Upsilon honorary societies. In
recognition of his outstanding intellectual leadership and nationally recognized
achievement in research, teaching, and service, in 1994 he was named the
first William R. Mann Professor of Dentistry at the University of Michigan.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health sciences educator by
naming Nathaniel H. Rowe, Jr., professor emeritus of dentistry, William R.
Mann Professor Emeritus of Dentistry and professor emeritus of oral
pathology.


128




October Meeting, 1997


Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr., provost and executive vice president emeritus
for academic affairs, dean emeritus, and professor of business economics in
the School of Business Administration, retired from active faculty status on
August 31, 1997.
Professor Whitaker received his B.A. degree from Rice University in
1953 and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Wisconsin in
1958 and 1961, respectively. He served on the faculty at Northwestern
University (1960-66), Washington University (1967-76, including service as
associate dean from 1969-76), and Texas Christian University (professor and
dean from 1976-78) before joining the University of Michigan School of
Business Administration as dean and professor of business economics in
1979. He served with distinction as professor and dean until 1990, when he
was appointed provost and vice president for academic affairs.
Professor Whitaker's dedication to the excellence of students and
programs at the business school was the foundation for the growth and
success the school now enjoys. He laid the groundwork for the school's
prominence and readiness to maintain a leadership position into the twentyfirst century.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Gilbert R.
Whitaker, Jr., professor emeritus of business economics.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month, and
there were no actions with respect to degrees.
Degrees. There we no actions with respect to degrees.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Horning,
seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved the
Consent Agenda.
Financial Report for the University of Michigan for the Year Ended
June 30, 1997
The Regents received the University of Michigan Financial Report for
the Year Ended June 30, 1997.
Report of Sale of 8 Acres of Land Located at the Southeast Corner
of Mercury and Hubbard Drives, Dearborn, Michigan
The Regents received information about the sale of eight acres of
University-owned land at the southeast corner of Mercury and Hubbard
Drives in Dearborn, Michigan, at a purchase price of $1,800,000.
Avanti Strategic Land Investors III
The Regents were informed of the commitment of $20.0 million of the
Long Term Portfolio to Avanti Strategic Land Investors III, in accordance
with the Board's policy that allows follow-on investments in new funds
sponsored by a previously approved partnership that has the same investment
strategy and core investment personnel as the prior fund.


129




October Meeting, 1997


Alternative Asset Investments
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $10 million of the Long Term
Portfolio to Pacven Walden Ventures IV, L.P. On a motion by Regent Maynard,
seconded by Regent Power, the Regents approved a commitment of up to $10
million to Halpern Denny Fund II, L.P. Both approvals were conditioned
upon favorable legal review of the documents by the Office of the General
Counsel.
Construction Contracts
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved a change in the dollar threshold for new
construction and major remodeling projects requiring regental approval from
$200,000 to $500,000. The revised policy is as follows:
Construction Project Approvals: It is the Board of Regents
policy that all new construction and major remodeling projects which
exceed $500,000 shall be submitted to the Board of Regents for approval
prior to entering into the project except in emergency situations.
All such projects which fall between $400,000 and $500,000 shall
be submitted to the Board of Regents on a quarterly basis.
Renovation Projects
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) chilled water piping
for the Power Center for the Performing Arts; 2) steam line replacement for
the Athletic Campus; 3) infrastructure improvements for the Buhr Building;
4) increase in the scope of a previously approved project for replacement of
the electrical substation in the School of Education; 5) heating and air conditioning improvements in the School of Nursing Building; 6) renovation of the
student forum lounge areas in the School of Dentistry; and 7) clinic renovations in the School of Dentistry.
Purchasing Contract with Medox Electro-Optics, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Medox Electro-Optics, Inc.
Because Gerard A. Mourou is both a University employee and a partial
owner of Medox Electro-Optics, this purchasing contract falls under the state
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the University of
Michigan and Medox Electro-Optics, Inc.
2.  The terms of the contract to support University of Michigan research
include the purchase of one (1) each, #DR85-A/7000KDP-SC drive and timer
and Pockels Cell assembly and (1) each #800-KDP-2X Pockels Cells assembly,
quotation #Q70714-C dated July 8, 1997 for $16,575 as indicated on UM
purchasing requisition #920056.


130




October Meeting, 1997


3.   Professor Mourou's pecuniary interest arises from his position as partial
owner of Medox Electro Optics, Inc.
Proposed Subcontracts between the University of Michigan and
Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Power, the
Regents unanimously approved two subcontracts funded through Small
Business Innovative Research Program (SBIR) Phase II and Phase I grants
to Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc. Because Robert H. Battel is both
an owner of Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc. and a University of
Michigan employee, these subcontracts fall under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance
with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreements will be Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc.
("Company") and the Regents of the University of Michigan.
2.   The proposed agreements are standard University research contracts. There
are no restrictions on publication or openness of the research. Approval has
been obtained for use of animal subjects in both research projects.
The SBIR Phase I subcontracts are for $15,000 each to cover related costs in
Dr. Bartlett's and Dr. Meyerhoffs laboratories.
3.   Dr. Bartlett's pecuniary interest in the agreement arises from the fact that
he is a co-owner, consultant, and member of the board of directors of the
Company, all without compensation, and owns 33 percent of the Company.
Research    Agreement between        the   University   of Michigan      and
Thromgen, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved a research agreement between the University
of Michigan and Thromgen, Inc. ("Thromgen"), involving an SBIR Phase II
grant to Thromgen. Because Alvin H. Schmaier, M.D., is both a University
employee and an officer and stockholder in Thromgen, and Ahmed A.K.
Hasan is an employee of Thromgen with an unfunded appointment at the
University, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Thromgen, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of
performance is eight months, at a total cost of $136,048, which amount
includes full recovery of indirect costs at the appropriate rate.
3.   Dr. Schmaier receives no payment from Thromgen for his services. His
pecuniary interest arises out of his ownership of 20% of Thromgen's stock.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and PORT
Systems, LLC
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved a research agreement between the University


131




October Meeting, 1997


of Michigan and PORT Systems, LLC ("PORT"). PORT is partially owned
by TSRL, Inc. ("TSRL"). Because certain University of Michigan employees
are also employees of TSRL or PORT or have an interest in or serve in other
capacities in TSRL or PORT, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. Specifically, Gordon Amidon is a University
employee who is also president of TSRL, chair of the boards of directors of
TSRL and PORT, and a stockholder in both TSRL and PORT; John Crison,
Elke Lipka, and Jae Seung Kim are TSRL and PORT employees with unpaid
appointments at the University of Michigan. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the Agreements are the University of Michigan and PORT
Systems, LLC.
2.  The terms of the research contract conform to University policy. The period
of performance is eight months at a total cost of $167,323, which amount
includes full recovery of indirect costs at the appropriate rate.
3.  Gordon Amidon's pecuniary interest arises out of his status as a stockholder
in TSRL and PORT. Neither John Crison, Elke Lipka, nor Jae Seung Kim
has any connection with the project on behalf of the University.
Nichols Arboretum Urban Environmental Education Center
Executive Vice President Matthews announced that a naming gift from
James D. and Helene C. Reader has made it possible for the University to
move and renovate the Burnham House, currently located at 940 Maiden
Lane, to its new location at the Washington Heights entrance of Nichols
Arboretum. The James D. Reader Urban Environmental Education Center
will be housed within the Burnham House at its new location.
Regent Power moved approval of the naming of the James D. Reader, Jr.
Urban Environmental Education Center, to be located in the Burnham
House. Regent Newman seconded the motion.
Regent McGowan observed that the purchase and purpose for the
Burnham House have been long-standing issues, and she was pleased that
the use of the house as an environmental education center has now been
made possible by the generous gift from the Readers. She observed that the
Burnham House is historically significant for the City of Ann Arbor, and
expressed appreciation on the part of the Board to the Readers.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Nichols Arboretum Burnham House Project
Executive Vice President Matthews commented that since the original
approval of the project to create an urban environmental education center at
the entrance to the Arboretum by relocating the existing Burnham House,
construction bids had been solicited and the original project budget will have
to be revised.


132




October Meeting, 1997


Regent Newman moved approval of the revised budget of $537,000, as
outlined in the Regents Communication, and authorization to proceed with
additional interior work as funds are identified. Regent Maynard seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Affirmative Action Lawsuit
President Bollinger announced that a lawsuit has been filed against the
University of Michigan Ann Arbor Campus claiming that its admissions
policy is unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution. He observed that "what is being attacked here is a long-standing policy
of the University of Michigan, which is deeply rooted in the history, traditions,
and identity of the University."
He noted that the University's diversity policy is similar to that of every
major institution of higher education in the country, and that this lawsuit is
part of a nation-wide effort by some groups to try to change those policies.
President Bollinger commented that "we view this with the gravest possible
concern." He noted the recent success of this movement in the Fifth Circuit
with respect to the Hopwood litigation involving the University of Texas, and
the success of the movement within the state of California in the form of a
referendum. He said the resulting situations represent clear proof of what
the University will face if the suit against it is successful.
President Bollinger said that the University has hired the law firm of
Wilmer, Cutler, & Pickering from Washington, D.C. as its counsel, and that
it is in the process of creating an answer to the complaint. He said that he
and Provost Cantor have been talking about how to facilitate the campus
discussion about these issues during the coming months. Announcements will
be forthcoming in the next few weeks about beginning efforts to address
these issues in various formats and platforms. The intent is to approach it
not only as a litigation issue, but also from the perspective of an educational
institution that must come to terms with these issues as an educational issue
as well.
President Bollinger concluded that "this will be a very difficult time for the
University of Michigan" and "it will be a test of our character as an institution
as to how we deal with it." He said "we must be open to discussion about this,"
while at the same time recognizing that historically, the institution has made
sure it has been open to all parts of American society, offering an experience
to students that is "as rich and diverse as we possibly can make it."
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Tom Stroup, alumnus, about the
termination of Michigan men's basketball coach, Steve Fisher.
There followed a five-minute break, at 10:55 a.m., after which the
Regents reconvened.


133




October Meeting, 1997


Executive Session Motion
Regent Power made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended
by 1984 PA 202 and 1996 PA 464, I move that the Board of Regents
meet in closed session on October 17, 1997, for the purpose of
considering material exempt from discussion or disclosure by the
Michigan Freedom of Information Act. Such exempt material
consists of a written opinion from the Board's legal counsel.
Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the public meeting was adjourned, and the
meeting continued in executive session until 11:45 a.m. Regents' expenses for
the month of September 1997 totaled $193.91. The next meeting is scheduled for
November 20-21, 1997.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


134




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1997


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, November 20, 1997
The Regents convened at 1:40 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Homing, Maynard, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Interim Executive Vice President Matthews, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Executive Vice President
Omenn, Provost and Executive Vice President Cantor, Vice President Harrison,
Vice President Hartford, Interim Vice President Neidhardt, Chancellor Renick,
Interim Co-General Counsel Barry, and Secretary Palmer. Regent Deitch and
Chancellor Nelms were absent; Vice Chancellor Dorothy Russell attended in the
stead of Chancellor Nelms. Vice President Kinnear arrived at 2:15 p.m.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and welcomed Robert
Kasdin to the table as executive vice president and chief financial officer.
President Bollinger thanked Chandler Matthews for his service as interim
executive vice president and chief financial officer and presented him a gift
on behalf of the Regents and executive officers.
Mr. Matthews thanked everyone for the gift and said that it had been a
pleasure to return and serve the University. He expressed thanks to his staff
and wished Mr. Kasdin well in his new position.
Resolution in Honor of Chandler W. Matthews
Regent Power observed that Mr. Matthews has been "the most responsive
and reliable person imaginable in the financial side of the University." He noted
that Chandler also served the community through his position as senior warden
of St. Andrews Episcopal Church. Regent Power offered the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
In recognition of his more than twenty-five years of distinguished
service to the University of Michigan, most recently as interim executive
vice president and chief financial officer, the Regents commend and
express deep gratitude to a trusted adviser and friend, Chandler W.
Matthews.
Mr. Matthews, who retired from the University in 1995, graciously
agreed to return in January 1997 to serve as interim executive vice
president and chief financial officer. Drawing on his great love of the
University, understanding of people, and breadth of experience as
associate vice president for finance from 1989-95 and as controller from
1970-89, Mr. Matthews has brought a quiet strength and continuity of
leadership to the University during a time of transition. He has wisely
and skillfully overseen the University's financial affairs, as well as its
business operations, physical plant, human resources, and safety and


135




November Meeting, 1997


security organizations. His strong sense of integrity and commitment to
ethical business practices have set the tone for those units under his
direction. Under his interim leadership, the University's endowment
grew to $2 billion and, for the first time, the University issued commercial paper, an inexpensive and advantageous way for it to borrow
money for the short term.
With heartfelt appreciation for his loyalty, his numerous contributions to the University, and particularly, for his willingness to temporarily postpone his personal plans, the Regents express their gratitude
and offer best wishes to Chandler W. Matthews for a long, healthy, and
fulfilling retirement.
There followed a standing ovation.
General Remarks: President Bollinger
President Bollinger recognized the achievements of a number of faculty
members who had won national early career awards in science, engineering, and
medicine. He also noted that Dean Edward Gramlich had been appointed to the
Federal Reserve Board and former Provost J. Bernard Machen had been named
president of the University of Utah. Finally, he noted that Brian Griese, a
student athlete, had been selected as a National Football Foundation ScholarAthlete.
President Bollinger noted that the reason for Chancellor Nelms absence
was that he had been in an automobile accident on the way to the meeting.
Provost Cantor: Budget Strategies
Provost Cantor observed that the purpose of budgets is to support the
academic commitments of faculty and students. She noted that budgets affect
three domains: the local academic neighborhood; the collaborative academic
neighborhood; and the University as a whole, and discussed how the current
budgeting system, Value Centered Management (VCM), impacts each of these
domains.
She noted that VCM works well at the local level, providing incentives to
reduce costs and enhance revenue.    However, in the collaborative and
University-as-a-whole domains, VCM is more problematic, and it is in these
areas that she is proposing changes in the budgeting system. These changes
include first, changing the name from "Value Centered Management" to simply
our "budget model," to denote the University's system of resource allocation.
Provost Cantor noted that the University has to ensure that activities and
units that are not easily self-supporting are attended to, and it also has to be
attentive to the question of collaborative teaching and research activities. With
VCM, she pointed out, the incentives are at the local level, making it more difficult to accomplish collaborative activities. Likewise, because tuition follows
student enrollment, there are no incentives to teach students in a school other
than the one they are enrolled in. There also needs to be a means of support for
"public goods," such as museums, libraries, auditoriums, recreational sports,


136




November Meeting, 1997


etc., that help to support the University's overall reputation. The support of
public goods can be addressed by using resources at the provost's disposal to
ensure that public goods are supported, and by rewarding local units that
contribute to the public goods of the University as a whole and penalizing units
that are excessively inward looking with respect to the resources that they
control. Lastly, moving to a multi-year budgeting system for the provost's
allocation will allow both the administration and the units to determine what is
and is not self-supporting and to target activities that are priorities for support.
Provost Cantor observed that a current focus of discussion is cost attributions for central service resources and units. In the current model, cost attributions for central services are allocated according to 24 complicated formulas.
Thus the attention is being paid not to the missions of these central units and
how they should be tailored, but rather attention is being paid to whether the
other units are getting their own money's worth from the central units. The
issue of cost attributions for central services should be tackled not by focusing on
individual levels of subsidization, but rather by analyzing the unit as a whole to
see whether the University is getting what it needs from that unit (whether it is
rightly budgeted).  Therefore, Provost Cantor said she will take back the
revenues and cost attributions for these central service units to create the right
budgets for them and to evaluate their missions. She noted that these reviews
will be conducted in conjunction with the Advisory Committee on University
Budgets and described the process that will be used. Following these reviews, it
is expected that significant savings will be realized. These savings will be reallocated to the kinds of collaborative, public goods, non-self-supporting but valued
activities that are critical to the institution. She pointed out that the incentives
rest clearly with the administration to realize savings, as the only alternative, to
raise taxes on the schools and colleges, would be unacceptable.
FY99 State Budget Request - Ann Arbor Campus
Provost Cantor noted that the final aspect to the University's budgeting
process is the critical contribution of state support. She said that the University
is very grateful for the recent increases in state support that have exceeded inflation, as these have been important in limiting tuition increases. She also
expressed appreciation for recent actions on the capital outlay bill, which will
lead to renovations of some of the older central campus buildings.
The Ann Arbor campus is requesting an increase of 4 percent ($12.6
million) in its base appropriations from the state. In addition to this basic
increase, the state is being asked to join in a partnership with the University
to fund two specific initiatives: $1.5 million for expansion of Undergraduate
Learning Communities, and $3 million for a Life Sciences Initiative. The former
will create opportunities for smaller community experiences within the larger
university, and the latter will promote more activity in emerging interdisciplinary areas of life sciences education and research.
In response to a question from Regent Newman, Provost Cantor noted
that the main change proposed for the budget model is to centralize the
budget for central service units. Currently, cost attributions for these units


137




November Meeting, 1997


are distributed among the schools and colleges. In the proposed budget
model, an amount equivalent to the funds that schools would have used to
pay for the cost attributions will come back to the provost for review and
reallocation of these expenditures. This would presumably result in savings
that can be used to support collaborative and public goods activities and to
continue to keep tuition increases to a minimum.
Regent Power observed that any budgeting system that places what
appears to be arbitrary power in the hands of a provost offers risk. Provost
Cantor responded that she believes the proposed budgeting system places less
arbitrary power in the hands of the provost because of the incentives it provides
for holding down costs. It also provides incentives for interdisciplinary collaboration. Regent Power expressed the desire to revisit this topic periodically.
Regent Maynard commented that she was pleased that the administration
is paying particular attention to the effect of the budgeting system on interdisciplinary collaboration. Regent McFee agreed and also commended the
provost and her team for recognizing that no budget system is perfect and
for being willing to make changes in the system as experience dictates.
1998-99 State Budget Request - University of Michigan-Flint
Vice Chancellor Russell reported that UM-Flint is requesting an
increase of $2.5 million. This includes $800,000 as an inflationary increase
for basic operation of the campus and $1.0 million to support three initiatives
designed to enhance the economic revitalization of the Flint area. These
initiatives include Urban Education Initiatives, the Center for Applied
Environmental Research and Outreach, and the development of the former
AutoWorld site. The remainder of the requested appropriations increase
includes $300,000 to support new graduate program development and $400,000
for ongoing information technology needs.
1998-99 State Budget Request - University of Michigan-Dearborn
Chancellor Renick reported that the requested state budget increase for
the Dearborn campus of $3,576,000 includes an inflationary increase of
$1,627,000 to maintain quality educational programming; $1,250,000 for
technology enhancement; and $699,000 for faculty to support program growth.
Report of the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs
(SACUA)
President Bollinger called on Professor Louis G. D'Alecy, chair of
SACUA. Professor D'Alecy noted that there is a spirit of cooperation and
collaboration amongst the faculty, staff, and administration. He reported on
three collaborative faculty/administration efforts: the "Principles of Governance" document outlining the principles of faculty participation in governance;
the "Model Grievance" document, which is a revision of internal University
procedures for hearing faculty grievances; and the Faculty Handbook
Project, whose goal is to revise the current faculty handbook.


138




November Meeting, 1997


Regent McGowan inquired whether the issue of divestment from tobacco
stocks has been under consideration by the administration. President Bollinger
said that this issue is being addressed. Executive Vice President Kasdin
observed that the issue is more than a financial one; it raises the more basic
question of which activities are so inherently abhorrent that the University
should disassociate from them. He stated that in the coming months, he
intends to consult more broadly within the University community to develop
coherent and principled ways to draw these distinctions.
Regent Newman said that she is unclear what is involved in the review
of the Regents' Bylaws. General Counsel Barry responded that the intent of
the current process is to bring the Bylaws up to date and clarify them.
Regent Newman noted that any proposed changes in the Bylaws need to be
subjected to public discussion prior to voting on them. Regent McGowan
agreed, noting that the purpose of the Bylaws review needs to be clarified.
Regent Power reiterated that the purpose of the review is to clean up inconsistencies in the Bylaws, not to add new ones or to change the way the
University operates. He also noted that it might be advisable to consider
making the Bylaws conform to the modern understanding of the purpose and
structure of bylaws. Regent McFee suggested the Bylaws revision as a topic
of discussion for the January meeting.
Regent Taylor noted that it might be useful to first clean up the current
Bylaws and then address the larger issues raised by Regent Power. General
Counsel Barry agreed that this would be a good approach.
Michigan Student Assembly Report
Mr. Michael Nagrant, president of the Michigan Student Assembly
(MSA), began by stating that contrary to media reports, MSA had not
endorsed rushing of the field by students following the upcoming football
game against Ohio State University.
Mr. Nagrant reviewed the goals he had set out at his first meeting with
the Regents. These included a request that tuition increases be limited to
the rate of inflation, consideration of the need for a student Regent, and an
MSA fee increase. He thanked the Board for limiting the tuition increase for
1997-98 and for approving the MSA fee increase. He noted that since he had
assumed the MSA presidency, MSA had returned almost $13,000 to student
groups through internal cost savings, had organized a campus-wide affirmative
action issues forum, had helped to organize the environmental theme semester,
had funded over $60,000 in community service initiatives for the first time,
and was set to begin operating a nonprofit course-pack store.
Mr. Nagrant said that MSA is proposing three new initiatives: extending
hours in the graduate and law libraries; establishing a break in the fall
semester; and establishing an endowed speaker series.
Following Mr. Nagrant's presentation, President Bollinger and the Regents
expressed support for the notion of extending the library hours and for
establishing better access for students to the rich array of speakers that is


139




November Meeting, 1997


already available on campus. Regent Newman observed that one of the
founders of C-SPAN, John Evans, is a major donor and suggested that he be
approached with the idea of establishing a television network that would
broadcast lectures and speeches made on campus.
Student Housing Issues
Regent Newman said that for some time, she had been requesting a
thorough review of the housing situation on campus and all of the issues that
encompasses, such as the size of the freshman class, privatization of
residence halls and services, and possible new residence hall construction.
She noted that it had been announced recently that there would be a lottery
next year for residence hall slots for junior and senior students.  She
observed that it is important for students to live in environments conducive
to academics, and that with the current overcrowded situation in the
residence halls, there is no room to accommodate proposed living-learning
communities.
There followed a discussion about the current utilization of the
residence halls. It was noted that for next year, there is a proposal to have
juniors and senior who want to live in residence halls be assigned to the
"nontraditional" halls, leaving the "traditional" residence halls for first and
second year students.
Regent Taylor observed that it would be helpful to survey students to
determine what percentage would like to live in residence halls if they had
the option. Regent Maynard pointed out that the desire to live in residence
halls is cyclical. There have been times in the past when residence halls were
not filled to capacity because students did not want to live there. Vice President Hartford stated that she would be prepared at the next meeting to
report on the residence hall situation for next year.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Power made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202 and 1996 PA 464, I move that the Board of Regents meet
in closed session on November 20, 1997, in the Regents' Room, for the
purpose of consulting with our attorney regarding trial or settlement
strategy in connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then recessed at 3:30 p.m. and resumed shortly thereafter in
executive session.
Friday, November 21, 1997
The Regents convened at 9:45 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Deitch, Homing, Maynard, McFee,
McGowan, Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Interim Executive


140




November Meeting, 1997


Vice President Matthews, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Provost and
Executive Vice President Cantor, Vice President Harrison, Vice President
Hartford, Vice President Kinnear, Interim Vice President Neidhardt,
Chancellor Renick, Interim Co-General Counsel Barry, and Secretary Palmer.
Chancellor Nelms was absent; Vice Chancellor Dorothy Russell attended in
his stead. Executive Vice President Omenn arrived shortly after the start of
the meeting.
Michigan Stadium Expansion
President Bollinger called on Mr. Tom Goss, director of intercollegiate
athletics, to present a proposal for expansion of the Michigan Stadium. Mr.
Goss noted that due to the fact that nearly 3,000 freshmen students were
unable to obtain season football tickets, and that there is a 98.5 percent
renewal rate for season ticket holders with a long waiting list of potential
season ticket buyers, it is important that the stadium capacity situation be
addressed before the 1998 season. He also pointed out that the University's
schedule of prominent opponents nearly guarantees that each season will
continue to be a sellout, even with the proposed addition of approximately
5,000 seats.
Mr. Goss noted that pending approval by the Regents, plans are to have
the addition completed by the start of the 1998 season. During construction,
commencement will still be able to occur in the stadium in the spring.
Regent McGowan noted that she had expressed concerns about the issue
of holding commencement in the stadium during construction, and about
how the project would be paid for if attendance projections did not
materialize. Executive Vice President Matthews had responded to her concerns
in a letter, and Regent McGowan requested that this response be incorporated
in the minutes of this meeting. The text of that letter can be found in the
Appendix.
Regent Horning stated that although he supports the expansion
proposal, at some point the season ticket situation should be addressed. He
noted that there are corporate entities and individuals who hold large blocks
of season tickets, and this raises the more general question of access to
season tickets. Mr. Goss responded that a task force has been formed to
examine the question of season ticket distribution. His goal is to have this
project completed before season ticket applications for the 1998 season are
mailed in May 1998.
Regent Newman asked whether there are plans to address the press box
situation. Mr. Goss responded that this would be addressed at some point,
but that the timing will be a matter of priorities and financing. Regent
Power requested that in the event that sky boxes ever become a consideration,
the issue should be brought to the Board for discussion.
Regent Horning moved approval of proceeding with the design and
construction of a project to increase the seating capacity of the stadium, as


141




November Meeting, 1997


described in the Regents Communication. Regent Newman seconded the
motion.
President Bollinger called on Mr. Fred Mayer, who presented the
proposed design. Mr. Mayer displayed historical photographs and reviewed
the history of the stadium, noting that seating capacity had been increased
three times since the structure's initial completion in 1927. Using diagrams
of the current stadium configuration, he indicated where the proposed
additional rows of seating, which would increase the capacity by about 5,000
seats, would be located.
Mr. Mayer noted that the firm of Venturi, Scott Brown and Associates,
Inc., had been retained to advise the University on planning and design
issues, and that the firm had been consulted on the design of the proposed
stadium addition. He displayed sketches of the firm's concept for the
addition. The firm's approach is to enliven the stadium and provide an
atmosphere that expresses the vitality and excitement that occurs during
athletic events, which it believes is particularly appropriate for an entertainment venue such as the stadium.
Following the presentation, the Regents expressed enthusiasm for the
design. President Bollinger distributed a memorandum from Venturi, Scott
Brown and Associates describing their design concept. Mr. Goss stated that
if the design is approved, plans are to have a groundbreaking ceremony at
the stadium before the football game the next day. The vote was then taken,
and the motion was approved unanimously.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Palmer submitted minutes of the October 17, 1997,
meeting.
Reports. Interim Executive Vice President Matthews submitted the
following reports: Investment, Plant Extension, Litigation, and Human
Resources and Affirmative Action. He called on Associate Vice President
Norman Herbert to comment about the investment report. Mr. Herbert
updated the Board about how the Long Term Portfolio had fared following
events on October 27, 1997, when the stock market experienced the largest
one-day drop since 1987. He said he believes that although the portfolio will
have decreased by slightly less than 3.0 percent, this performance is positive
compared to the performance of the major comparative indices and unofficial
estimates of the performance of the top 25 institutions. He described how
each aspect of the portfolio contributed to this performance.
Executive Vice President Matthews noted that the names of the project
architects have been added to the Plant Extension report.
Vice President Neidhardt submitted a report of projects established during
October 1997. He also noted that due to the University's reputation with respect
to dealing with research integrity issues, the U.S. Public Health Service Office of


142




November Meeting, 1997


Research Integrity has invited the University to cosponsor a program on managing integrity in research. This will take place February 10 and 11, 1998.
Medical Affairs Report. Executive Vice President Omenn reported
that a patent had recently been issued to the University of Michigan for
pioneering gene transfer technology developed in the 1980s at the Medical
School, and the University plans to develop a non-exclusive licensing strategy
to make patent claims available to all for-profit corporations currently using
the technology. He announced that a Center for Gene Therapy has recently
been established by the UM Health System. This program will enhance the
basic sciences and the technological infrastructure for doing gene therapy
research and exploring potential applications.
Executive Vice President Omenn also announced that efforts are underway to increase the University's activity in the area of intellectual property,
licensing, royalties, etc. He noted that developing the gene transfer technology represents a significant challenge for all involved.
Executive Vice President Omenn listed the following major medical
school research initiatives undertaken within the health system in recent
months: 1) Biomedical Sciences Scholars, which is an effort to recruit
leaders in biomedical research; 2) Center for Gene Therapy, meant to
enhance genetic research; 3) Center for Organogenesis, for research on
embryo development and birth defects; 4) Health Services Research Initiative, to study the outcomes of medical care and all aspects of system performance; 5) Basic Sciences Integration, an effort by the six science departments
in the Medical School to consolidate some aspects of these departments,
aimed at attracting top students.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted the report of
voluntary support for October 1997 and noted that voluntary support is
currently ahead of last year's record. He distributed a handout documenting
the total of $1,415,162,693 received in the Campaign for Michigan. The
beneficiaries of the campaign are students (through scholarships and
programs) and faculty (through more endowed chairs). He noted that more
than 250,000 individuals had contributed to the campaign.
Vice President Kinnear thanked the Regents, presidents, provosts, vice
presidents, and deans who had been involved in the campaign, as well as the
Office of Development staff, for contributing to its success. He also noted
that as a matter of course, the totals should reach $2.0 billion by 2000, but
this would not occur in the context of a campaign.
Abbott Laboratories, Morgan Hill, California
for research in the College of Engineering......................................  $  15,000
Aetna Life & Casualty Company, Hartford, Connecticut
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for research in the College of Engineering and the Transportation
Research  Institute..............................................................20,000


143




November Meeting, 1997


Aluminum Company of America, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research   Institute............................................................... 7,500
American Automobile Manufacturers Association, Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation
Research  Institute............................................................  201,250
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and the Biophysics Research Division............................... 136,909
American Chemical Society, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Engineering; and for chemistry and
physics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... 86,345
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School................................................ 49,111
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School................................................ 12,500
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School....................................... 19,500
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Pharmacy........................ 13,750
American Foundation for Urological Disease, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School................................................11,500
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research  in  the School of Public Health.......................................... 9,337
American Lung Association National Office, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 55,000
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 50,000
American Society for Quality Control, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the National Quality Research Center in the School of
Business Adm inistration........................................................ 50,000
American Society of Clinical Oncology, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School................................................ 17,000
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 25,000
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................... 7,236
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for research  in  the College of Pharmacy........................................... 10,000
Anonymous Donor
for endowment support in the Law  School......................................... 10,000
Anonymous Donor
for support of the University of Michigan........................................  100,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the
Institute  of Gerontology......................................................... 74,996
Ascap Foundation, New York, New York
for the Raymond Hubbell Scholarship in the School of Music.......................... 5,000
BASF Corporation, Budd Lake, New Jersey
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering, and
for employee  matching  gifts...................................................... 15,500
Rodney S. W. Basler, Lincoln, Nebraska
100 shares of Teleport Communication common stock
for the William B. Taylor Endowment in the Medical School........................... 5,131
Joy H. Baxt, Washington, DC
for support in  the School of Nursing............................................... 5,000
Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Albuquerque, New Mexico
for support in  the M edical School.................................................. 8,000
Bayer Corporation, West Haven, Connecticut
for support in  the M edical School.................................................. 9,500
BCBSM Foundation, Detroit
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 30,946
Mrs. M. E. Barr Bigelow, Sidney, British Columbia, Canada
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and
for the Biological Station, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 6,000


144




November Meeting, 1997


Bloomfield Township Fire Department, Bloomfield Hills
for support in  the University Hospitals.............................................5,000
F. A. & A. M. Bower Charitable Trust
for the F. B. Fralick Ophthalmology Fund in the Medical School...................... 10,000
Joel M. Boyden, Sr., Grand Rapids
for the Allan F. Smith Professorship in the Law School..............................10,000
Jenet K. Brown Estate
A U.S. Treasury bond
for the Meyer M., Jenet K. and Donald J. Brown Memorial Fund...................... 87,368
Robert W. Browne, Ada
for the Browne Family Graduate Students Instructors Scholarship in the
School of M usic..............................................................  125,000
Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Leo Burnett Scholars Award Fund in the School of
Business Administration....................................................... 16,614
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Morrisville, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School................................................ 20,000
Carls Foundation, Detroit
for the Institute for Human Adjustment in the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate Studies............................................................. 7,000
Wendy Will Case Cancer Fund, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School................................................. 7,500
Chase Manhattan Bank Foundation, New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................... 7,900
Chevron Petroleum Technology Company, Concord, California
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media
in  the  College  of Engineering.................................................... 20,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 15,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering.................... 22,500
Cohn Family Philanthropic Fund, Bloomfield
for the Avern L. Cohn Fund for the Advancement of Michigan Law in the
Law School, and for support in the School of Social Work............................ 34,000
Cole-Belin Education Foundation, Des Moines, Iowa
for the David W. Belin Phi Beta Kappa Scholarship in the Law School................. 50,000
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the Community Service Learning Fund......................................... 10,000
Paul V. Connell, Terrace Park, Ohio
1,690 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts................................................................... 46,073
Donald Cooper, Devon, Pennsylvania
300 shares of CFM Technologies, Inc., common stock
for the Donald Cooper, MD, and Margaret C. Cooper Donor Pooled Income Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School...................................... 10,238
Core Industries, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................. 10,000
Cosmair, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
Katherine Q. Cox, Flint
for the Lawrence E. Quinn Memorial Scholarship in the School of Music................ 5,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School................................................ 27,125
Cystinosis Foundation, Piedmont, California
for research in the Medical School................................................. 5,535
Ted Dacko, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 5,000
Dayton Hudson Corporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support in the Office of Career Development in the School of Business
Administration, and for the Career Planning and Placement Office.................... 20,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute......................................... 8,500
Anatole S. Dekaban, Coupeville, Washington
for the Dr. Anatole S. and Pamela D. Dekaban Fund in the College
of Engineering...............................................................  500,000


145




November Meeting, 1997


Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School................................................ 45,500
George H. Deuble Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the George H. Deuble Fund in the School of Business
A dm inistration..................................................................5,000
Charles DeVlieg Foundation, Detroit
for the DeVlieg Fellowship and Scholarship Fund in the
College of Engineering......................................................... 21,000
John R. Dexter Living Trust
for the Palmer Christian Memorial Fund in the School of Music...................... 10,000
Double T Corporation, Reston, Virginia
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics...................... 5,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for the Dow Professorship in Public Health in the School of
Public  H ealth................................................................  350,000
dSpace, Northville
for aerospace engineering support in the College of Engineering.......................6,000
Elkes Foundation, Rye, New York
for the Terrence A. and Ruth F. Elkes Merit Scholarship in the
Law School...................................................... 200,000
George L. Farr, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the George L. Farr Merit Scholarship in the School of
Business Adm inistration........................................................ 10,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the College of Engineering and the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies; and for the International Institute in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 67,500
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning........................ 15,000
Foundation for Educational Excellence, Inc., Webster City, Iowa
for support in  the M edical School.................................................. 5,100
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for research in the Medical School................................................ 19,000
Norman & Edna Freehling Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts.................................................................. 5,000
Louis Frey, Jr., Orlando, Florida
170 shares of Premiere Technologies, Inc. common stock
for  support of the  Law   School..................................................... 6,163
Furth Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the Frederick P. Furth, Sr., Fund in the Law School.................. 100,000
Frederick W. Gehring, Ann Arbor
825 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Frederick W. and Lois B. Gehring Professorship in Mathematics,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................55,065
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Summer Projects Fund in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering; and
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 28,000
Matthew B. Gerson, Scottsdale, Arizona
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Adm inistration......................................................... 5,000
Robert M. Ginn, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Class of 1948 Engineering Scholarship in the College
of  E ngineering.................................................................. 5,000
Glaucoma Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.......................22,500
Glaxo Wellcome PLC, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research  in  the M edical School................................................13,242
Goldman Sachs Fund, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 10,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the School of Education............................................ 89,415
James N. Gray Construction Company, Inc., Lexington, Kentucky
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute............................................................... 7,500


146




November Meeting, 1997


William J. Halliday, Jr., Grand Rapids
for the William and Lois Halliday Scholarship in the Law School...................... 10,000
Handleman Company, Troy
for the Paul and Sonia Handleman Poetry Award Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, in memory
of Paul and  Sonia  Handleman....................................................10,000
David Handleman, Bloomfield Hills
for the Paul and Sonia Handleman Poetry Award Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, in memory
of Paul and Sonia Handleman.................................................... 6,600
Joseph Handleman Trust
for the Paul and Sonia Handleman Poetry Award Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, in memory
of Paul and Sonia Handleman..................................................... 6,700
Moe Handleman, Beverly Hills, California
for the Paul and Sonia Handleman Poetry Award Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, in memory
of Paul and  Sonia  Handleman..................................................... 6,700
Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Summer Projects Fund in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering.................... 13,000
J. Ira and Nicki Harris Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School.................... 10,000
Mary Ernestine Hart Trust
for the William D. and Mary Ernestine Hart Merit Scholarship
in  the School of Business Administration.......................................... 51,955
Henry Ford Health System, Dearborn
for the Hospital Administration Corporate Scholarship in the
School of Public  H ealth......................................................... 14,000
Hercules, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering..................... 6,000
Hermelin Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in
the  University  Library.......................................................... 44,113
Jack E. Hill, Venice, Florida
100 shares of GTE Corporation common stock
for support in  the  M edical School.................................................. 5,100
Hoffman-La Roche, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School, and for employee matching gifts................. 100,050
Hollywood Greyhound Track, Hollywood, Florida
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................. 25,000
Marjorie F. Hospidor Estate
for the Mary Dennis Folmer Faculty Award Fund in the College
of Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................... 24,949
Hudson's, Flint
for  W FU M -TV.................................................................. 5,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for research, scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School.................... 185,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Program
in  the  College  of Engineering..................................................... 5,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for scholarships in the College of Engineering...................................... 76,700
International Business Machines Corporation, Armonk, New York
for research  in the College of Engineering......................................... 90,000
Andrew M. Isaacs, Sunnyvale, California
for the Isaacs Kappmeyer Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts................................................................... 10,000
Walter N. Johnson, Lincoln
150 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 15,305
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contributions Fund, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................... 7,100
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School, and for employee matching gifts................. 556,847


147




November Meeting, 1997


Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Institute for Research on Women and Gender................................ 36,000
Judaic Studies Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts..............................................................  124,558
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................... 16,500
Kajima Foundation, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey
for the Kajima Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts........................................................ 5,000
A T Kearney, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute........................................................ 7,500
Stephen Kemp, Whitmore Lake
for support in the College of Engineering........................................... 5,000
Esther A. and Joseph Klingenstein Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School................................................40,000
Robert A. Knoop, Jr., Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of
M ichigan-D earborn.............................................................10,000
Jack Lapides Estate
for the Jack Lapides Professorship in the Medical School, and
for the Jack Lapides Graduate Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate  Studies....................................................  321,161
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 25,045
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 23,500
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 100,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Farmington Hills
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics,
for the Raoul Wallenberg Scholarship in the College of Architecture
and Urban Planning and the Maas Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration; for support in the Schools of Music and
Natural Resources and Environment, and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts; and for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of
Judaica Endowment in the University Library..................................... 11,700
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Schools of Education, Social Work and Natural Resources
and Environment, and in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 387,000
Elizabeth N. Mall, Ann Arbor
70 shares of First Chicago NBD Corporation common stock
for the Willis Dean Nance Athletic Scholarship in the Department of Athletics........... 5,405
Edward Mallinckrodt, Jr., Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for research  in  the Medical School............................................ 60,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 16,662
Masco Corporation, Taylor
for the Monet Exhibition Fund in the Museum of Art............................... 10,000
John P. McTague Charitable Foundation, Clifton Park, New York
for the Carole McTague Student Enrichment Fund in the Medical School.............. 50,000
Edwin E. Meader, Kalamazoo
for the W.K. Kellogg  Eye Center................................................... 5,000
Stephen Meadow, Beverly Hills, California
for the Stephen and Mary Meadow Faculty Award Fund in the College
of Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................... 12,500
Mechanical Dynamics, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 10,000
Mental Illness Research Association, Auburn Hills
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 15,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for the Heart Care M-Fit Restaurant Program Fund and other support in the
M edical  School................................................................. 69,000
Michigan Eye Bank & Transplantation Center, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School........................................... 9,989


148




November Meeting, 1997


Michigan Trucking Association, Lansing
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School....................7,500
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, St. Paul, Minnesota
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering.................... 21,750
Mobil Foundation, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
for employee  m atching  gifts...................................................... 10,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts...............................................................  107,177
John M. Nannes, Bethesda, Maryland
for support of the  Law  School.................................................... 25,000
National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, Inc., New York, New York
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering..................... 6,500
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 104,993
National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, Arlington, Virginia
for the research  in  the Medical School............................................. 50,000
National Glaucoma Research, Rockville, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School.................................................6,250
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 15,000
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 94,821
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School..............................................  125,400
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Westmont, Illinois
for the Center for Excellence Fund in the School of Dentistry........................ 25,000
Oakwood Healthcare System, Dearborn
for the Hospital Administration Corporate Scholarship in the School of Public Health... 14,000
Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation, Raritan, New Jersey
for support in  the M edical School.................................................. 5,000
Richard H. F. Pao, Ann Arbor
546 shares of SBC Communications, Inc., and
409 shares of Bellsouth Corporation common stock
for the Miranda Lee Pao Memorial Fund in the School of Information................. 54,358
Parke-Davis & Company, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 50,000
Brian Parker Memorial Foundation, Niles
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................. 14,400
Robert W. Pasque Trust
for research  in  the M edical School................................................. 5,000
Pepsi-Cola Company, Somers, New York
for the Pepsi-Cola Athletic Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............. 50,000
Steven W. Percy, Akron, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 5,000
Peterson American Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........5,000
R. D. Pettis Trust
for support in  the School of Music................................................ 30,000
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Inc., Washington, DC
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 10,000
Pharmaceutical Research Manufacturers of America, Washington, DC
for research  in  the College of Pharmacy............................................ 6,500
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School................................................. 8,750
Richard W. Pogue, Cleveland, Ohio
2,000 shares of Glaxo Wellcome PLC and 2,000 shares of Keycorp common stock
for the Richard W. Pogue Endowment to Support the Study of Business Law
in  the  Law   School............................................................  214,000
Richard E. Posey, Richmond, Virginia
100 shares of Applied Materials, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,325
PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering, and
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 10,000


149




November Meeting, 1997


Radiological Society of North America R &E, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School................................................21,253
Barbara J. Reader, Ann Arbor
for the Nichols Arboretum Visitor Center in the School of Natural Resources
and  Environm ent...............................................................75,000
James D. Reader, Ann Arbor
3,080 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Nichols Arboretum Visitor Center in the School of Natural Resources
and  Environm ent.............................................................  173,980
Riley S. Rees, Ann Arbor
for the Plastic Surgery Research and Teaching Fund in the Medical School..............5,542
Ralph E. Reins, Perrysburg, Ohio
for the Ralph E. and Victoria L. Reins Fund in the College of Engineering.............. 6,076
Research Electronics International, L.L.C., Cookeville, Tennessee
for research  in  the College of Engineering.......................................... 5,600
Research Fund of American Otological Society, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute.................................... 20,000
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 96,000
Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Pharmacy, Inc., Collegeville, Pennsylvania
for support in  the Medical School.................................................25,000
John O. Robertson, Clayton, Georgia
for the John 0. Robertson Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the Ruth Lobdell Endowed Scholarship........................... 25,120
Marquerite Roll Estate
for the Lyle C. Roll Fund in the Medical School...................................  106,055
Peter J. Rosewig, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics........................ 5,000
Glenn A. Rossman, Fort Wayne, Indiana
100 shares of Mellon Bank common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics, the School of Business Administration
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for the University of
Michigan  Club of Fort Wayne Scholarship.......................................... 5,141
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Information........................................... 29,000
Sara Lee Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
Lance Sauerteig, New Haven, Connecticut
for support of the Law   School.................................................... 10,000
Olive V. Scholz-Brock, Sedona, Arizona
1,495 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Olive V. Scholz-Brock Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for
the ultimate benefit of the School of Natural Resources and Environment............ 100,000
J. E. Seagram Corporation, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 5,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for research  in  the College of Engineering......................................... 15,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
2,587 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Shepherd Family Graduate Student Scholarship in the School of Music
and for the Donald R. Shepherd Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund and the
Donald R. Shepherd Women's Athletic Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.... 189,691
Signature Associates, Southfield
for the Real Estate Fellowship in the School of Business Administration............... 10,000
Margaret Sokol, New York, New York
for the Margaret and Herman Sokol Award Funds in the Horace H.
Rackham   School of Graduate Studies.............................................. 40,000
George E. Sperling, Jr., Santa Monica, California
1,550 shares of BankAmerica Corporation common stock
for support of the Law   School..................................................  113,877
St. Joseph Mercy Hospital, Ann Arbor
for  W U OM /W VGR............................................................... 6,100
Ruth E. Stringer, East Lansing
256 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock
for the John L. Kemink Professorship in the Medical School.......................... 25,360
Jerome P. Subar, Grand Rapids
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the University Library.....8,333


150




November Meeting, 1997


Superion Consultant Charitable Foundation of the Community Foundation
for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the Hospital Administration Corporate Scholarship in the School of Public Health... 10,000
Doris H. Terwilliger Trust
for the Kent M. Terwilliger Dissertation Prize Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.............................................................5,000
Tilles Investment Company, Woodbury, New York
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the University Library.....5,000
Time Warner, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 12,500
UAW-GM Human Resource Center, Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute....... 15,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Margaret Waterman Group, Ann Arbor
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship.............................................. 12,000
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor Scholarship......................... 6,000
Vad Technology, Inc., Detroit
for support in the School of Public Health.......................................... 8,500
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Northfield, Illinois
73,400 shares of Walgreen Company common stock and a cash gift
for gifts pending designation and for support in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, in memory of Roy Rappaport...................................... 2,083,725
Lucy Y. L. Wang, Sun City West, Arizona
for the Anthony D. Wang Scholarship in the College of Engineering, in memory
of Anthony  D. W ang............................................................ 10,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy, for the
Comprehensive Cancer Center; and for the Department of Natural Sciences
at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................................... 92,500
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee  matching  gifts....................................................... 7,300
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for support in the Schools of Dentistry, Medicine and Nursing........................ 10,959
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, Inc., New York, New York
for the Museums of Anthropology and Paleontology in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts................................................. 17,700
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for support in the College of Engineering, the Medical School and the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.................................. 380,573
Wolverine Temporaries, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society................................................ 10,000
Xerox Corporation U.S.A., Rochester, New York
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Summer Projects Fund in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering.................... 13,000
Esther Marion York Trust
for the Dean's Faculty Award Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts........................................................... 14,732
Young & Rubicam Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 10,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Audrey Curtis, Ann Arbor
two Dale Fisher prints entitled, "Oak Shadow" and "Silo" for the Nichols Arboretum
Dee Cramer, Inc., Flint
a mantle surround for the University of Michigan-Flint
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
three manuscripts for the Clements Library
Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto, California
a video server for the Department of Aerospace Engineering
Walter Just, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
a York sousaphone with a stand; for the School of Music
Marquette Electronics, Inc., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
two MAC-PC electrocardiographs for the Department of Biomedical Engineering
Mori Seiki USA, Inc., Rolling Meadows, Illinois
a TV-30 S/N 53 machine and coolant tank for the Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Applied Mechanics


151




November Meeting, 1997


Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Daniel E. Atkins III, Ann Arbor          Daniel A. Mazmanian, Ann Arbor
R. Shackleton Bailey, Ann Arbor          Michael McMaster, Westland
Charles C. Brown, Ann Arbor              Joseph L. Rife, White Bear Lake, Minnesota
William A. Gosling, Ann Arbor            William C. Stevens, Flint
Carolyn Goyette, Clarkston               Annette B. VanDerSchalie, Manchester
Ira Harris, Chicago, Illinois            Vogt's Flowers, Inc., Flint
Donald E. Johnson, Jr., Flint            Kenneth B. West, Flint
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor                 George D. Zuidema, Holland
Anthony J. Mansour
Personnel Actions and Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted personnel actions and personnel reports. She noted the leave of absence
request for Dean Ned Gramlich, due to his appointment to the Federal
Reserve Board.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective December 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Anderson, Robert M., Ed.D., Associate Professor of Medical Education
Brechin, Steven R., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Environmental Sociology, September 1, 1997
Gruppen, Larry D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Medical Education
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Cohen, David W, reappointed Director, International Institute, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, one-year term, September 1, 1998
Cross, John G., reappointed Associate Dean for Budget and Administration, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, three-year term, July 1, 1998
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective November 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Brown, Charles C., Professor of Economics, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department
of Economics, October 24, 1997-July 31, 2000
Fantone, Joseph C. III, Professor of Pathology, with tenure, and the Godfrey D. Stobbe
Professor of Pathology Education, also appointed Associate Dean for Medical
Education, Medical School, January 1, 1998
Khalidi, Nabil, Interim Director of Pharmacy Services, University of Michigan Hospitals,
Clinical Associate Professor II of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, also appointed
Interim Associate Dean for Clinical Sciences, College of Pharmacy
Schultz, Albert B., Vennema Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
with tenure, also appointed Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure
Stollak, Mary A., Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed Chair,
Department of Music and Art, UM-Flint, one-year term, August 1, 1997


152




November Meeting, 1997


LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Gramlich, Edward M., Professor or Public policy, with tenure, School of Public Policy and
Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, public service leave, November 5, 1997-December 31, 1999
Scott, Julius S., III, Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies and Assistant
Professor of History, duty off campus extended, September 1-December 31, 1997
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective November 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Polverini, Peter J., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Professor of
Pathology, without tenure, Medical School, also appointed the Donald A. Kerr
Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, five-year term
Field, Norma M., the Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, four-month term,
January 1, 1998
Jackson, Wes, the Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in Honors, five-month term,
January 1, 1998
Trautmann, Thomas R., Mary Fair Croushore Professor of Humanities, Professor of
Anthropology, with tenure, Professor of History, with tenure, and Director, Institute
for the Humanities, also appointed the Marshall Sahlins Professor of History and
Anthropology, five-year term, July 1, 1997
Wilkins, Roger, the Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in Honors, five-month term,
January 1, 1998
Worster, Donald E., the Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in Honors, five-month term,
January 1, 1998
Alexander, Jeffrey A., from Acting Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Public
Health, to Acting Senior Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Public Health,
seven-month term
Becker, Mark P., from Assistant Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Public Health, to
Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Public Health, ten month term
Gray, Robert H., from Associate Dean for Research and Facilities, School of Public Health, to
Senior Associate Dean for Research and Facilities, School of Public Health,
November 1, 1997-June 30, 1999
Schork, M. Anthony, from Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Public Health, to
Senior Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Public Health
Unendowed School/College Professorship. The Regents approved
the establishment of an additional school/college professorship for the School
of Public Health, effective December 1, 1997.
Jerome B. and Eilene M. York Professorship in Business
Administration. The Regents approved the establishment of the Jerome
B. and Eilene M. York Professorship in Business Administration, effective
December 1, 1997.
Lamberto Cesari Collegiate Professorship in Mathematics. The
Regents approved the establishment of the Lamberto Cesari Collegiate
Professorship in Mathematics, effective September 1, 1998.
Committee Appointments. The following committee appointments
were submitted:


153




November Meeting, 1997


School of Public Policy Executive Committee
Hall, Richard L., November 1, 1997-April 30, 1998, vice John R. Chamberlin, unable to serve
College of Architecture and Urban Planning Executive Committee
Nystuen, John D., January 1-June 30, 1998, vice Mitchell J. Rycus, duty off campus
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Somerman, Martha J., November 1, 1997-June 30, 1999, vice Pamela A. Raymond, unable to
serve
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Hanlon, Philip J., November 21, 1997-June 30, 2000, vice Dale E. Briggs, term expired
Rattner, Richard D., November 21, 1997-June 30, 2000, vice Frederick C. Matthaei, term expired
Root, Lawrence, November 21, 1997-June 30, 1999, vice Walter J. Weber, term expired
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Curin, Matthew S., student representative, retroactive appointment, July 1, 1997-June 30, 2000,
vice John F. Cramer, term expired
Clements Library Associates Board of Governors
Appointments effective October 1, 1997-September 30, 1998
William H. Dance                  Bradley L. Thompson II
William L. Hurley                 Elizabeth van den Bosch
Charles Lowenhaupt                Margaret W. Winkelman
Reappointments effective October 1, 1997-September 30, 1998:
C. E. Fraser Clark, Jr.           Philip P. Mason
Duane N. Diedrich                 Richard A. Pohrt
William C. Finkenstaedt, Jr.      Jacob M. Price
Stephen Hamp                      Joanna Schoff
Harlan H. Hatcher                 Anne M. Schoonhoven
Walter Hayes                      Martha R. Seger
Peter N. Heydon                   Harold T. Shapiro
Ruth B. Hoyt                      Cleveland Thurber, Jr.
Sally Kennedy                     David Upton
Thomas C. Kingsley                John D. Wheeler
James M. Klancnik
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Dungan, Kelli A., M.A., Lecturer in Accounting, October 13, 1997
College of Engineering
Sirviente, Ana I., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering
Division of Kinesiology
Docherty, Carrie L., M.Ed., Lecturer in Kinesiology, September 29, 1997
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Duan, Zhong-Hui, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Manuca, Radu, Diploma, Lecturer in Physics
McKinsey, Pamela S., Ph.D., Lecturer in Russian History


154




November Meeting, 1997


Medical School
Arend, Lois J., M.D., Lecturer in Pathology
Dorantes, Deanna M., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, September 23, 1997
Garrity, James, M.P.H., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, September 23, 1997
Heaney, Deborah S., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, September 8, 1997
Homan, Dominic F., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, November 1, 1997
Ohye, Richard G., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1998
Rowan, James M., Ph.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, October 1, 1997
School of Music
Tupac, Kerianne M., M.P.A., Lecturer in Theatre and Drama
School of Nursing
Davis, Alice E., Ph.D., Lecturer in Nursing
Jones, Beverly, M.B.A., Lecturer in Nursing, June 1, 1997
College of Pharmacy
Cronin, Simon M., Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, October 13, 1997
School of Public Health
Clemans, Daniel L., Ph.D., Lecturer in Epidemiology
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Christensen, Mary C., Ph.D., Lecturer I in French, January 1, 1998 (previously reported as
effective September 1, 1997)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Roy, Tirthankar, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Marketing
School of Dentistry
Munoz-Drummond, Martha L., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Adjunct Assistant
Professor of Dentistry, October 14, 1997
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Gonzalez, John M., from Instructor in American Culture and Instructor in English to
Assistant Professor of American Culture and Assistant Professor of English
Yates, J. Frank, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, also appointed Lecturer in Business Administration, School of Business
Administration
Medical School
Arts, H. Alexander, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor II of
Otorhinolaryngology, November 1, 1997
Baldwin, James L., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine,
June 1, 1997
Bloch, Craig A., from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to
Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, June 1, 1997
McGinn, Cornelius J., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology
McMorris, Marc S., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine,
June 1, 1997


155




November Meeting, 1997


Sanders, Georgiana M., from Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine to Clinical Assistant
Professor II of Internal Medicine
Singer, Nora G., from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Internal Medicine, October 1, 1997
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Gabel, Susan L., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Education
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENT
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Engineering
Keller, Robert B., Associate Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, September 1, 1997 -April 30, 1998
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1-December 31, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Dutton, Jane E., William Russell Kelly Professor of Business Administration, Jack D.
Sparks-Whirlpool Corporate Research Professor of Business Administration and
Professor of Organizational Behavior, with tenure, School of Business Administration,
and Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998
Masten, Scott E., Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998
Oswald, Lynda J., Associate Professor of Business Law, with tenure, extended sick leave,
October 17, 1997-February 28, 1998
Ramaswamy, Venkatram, Associate Professor of Marketing, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998
Skinner, Douglas J., Professor of Accounting, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1998
Weiss, Janet A., Mary C. Bromage Collegiate Professor of Business Administration, Professor
of Organizational Behavior and Public Policy, with tenure, School of Business
Administration, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998
School of Dentistry
Machen, J. Bernard, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, administrative leave,
September 1, 1997- August 31, 1998
College of Engineering
Eisley, Joe G., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, personal leave
School of Information
Hessler, David W., Professor of Information, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bonilla-Silva, Eduardo, Assistant Professor of Sociology and Afroamerican and African
Studies, duty off campus
Brown, Catherine, Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, with tenure,
and Associate Professor of Comparative Literature, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Burnham, Robyn J., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, Associate Professor of
Geological Sciences, with tenure, and Associate Curator, Museum of Paleontology,
sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 1998
Cherry, John F., Professor of Classical Archaeology, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1 -May 31, 1998


156




November Meeting, 1997


Graham-Bermann, Sandra A., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Knysh, Alexander, Professor of Islamic Studies, with tenure, teaching leave, September 1, 1997 -May 31, 1998
Kuczkowski, Robert L., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave
McDougal, Stuart Y., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and
Professor of Comparative Literature, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1 -May 31, 1998
Merlin, Roberto D., Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Paris, Scott G., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts and Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998
Riles, John K., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1998
Robinson, Terry E., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Smereka, Peter S., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, research leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998
Smock, Pamela J., Assistant Professor of Sociology, duty off campus
Medical School
Dipietro, Michael A., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1 -December 31, 1997
Hitchcock, Peter F., Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, without tenure, sabbatical leave, August 15, 1997 -July 14, 1998
Jokelainen, Pentti T., Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure,
retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 1998
Nichols, Ruthann, Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
July 1-December 31, 1997
School of Public Health
Drewnowski, Adam, Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, with tenure, School
of Public Health, Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Psychology in the Department of Psychology,
without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1997, and
September 1-December 31, 1998
Franzblau, Alfred, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, and Associate
Professor of Occupational Medicine, with tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical
leave, September 1-May 31, 1998
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
James, David A., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Lin, Paul K. H., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Moran, Gerald F., Professor of History, with tenure, extended sick leave, July 28, 1997 -January 4, 1998
Sorscher, Randee, Lecturer in Linguistics, extended sick leave, November 9-December 31, 1997
Stern, Jeffrey J., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -April 30, 1998
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
D'Souza, Harry J., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1997 -May 31, 1998
Kugler, Lawrence D., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1998
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences and Letters
Parsons, Marilee B., Associate Professor of Biology and Biochemistry, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1997 (previously reported as effective September 1, 1997 -April 30, 1998


157




November Meeting, 1997


TERMINATIONS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1996, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Wang, David C., Lecturer in Architecture and Urban Planning, term complete
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Arkun, Aram, Lecturer II in History, term complete
Barreto, Steven J., Lecturer I in Psychology, term complete, June 30, 1996
Cohen, Hilary U., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, resigned, May 31, 1997
Epstein, Marcy J., Lecturer I in English, term complete
Hertz, Dalia, Lecturer II in Philosophy, Residential College, term complete
Johnson, Brett R., Lecturer II in Japanese, term complete
Kamp, Marianne R., Lecturer II in Uzbek, term complete
Kerrigan, William T., Lecturer II in History, resigned, April 30, 1997
Lamb, Richard V., Lecturer I in Biology, term complete
Leung, Yiu C., Lecturer I in Chemistry, term complete
Manis, Melvin, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retired, December 31, 1997
Rappaport, Roy R., the Mary Ann Charles R. Walgreen Jr. Professor for the Study of Human
Understanding and Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, deceased, October 9, 1997
Reynolds, David W., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, term complete
Richards, Andrew F., Lecturer I in Biology, term complete
Shefferly, Nancy, Lecturer I in Biology, term complete
Winsten, Beth T., Lecturer II in Film and Video, term complete
Medical School
DeAngelis, Elisa M., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, resigned, July 31, 1997
Ehrlich, Lisa, Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, resigned, October 31, 1997
Lanter, Patricia L., Lecturer in Surgery, resigned, September 30, 1997
Pearce, Bridget K., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete, December 31, 1997
Schmouder, Robert L., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, resigned, October 17, 1997
Setty, Grandhim N, Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, resigned, December 14, 1997
Soslowsky, Louis J., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, and
Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics and Biomedical
Engineering, College of Engineering, resigned, October 31, 1997
School of Social Work
Mutschler, Elizabeth, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, retired,
December 31, 1997
UM-Flint School of Management
Fortner, Richard W., Professor of Management, with tenure, retired, December 31, 1997
Retirement Memoirs. Provost Cantor submitted one retirement memoir.
Jack W. Meiland, professor of philosophy in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1997,
following 35 years of service.
Professor Meiland received his B.A. (1956), M.A. (1957), and Ph.D
(1962) degrees from the University of Chicago. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty in 1962 as an instructor of philosophy. He was promoted to
assistant professor in 1964, associate professor in 1968, and professor in
1974.   Professor Meiland also served as director of the LS&A           Honors
Program   from  1979-83, as LS&A's associate dean for long-range planning
and curriculum from 1983-90, and as associate dean for undergraduate
education from 1990-92.


158




November Meeting, 1997


Professor Meiland's philosophical interests have been unusually wideranging, including metaphysics, epistemology, philosophy of mind, philosophy
of logic, philosophy of the social sciences and of history, phenomenology,
hermeneutics, contemporary continental philosophy, and American philosophy
and pragmatism. He has published three influential books in these areas:
Scepticism and Historical Knowledge (1965), The Nature of Intention (1970),
and Talking About Particulars (1970). He has also published thirty articles,
and is co-editor, with Michael Krauss, of Relativism: Cognitive and Moral
(1982).
In recognition of his outstanding contributions to undergraduate education,
Professor Meiland was appointed Arthur F. Thurnau Professor in 1988, and
twice received the LS&A Excellence in Education Award. A superb classroom
teacher, he is known for his caring approach to students; he teaches without
pretense, conveying to students that he is a partner in learning. He taught
classes in the Residential College and in the Inteflex Program, and had a
special talent for making philosophy come alive for students whose chief
interests lie elsewhere. In the last few years, Professor Meiland reintroduced
American philosophy into the curriculum, and developed two new courses:
"Great Books in Philosophy," and "Science, Culture, and Values." For many
years, Professor Meiland taught a University Division course of his own
design for first-year students, "Methods of Thinking."  His book, College
Thinking (1981), is one of the few college guides that discusses how to
benefit intellectually from college.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Jack W. Meiland professor emeritus of philosophy.
Memorial.    Provost Cantor noted the death of Professor Roy
Rappaport. She observed that Professor Rappaport was a world-renowned
anthropologist who had also been an extraordinary citizen of the University.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound
sadness the death on October 9, 1997, of Roy A. ("Skip") Rappaport, the
Leslie A. White Professor of Anthropology. Professor Rappaport died at
home at the age of 71 after a period of prolonged illness, under the loving
care of his wife, Ann Hart Rappaport, and his daughters, Amelia and Gina.
Honored this year with the University's Distinguished Faculty Achievement
Award, Professor Rappaport was recognized internationally as a major figure
in anthropology. Skip Rappaport was broadly trained at Columbia, receiving
his Ph.D. in 1966. (Anthropology was his second career; his first had been as
an innkeeper.) His main contributions have been in the areas of ecological
anthropology, the anthropology of religion, the anthropology of the Pacific,
specifically Papua-New Guinea, and, most recently, applied or "engaged"
anthropology.
Rappaport has written three books, and a fourth, Holiness and Humanity,
will be published posthumously. His Pigs for the Ancestors: Ritual in the
Ecology of a New Guinea People (1967) is the most important and widelycited book ever published in the field of ecological anthropology. It is considered
a major work of theory, yet it is also empirically grounded in his meticulous
collection of quantitative and qualitative data on such "material" matters as


159




November Meeting, 1997


diet and energy expenditure, as well as such mental-cognitive-ideational
domains as myth and folk taxonomies. The analysis of ritual that emerged
from this field research among the Tsembaga Maring of Papua-New Guinea
was developed and elaborated in several essays on ritual and religion, many
of them collected in his Ecology, Meaning, and Religion (1979).
Professor Rappaport was a man of huge erudition, relentlessly intellectual,
concerned with knowledge, theory, facts, ideas, and also social policy. His
recent work links with what is usually called "applied" or "practical" anthropology, but which Rappaport preferred to call "engaged anthropology." As president of the American Anthropological Association, he directed anthropology
toward policy issues and engagement with social problems. He also contributed
directly to policy through his consulting work on the social impact of outer
continental oil drilling and nuclear waste disposal.
For his former students, Skip Rappaport was generous, supportive, and
encouraging, serving as an ideal scholarly mentor. His teaching activity and
initiatives spanned the University curriculum from Anthropology 101 to upperlevel theory courses and two theme semesters. Generations of graduate and
undergraduate students at Michigan have learned about the anthropology of
religion from Professor Rappaport. His recently completed book manuscript,
Holiness and Humanity, a contribution to anthropological theory and to
religious studies, evolved as he has taught, developed, and revised this course
over the years.
Professor Rappaport served the University as two-term chair of the
anthropology department, and, much more recently, as head of the Program
on Studies in Religion. He has been a member of the LSA executive committee
and the University Senate Assembly. Nationally he served four years as
president-elect and then president of the American Anthropological Association.
Professor Rappaport served on committees, panels, and boards too numerous
to name. In recognition of his teaching, research, and service, Skip was
named to a Walgreen Chair and elected to the American Academy of Arts
and Sciences. As we mourn the loss of this great scholar and public servant,
our condolences go to his wife, Ann, and his daughters, Amelia and Gina.
Honorary Degrees. President Bollinger submitted the names of three
individuals as recipients of honorary degrees at the December 1997
commencement: Gwendolyn Calvert Baker, former president and CEO, U.S.
Committee for UNICEF (Doctor of Laws); Ken Burns, Filmmaker and historian (Doctor of Laws); and Richard E. Smalley, Nobel-Prize-winning chemist
(Doctor of Science).
Regent McGowan stated that she was delighted to learn of the recommendation regarding Ken Burns, noting that it is significant that the University is recognizing through its honorary degree process the distinguished
career of a person at a younger age than has been customary in the past.
Degrees. Provost Cantor submitted final degree lists for May 1997 and
August 1997 commencements, December 1997 Doctoral Degree Lists, and
changes to previously approved degree lists.


160




November Meeting, 1997


Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Newman,
seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the
Consent Agenda.
Six Month Report on University Audits
Mr. Carl Smith, director of University audits, submitted the regular
six months report on Office of University Audits activities for the period
April 1, 1997, through September 30, 1997. He noted that issues associated
with the Year 2000 are being attended to.
University of Michigan 1997 Financial Report Supplemental Schedules
for the Year Ended June 30, 1997
Executive Vice President Matthews submitted the University of Michigan 1997 Financial Report Supplemental Schedules for the Year Ended
June 30, 1997.
Alternative Asset Investment
Executive Vice President Matthews described this proposed alternative
asset investment opportunity, noting that it would involve a currency risk, with
a conscious decision not to hedge. On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded
by Regent Power, the Regents unanimously approved commitment of up to
~10 million of the Long Term Portfolio to Candover 1997 Fund, pending
favorable legal review of the documents by the general counsel's office.
Douglas Emmett Realty Fund 1997
Executive Vice President Matthews informed the Regents that a
follow-on investment of $15.0 million had been made in Douglas Emmett
Realty Fund 1997.
Central Power Plant Boiler #6 Replacement
Regent McFee moved approval of proceeding with a project to replace boiler
#6 in the Central Power Plant, as described in the Regents Communication.
Regent Newman seconded the motion.
Regent Newman inquired whether the University had ever investigated
either replacing the power plant or adding an additional power plant to
increase capacity. Executive Vice President Matthews responded that this is
always an issue as facilities are expanded on the Medical Campus and North
Campus. Regent Newman observed that there is competition in the power
plant industry and raised the notion of having outside construction and
management of the power plant for negotiated fees, rather than having the
University operating the plant. Executive Vice President Matthews said that
his staff would review this matter.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.


161




November Meeting, 1997


UM Hospitals Radiology Angiographic Equipment Replacement and
Renovations
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved submission of an application for a certificate
of need for the purchase of equipment and renovation of imaging rooms for
the Radiology Angiographic Equipment and Renovations Project.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Field House Addition
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the UM-Dearborn Field House Addition Project,
including the site and architect, as described in the Regents Communication.
Renovation Projects
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) fourth floor
renovation and improvements to the C.C. Little Building; 2) an addition to
the North Campus Plant Service Building; and 3) renovation of the Women's
Hospital Birth Center within University of Michigan Hospitals.
Purchasing Contract with AccuPhotonics, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved a purchasing contract with AccuPhotonics,
Inc. Because Mohammed N. Islam is both partial owner of AccuPhotonics
and a University of Michigan employee, this contract falls under the state of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the University of
Michigan and AccuPhotonics, Inc.
2.  Terms of the contract to support University of Michigan research include
the purchase of one (1) each, used laser air table, plus shipping costs, for a
total of $3,394.
3.  Mohammed N. Islam's pecuniary interest arises from his position as partial
owner of Accutonics, Inc.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan
and IntraLase Corporation
Vice President Neidhardt pointed out that this action request concerns
IntraLase Corporation, not IntraLase, Inc., as stated in the Regents
Communication.
Regent Power moved approval of a license agreement between the
University of Michigan and IntraLase Corporation. Because Ron Kurtz and
Tibor Juhasz are both University employees and holders of equity interest in
IntraLase, this license agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict
of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance
with statutory requirements:


162




November Meeting, 1997


1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and IntraLase
Corporation ("IntraLase").
2.   The terms of the contract are that the contracts to be completed between
the University and IntraLase include the license to be executed as well as
documents covering stock transfers and related matters. A sponsored
research contract between the University and IntraLase will be the subject
of a separate Regental Action Request.
The license will provide IntraLase with exclusive rights to the technology
for the field of laser medical instruments. The University will retain ownership of the technology, internal research use rights, the right to convey the
standard governmental license, and commercialization rights in fields
outside of the field granted exclusively to IntraLase.
The University will receive a royalty of 1.5% to 2.5% (depending upon the
patentability of the incorporated technology) of all net sales of products of
IntraLase and its sublicensees. The University will also receive modest
minimum annual royalties beginning in 1999, starting at $5,000 per year
and increasing to $15,000 per year.
The license will require that IntraLase secure at least $1,000,000 in outside
funding for the company's development activities by February 28, 1999.
Once that funding has been obtained, the University will receive equity in
the company under a separate agreement. The equity position will be a
minority position (giving the University 25% of the pool of company stock
which remains after subtracting all shares issued to new cash investors and
issued under corporate management plans to officers from the total of all
shares of company stock).
IntraLase will be obligated to use reasonable efforts to develop products
based upon the technology, and to give primary consideration to the maintenance of business offices in the state of Michigan.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, will be obligated under the license and related agreements.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Kurtz and Juhasz arise from their equity
ownership interest in IntraLase, Inc. In accordance with the University
policy on intellectual property, they will waive any personal participation in
the sharing of revenues received by the University from IntraLase. (The
other inventors of the technology will share in such revenues in accordance
with University policy, on a pro rata basis under a sharing agreement
ratified by all inventors.)
Agreement between the University of Michigan and IntraLase
Corporation
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement between the University of Michigan
and IntraLase Corporation ("IntraLase") under which IntraLase will fund
research at the University to evaluate and improve technology owned and
licensed by the University. Because two individuals who will be working on
the research project, Ron M. Kurtz and Tibor Juhasz, are both University
employees and directors and shareholders of IntraLase, this agreement falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:


163




November Meeting, 1997


1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and IntraLase
Corporation.
2.  The terms of the proposed agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy. Both Dr. Kurtz and Dr. Juhasz will perform work on behalf of
the University under this agreement. Neither of them will receive any
compensation from IntraLase and will not play any role on behalf of IntraLase
relative to this project. The amount of the subcontract to the University if
$10,000. Equipment valued at approximately two hundred thousand dollars
($200,000) will also be provided to the University by IntraLase under this
agreement. The period of performance is three years.
3.  The pecuniary interests of Drs. Kurtz and Juhasz arise from their equity
ownership interest in IntraLase, Inc. Neither Dr. Kurtz nor Dr. Juhasz will
receive any compensation from nor devote any effort on behalf of IntraLase
in this project. Further, neither has played any role in the negotiation of
this agreement with the University.
Regent Power observed that the University typically focuses first on
royalties in this type of arrangement, and secondly on equity. He suggested
that this policy be reviewed by the offices of the executive vice president and
chief financial officer, vice president for research, and executive vice president for medical affairs, in an attempt to bring some clarity to the matter as
a policy issue. He requested that this be brought to the Board for discussion
at some point in the near future.
Vice President Neidhardt acknowledged that this is a concern and stated
that these discussions are ongoing. He said that plans are underway to hold
such a discussion with the Board in midwinter or early spring, 1998. Executive Vice President Omenn noted that he had attended a meeting that
morning on this topic and was looking forward to participating in the discussion
with the Regents.
University of Michigan Health System Definition
Executive Vice President Omenn noted that although the term "University
of Michigan Health System" already is in use, there has been confusion
about its meaning. The purpose of this request is to clarify the definition of
the University of Michigan Health System to include the University of Michigan
Medical School, University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers,
M-Care, and the Michigan Health Corporation. He noted that this term will
be registered as a trademark.
Regent Power moved approval of the definition of the University of
Michigan Health System to include the University of Michigan Medical
School, University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers, M-Care, and
the Michigan Health Corporation. Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and
it was approved unanimously.
University of Michigan Health System Chief Executive Officer
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved the designation of Dr. Gilbert S. Omenn,


164




November Meeting, 1997


executive vice president for medical affairs, as chief executive officer of the
University of Michigan Health System.
Michigan Health Corporation (MHC)/Amendment of Bylaws
Executive Vice President Matthews introduced this request to amend
the bylaws of the Michigan Health Corporation to add a fifth director to the
board, to change the titles of the officers of the corporation, to designate the
officers of the corporation, and to change the sole member representative.
Regent McFee moved amendment of the bylaws of the Michigan Health
Corporation to add the University of Michigan's executive vice president for
medical affairs as a director of the MHC board; to change the title of chair to
chair and chief executive officer and to change the title of president to vice
chair and chief operating officer; to appoint the officers of MHC as follows:
the executive vice president for medical affairs of the University of Michigan
would be chair and chief executive officer of MHC; the executive director of
University of Michigan Hospitals would be vice chair and chief operating
officer of MHC; the executive vice president and chief financial officer of the
University of Michigan would be treasurer of MHC; and the dean of the
University of Michigan Medical School would be secretary of MHC; and to
change the designation of the sole member representative from the executive
vice president and chief financial officer to the executive vice president for
medical affairs. Regent Power seconded the motion.
Regent McFee noted that the board of directors was to be increased
from four to five members. She suggested retaining the designation of the
executive vice president for medical affairs as chair and chief executive
officer, but that instead of designating in the bylaws which of the other directors
is going to hold the vice chair, treasurer, and secretary positions, the offices
be created and the board of directors be empowered to decide who among
them will hold which of these offices. This will provide more flexibility to the
board and the chair. She amended her motion to so state. The vote was
then taken, and the amended motion was approved unanimously.
Membership of M-Care Board of Directors
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved the appointment of Thomas D. Biggs, interim
chief financial officer of the University of Michigan Hospitals, as a member of
the M-Care board of directors, replacing David N. Southwell, who resigned
his position.
Recommendation for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, and on
the recommendation of University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board,
the Regents unanimously approved certain specified appointments to medical
staff membership.


165




November Meeting, 1997


1998 Henry Russel Lecturer
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Taylor, the
Regents unanimously approved the appointment of David E. Kuhl as Henry
Russel Lecturer for 1998.
Establishment of Institute for Advanced Vehicle Systems at
UM-Dearborn
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved establishment of the Institute for Advanced
Vehicle Systems at UM-Dearborn. Regent Newman commended Chancellor
Renick for working with donor Heinz C. Prechter in establishing this institute.
FY99 State Budget Request - Ann Arbor Campus
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the FY99 state budget request for the Ann Arbor
Campus.
1998-99 State Budget Request - Dearborn Campus
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the 1998-99 state budget request for the Dearborn
campus.
1998-99 State Budget Request - Flint Campus
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved the 1998-99 state budget request for the Flint
campus.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. Regents'
expenses for October 1997 totaled $1,741.15. The next meeting is scheduled
for December 18-19, 1997.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


166




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1997
APPENDIX A
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
3014 FLEMING ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
ANN ARBOR 48109-1340
(313) 764-7272
FAX (313) 936-8730
CHANDLER W. MATTHEWS
INTERIM EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT
AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
November 17, 1997
Rebecca McGowan
Regent
University of Michigan
2210 Melrose Avenue
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48104
Dear Regent McGowan:
President Bollinger asked that I respond to your letter of November 12, 1997, concerning the proposed expansion of Michigan Stadium.
The expansion of the Stadium will involve adding rows of seats at the perimeter of the
Stadium. Thus, the work itself will not impact the area devoted to Commencement seating.
However, we e   be working closely with the Office of Major Events in the University s
Development Office to be certain that the project does not intrude on the ceremony.
Although contracts have not yet been issued, they will include provisions that all work
will be stopped and the construction site cleaned prior to Commencement. Furthermore,
equipment and material marshaling areas will be located so as to not affect access to the
Stadium by Commencement participants and guests. These provisions will be reviewed by
Executive Vice President Kasdin.
With respect to your question concerning funding provisions, a number of facts make
us quite conifortable that ticket sales will indeed cover the cost of the expansion:
*    For some time, we have been experiencing a 98% season ticket renewal rate.
*    Based on unfilled requests, we estimate that there is a current unmet need for
1,500 to 2,000 additional non-student season tickets.
*    This year the demand for students tickets exceeded supply by 3,000 season
tickets, making necessary the use of a lottery to allocate partlal season tickets.
*    The recent addition of Penn State to the league has generated a rivalry which we
believe will equal that between the University and Michigan State, Ohio State,
and Notre Dame. These rivalries serve to maintain interest in season tickets over
very long periods of time.
Nevertheless, should all of these factors prove inadequate the Athletic Director has
provided us with a letter pledging the use of Athretic Department Reserves as necessary.
Should you have any questions or require additional information, please let me know.
Sincerely,
C. W. Matthews
CWM:sra
cc:    Members of the Board of Regents
President Bollinger
Executive Officers
P. A. Spradlin


167




DECEMBER MEETING, 1997


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, December 18, 1997
The Regents convened at 1:55 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Deitch, Maynard, McFee, McGowan, Newman,
Power, and Taylor. Also present were Executive Vice President Kasdin, Provost
Cantor, Vice President Harrison, Vice President Hartford, Vice President
Kinnear, Acting Vice President Neidhardt, Chancellors Nelms and Renick,
and Interim Co-General Counsel Barry. Executive Vice President Omenn
and Secretary Palmer were absent. Regent Horning arrived at about 2:50 p.m.
General Remarks: President Bollinger
President Bollinger pointed out some of the accomplishments of faculty
and students since the last Regents' Meeting. He noted that Garry Brewer,
former dean of the School of Natural Resources and Environment, has been
named to a chair at a Swedish university that was established in honor of the
king. Also, among other honors received by the University of Michigan
football program, player Charles Woodson had received the Heisman Trophy
and Coach Lloyd Carr had been named coach of the year. Finally, he pointed
out that Fiona Rose, former president of Michigan Student Assembly, had
received a Rhodes Scholarship, the 24th University of Michigan student and
the first since 1993 to have been so honored.
Regents' Resolution in Honor of Fiona Anne Rose
President Bollinger called on Regent Rebecca McGowan, who called Ms.
Rose to the podium. Regent McGowan observed that Michigan had nominated
four outstanding students for Marshall and Rhodes Scholarships and noted
that the relationship between all four of them had been extremely strong and
supportive throughout the process. She then read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan congratulate and
commend Fiona Anne Rose on her selection as a 1998 Rhodes
Scholar. She exemplifies the high standards which the scholarship
celebrates: intellectual and scholastic attainments, integrity, interest
in and respect for other human beings, leadership, energy to use
talents to the fullest, and a fondness for and success in sports. It is a
great honor for her and for the University of Michigan.
One of thirty-two students selected nationwide to receive the
prestigious Rhodes Scholarship, Ms. Rose has distinguished herself as a
strong and effective leader at the University of Michigan and
nationally. As the 1996-97president of the Michigan Student Assembly,


169




December Meeting, 1997


Ms. Rose ably represented the interests and concerns of students to the
Regents and to the administration and did so with utmost tact,
integrity, and graciousness. She has served on many University committees
and task forces, including the Task Force on Child Care. In February
1996, Ms. Rose spoke eloquently on behalf of students at Michigan and
across the country to President Bill Clinton and Congressional leaders
about the importance of student financial aid.
In addition to student government, Ms. Rose works many hours
each week assisting a deaf student and is a former member of the women's
crew team and of the University Philharmonic Orchestra. This past
summer she participated in an archeological dig in Pompeii. An honors
student, Ms. Rose plans to continue to study classical archeology at
Oxford University and to pursue a career in public service, possibly in
education or public policy.
It is with pride that the Regents congratulate Fiona Anne Rose on
her selection as a 1998 Rhodes Scholar and wish her great success as
she continues her formal education at Oxford.
There followed a round of applause. Ms. Rose thanked the Regents for
the resolution and for the support she had received from the Regents and
administration during and after her tenure in student government.
Report: Research and Scholarly Activities, 1997-Measure by Measure
Vice President Neidhardt distributed a report titled "Research and
Scholarship: Expenditures, Proposals, and Awards, FY1997," noting that the
report provides an assessment of the University's research efforts during the
past fiscal year. He also distributed an outline of his presentation, titled
"Research and Scholarly Activities FY 1997: Measure by Measure."
Vice President Neidhardt noted that the University is currently the
nation's number one research university, measured by the volume of its
annual expenditures in support of research and scholarly activity, which
amounted to $458,478,301 in 1996-97. He noted that whereas two years ago a
drop of 33 percent in federal nondefense R&D expenditures had been predicted
by the year 2002, in 1997 this amount had been reduced to 23 percent. More
recently, the decline in expenditures has been projected to amount to 14
percent by 2002.
Vice President Neidhardt reviewed the reasons for this, noting that
leaders of both political parties in Congress have recently voiced strong
support for research funding by federal agencies. He noted that budgets for
the National Institutes of Health and the National Science Foundation have
risen substantially for FY 1998. These changes can be attributed to intensive
educational efforts on the part of the research community and to the strong
state of the nation's economy.
Vice President Neidhart displayed charts illustrating the percentage of
the University's research expenditures by sponsor group and by university
unit for FY 1997, comparisons of the research portfolio by fields of study
since 1987, and the ten-year trend in research expenditures by federal and


170




December Meeting, 1997


nonfederal sources. He noted that while several of the University of
Michigan's peer institutions have seen significant declines in recent years in
the percentage of total federal research funding they receive, the percentage
received by the University of Michigan has risen to just over two percent of the
national research expenditure over the past decade.
He concluded that University of Michigan faculty have been successfully
competing for their share of the federal investment in research, and that every
effort should be made to nurture new avenues of inquiry by the faculty. This
includes providing seed funds for new explorations, establishment of incubator
units, and cost sharing and infrastructure support of research. The University
should continue its efforts to inform Congress and the public of the continued
need for university-based research. It should also adopt a budget model that will
protect the tradition of cross-disciplinary and cross-unit collaboration in
research. Finally, it should retain the core value that research and educational
objectives are interwoven and essential for the preservation of the University's
uniqueness.
In response to a question from President Bollinger about research
facilities, Vice President Neidhardt noted that the University has excellent
new buildings in the College of Engineering and in the Medical Center, but it
is always difficult to find funding for obtaining the latest technology to keep
faculty at the cutting edge of research. Provost Cantor pointed out the
important role of seed funding provided by the Office of the Vice President
for Research for "incubator units" on campus. But she noted that funding
for the arts and humanities has lagged behind that for the hard sciences.
In response to a question from Regent Power, it was noted that
discussions are underway within the University about the indirect cost
recovery rate.
Enrollment Planning
Provost Cantor observed that enrollment planning involves balancing
accessibility with maintaining a high quality of life and education for
students. That is, the University wants to provide extraordinary quality for
as many students as possible. There are a number of policies and procedures
in place both for housing and enrollment management, but given the large
pool of qualified applicants, this is a very difficult task and is a delicate
balancing act involving the schools and colleges, offices of the provost and
vice president for student affairs, and many other areas of the University.
Housing Occupancy Report
Vice President Hartford distributed documents explaining the housing
situation and options for 1998-99. She noted that a lot of misinformation
had been spread in recent weeks and gave a report describing the actual
situation.
Vice President Hartford noted that first-year students have historically
been guaranteed space in traditional residence halls. However, for the past
four years, University Housing has had a supply/demand problem, due to an
increase of 500 freshman students during this time and a concurrent increase


171




December Meeting, 1997


in the number of upper division students interested in living on campus.
This has led to overcrowding in the traditional residence halls, in which
there are 7600 spaces.
She reported that about 25 percent of all students live in "traditional"
and "nontraditional" residence halls, 4.5 percent live in family housing, 6.5
percent live in fraternities and sororities, 1.6 percent live in cooperatives,
almost 44 percent live in private-sector rentals, and about 18 percent
commute. She clarified that there is space on campus for any students
currently in the University housing system who want to remain in the
system, which includes traditional and nontraditional residence halls.
Vice President Hartford stated that the guiding principles of University
Housing are to guarantee traditional hall space for first year students; to
serve the priorities of the living-learning programs, which include a
sophomore year component; and to assist junior and senior students, who are
more ready for and interested in independent living, either in living in
nontraditional halls or in finding off campus housing.
Current issues are the increased size of the first-year class, a higher
residence hall re-application rate among returning residents, and the need to
reduce overcrowding in the residence halls. However, she reiterated that
space is guaranteed in the system for any student who wants to live there,
and that meal programs are available for any student, whether or not they
live in residence halls.
Vice President Hartford reported that 96 percent of first-year students
live in traditional halls, as well as 36 percent of sophomores, 5 percent of
juniors and seniors, and less than one percent of graduate students. Regent
Taylor suggested that a survey be conducted to determine how many juniors
and seniors would choose to live in traditional halls if that option were
available. That information could be used to establish a vision of what the
ideal situation would be given sufficient resources.
Vice President Hartford noted that including overflow triple spaces and
additional spaces in Baits Hall, the total available traditional housing spaces
equal 7,980 for 1998-99. However, the estimated demand will equal 8,350,
leaving 370 students who would have to be housed in nontraditional halls.
Nontraditional halls have fewer staff and no formal programming, and their
leases do not include a meal plan, although plans can be purchased. She
pointed out that this past year, eight Big Ten schools opened with some
students in temporary housing; the 34 students at the University of
Michigan who had to be housed in lounges at the start of school had been
moved out of the lounges within 11 days.
Regent Taylor noted that he assumes that staff is working as hard as
possible to deal with the current situation; however, the other issue, which is
not being addressed, is the longer-range issue of the vision for housing and
what is and should be offered. Regent Power pointed out that historically,
there have been Regents who did not want to conduct a survey of housing
needs because they felt they represented the Ann Arbor landlord community,
and this precluded there being any long-term policy setting about housing.


172




December Meeting, 1997


He believes the Board is now in a position to set a forward-looking, long-term
policy to deal with the interests of the University in the area of housing.
Regent Deitch pointed out that the Board had been receiving a lot of
complaints about the housing situation, but that these should be viewed in
the context of allocating resources and cost/benefit analysis for all 23,500
undergraduate students. He believes the primary emphasis should be on
exposing the largest possible number of students to the benefits of a
Michigan education. At the current time, he noted, there appears to be a
shortage of rooms, and he believes that a rational solution has been arrived
at. He expressed concern about conducting a broad survey, as it could raise
unrealistic expectations about potential solutions.
Regent Taylor agreed that the current situation is being resolved in a
reasonable manner. However, it only emphasizes the need to look forward to
the future and collect data. Regent Newman agreed that a cohesive housing
policy is needed. Vice President Hartford agreed that there has not been a
broad discussion of what the University should be doing in this area in the
best of all possible worlds.
Regent McFee observed that most of the concerns raised by the current
situation have been answered by today's presentation. She expressed regret
that rumors had escalated to the point that so many unnecessary worries had
been caused.
Regent Maynard suggested that administrators look back and see what
in the system had created the misunderstandings in order to prevent this
unfortunate situation from recurring. Vice President Hartford observed that
sometimes when proposals are raised in order to receive open discussion and
input, people assume that the decision has already been made.
Regent Deitch disagreed that the University does not have a cohesive
housing policy. He believes the housing division is well-run, that decisions
are made based upon historic usage, and that the plant has been suitably
updated. Any review of the assumptions underlying the way the Housing
Division operates should be conducted in the context of all other demands on
the University's resources.
Regents Newman and Taylor reiterated that they are not suggesting
that the Housing Division is not well-run; they are only suggesting that the
issue needs to be reviewed in order that a cohesive plan be developed. Vice
President Hartford emphasized that what should drive the housing policy is
the academic mission of the institution.
Operating Principles of Enrollment Management
Provost Cantor then gave a presentation about enrollment management.
She noted that enrollments have been relatively steady over the past ten
years. She said there is a good deal of coordination among all of the offices
concerned with enrollment, including the schools and colleges, admissions
office, provost's office, office of financial aid, and office of budget and
planning. She noted that enrollment targeting has as much to do with
classroom space as it does with housing. She displayed a chart showing the


173




December Meeting, 1997


enrollment planning timeline and noted that the need for determining
housing needs for upper division students comes much earlier than when the
size of the freshman class is known and before the number of returning
students is known.
For Fall 1997, there was a much higher yield rate than expected for
resident students (residents of the state of Michigan who decide to attend the
University). She pointed out that many of the factors that affect yield rate
are not easy to incorporate into enrollment projection models.
Regent Newman suggested that information sent to prospective
students include a statement that housing is not guaranteed after the
freshman year, as a number of parents had indicated that they were unaware
of this policy.
Provost Cantor noted that although the number of incoming students
was higher than had been projected, the increased numbers of students this
year represent only one-half of one percent of the total enrollment. This is
within the desired enrollment target projection range.  However, she
reiterated that academic initiatives, such as classroom and living/learning
experiences, are also important in determining enrollment targets. To this
end, she noted that the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts is
considering reducing the target for the next freshman class by 100 students
in order to increase the availability of small first-year seminar classes. This
number would be offset by increasing the number of upper-division transfer
students.
Regent Newman pointed out that it would be better to have admissions
policy decisions impact the housing situation than for housing availability to
impact enrollment.  That is, academic decisions, rather than housing
availability, should be the driving factors for decisions on enrollment
decreases. General agreement was expressed on this point.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Power made the following motion:
Pursuant to Sections 8(e) and 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202 and 1996 PA 464, I move that the Board of
Regents meet in closed session on December 18, 1997, in the Regents'
Room, for the purposes of consulting with our attorney regarding trial
or settlement strategy in connection with specific pending litigation
(Section 8e) and of considering material exempt from discussion or
disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act (Section 8h).
Such exempt material consists of a written opinion from the Board's
legal counsel.
Regent Deitch seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent Power added, "In addition, during this session we will consider a
periodic personnel evaluation of an employee who has requested a closed
hearing (Section 8a)."


174




December Meeting, 1997


The meeting continued in executive session beginning at 3:40 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents reconvened in open session at 4:00 p.m., and heard
comments from the following people on the topics indicated: Jonathan
Mezzandri, student, on University Housing policies; Suzanne Selig, UM-Flint
faculty member, on proposed changes related to the School of Health
Professions and Studies at UM-Flint; and Bert J. Long, citizen, on University
Housing policies.
Following Public Comments, the Regents reconvened in executive
session until 5:00 p.m.
Friday, December 19. 1997
The Regents convened at 9:45 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Executive Vice President
Kasdin, Provost Cantor, Vice President Harrison, Vice President Hartford,
Vice President Kinnear, Acting Vice President Neidhardt, Chancellors Nelms
and Renick, and Interim Co-General Counsel Barry. Executive Vice President
Omenn and Secretary Palmer were absent.
Consent Agenda
President Bollinger called the meeting to order.
Minutes. It was noted that the November 1997 minutes would be
submitted at the January 1998 meeting.
Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted Reports on
Investments, Plant Extension, Litigation, and Human Resources and
Affirmative Action.
Vice President Neidhardt submitted a reports on projects established
during November 1997.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted the Report of
William J. Abraham, Jr., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
224 shares of Fort James Corporation common stock
for support in the Law School........................................ $ 10,339
Alcon Laboratories, Inc., Fort Worth, Texas
for research  in the Medical School.................................6,250
Pamela L. Alexa, Saline
for research in the Medical School........ 5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts....................................                7,624
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  37,500
American Society for Quality Control, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the National Quality Research Center, School of Business Administration. 50,000
AMP, Inc., Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
for the Cumulative Trauma Disorders Fund in the Center for
Ergonomics, College of Engineering.....................................  25,000


175




December Meeting, 1997


ARCO Foundation, Inc., Los Angeles, California
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
Arts Midwest, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the University Musical Society......................................  10,000
Atlantic Richfield Company, Los Angeles, California
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
Azalea Foundation, Wyckoff, New Jersey
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Leonard J. Baxt, Washington DC
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  10,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  41,000
Edmund B. Brownell, Flint
for the Edmund B. and Eleanor E. Brownell Neurosurgery Fund and the
Glaucoma Research and Development Fund in the Medical School........... 15,000
Cancer Research Foundation of America, Alexandria, Virginia
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  8,000
Chase Manhattan Bank Foundation, New York, New York
for the OCD Catalyst Project Fund in the School of Business Administration.. 20,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for the Chrysler Minorities and Women Scholarship at the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn...................................................  12,500
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia Pennsylvania
for the Risk Management Program Fund, School of Business Administration.. 10,000
Citicorp Foundation, New York, New York
for the Citibank Academic Excellence Award Fund in the School of
Business Adm inistration..............................................  12,000
Committee on Problems of Drug Dependence, Inc., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the M edical School.......................................  7,400
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Cook Family Foundation Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts........................................ 10,000
Coopers & Lybrand Foundation, New York New York
for the William A. Paton Accounting Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration...............................................  8,000
Alice S. Corey, Altadena, California
for the Chester B. Slawson Memorial Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..................................................  8,000
John Dahlgren, Flint
for the Designated Families Fund in the University Hospitals, in memory of
Hilda and Harley Miles........................................    12,500
Deloitte & Touche Foundation, Hermitage, Tennessee
for employee matching  gifts.............................................  6,508
Delta Dental Fund, Okemos
for continuing education support in the School of Dentistry.................. 5,000
Detroit Association of University of Michigan Women, Detroit
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship.....................................  5,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice at the University
of M ichigan-Dearborn.................................................  15,000
Charles DeVlieg Foundation, Detroit
for the Program in Manufacturing Fund in the College of Engineering....... 10,000
Mary Hunter Dobson, Ann Arbor
for the Mary Hunter Dobson Scholarship and other support in the Center
for the Education of Women for the Martin Luther King Scholarship and
for the Museum of Art, the Clements Library, the Michigan League, the
University Musical Society and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts.........................................................  9,660
Dover Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for the Robert I. Kleinberg English Language Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................  10,000
dSpace, Northville
for aerospace engineering support in the College of Engineering.............. 5,500
Stanley C. Duffendack, Hilton Head Island, South Carolina
1,440 shares of General Electric common stock
for the Stanley C. and Helen C. Duffendack Charitable Remainder
Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the School of Nursing,
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, and the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................  97,470
176




December Meeting, 1997


EDS, Troy
for support in the School of Management at the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn...................................................  12,000
Engle Famy Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sylvia "Duffy" Engle Graduate Student Fellowship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................... 30,000
Equity Group Investment, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the OCD Catalyst Project Fund in the School of Business Administration.. 20,000
Exxon Company, U.S.A., Houston, Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts.........................................................  26,000
Russell H. Fifield Living Trust
for the W.K. Kellogg Eye Center........................................  10,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 12,090
Forest Health Services Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society......................................  53,130
Donald N. Frey, Evanston, Illinois
for the Class of 1947 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering.......... 10,000
Gateway 2000 Foundation, North Sioux City, South Dakota
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for support in the School of Business Administration..................... 100,000
General Mills Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 15,000
Edward Ginsberg Estate
for the Stephen and Sybil Stone Class of '38 Dean's Merit Scholarship
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 10,000
Kathryn J. Graham Estate
for the Glaucoma Research and Development Fund in the Medical School...... 9,404
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for the GTE Foundation Fellowship in the School of Business
Administration.                                                       15,000
Hal Computer Systems, Inc., Campbell, California
for the HPS Architecture Fund in the College of Engineering............... 25,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  75,000
Hayes Wheels International, Inc., Romulus
for research in the College of Engineering................................  16,000
Hewlett-Packard Financial Services Center, Colorado Springs, Colorado
for research in the School of Business Administration...................... 50,000
Jack D. Highfield, Grand Rapids
1,000 shares of Abbott Labs common stock
for the Jack D. and Marjorie E. Highfield Dean's Merit Scholarship in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 61,063
Hosiden and Philips Display Corporation, Kobe-City, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 22,433
James W. Hyde Estate
for the Class of 1904 Scholarship in the Law School....................... 80,000
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Kanagawa, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.......... 7,500
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Summer Projects Fund in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering........... 13,000
Verne G. Istock, Chicago, Illinois
500 shares of Chicago NBD Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Verne G. Istock Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration, for the Mildred W. Istock Scholarship in the School of
Education and for the Martin Luther King Scholarship.................... 37,672
Janssen Pharmaceutical Research Foundation, Titusville, New Jersey
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,500
William R. Jentes, Chicago, Illinois
for the William R. Jentes Merit Scholarship in the Law School............. 164,811
Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in Rabbinic Literature,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 20,000
Janet A. Kemink, Ann Arbor
for the John L. Kemink Professorship in Neurotology in the Medical School.... 5,000


177




December Meeting, 1997


John E. King, Jr., Trust
for the George W. Roby Research Fund in the Medical School.............. 224,994
Steven B. Klinsky, New York, New York
for The Irvlng M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the
University Library.....................................................8,333
Lear Corporation, Southfield
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering,
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute and for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University
of Michigan-Dearborn........                                       22,500
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  8,750
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 10,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for em ployee matching  gifts.............................................  5,700
Donn B. Miller, Beverly Hills, California
153 shares of Neiman-Marcus Group, Inc., common stock
for support of the Law School........................................ 5,063
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for the OCD Catalyst Project Fund in the School of Business Administration.. 20,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for research in the School of Social Work................................ 100,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  13,781
Virginia G. Nash Trust
for the Nichols Arboretum Flowering Tree Fund in the School of
Natural Resources and Environment, in memory of Virginia G. Nash........ 50,000
William R. Nelle Estate
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 14,000
New York Community Trust, New York, NewYork
for History of Art support in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts.............................................................  25,000
Robert Odiorne, Scottsdale, Arizona
for the George S. Odiorne Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  10,000
Parker-Hannifin Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  6,250
Donald H. Parsons, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Office for the Study of Private Equity Finance in the School of
Business Adm inistration..............................................  25,000
R. D. Pettis Trust
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 30,000
Richard W. ogue, Cleveland, Ohio
2,500 shares of various corporate common stocks
for the Richard W. Pogue Endowment to Support the Study of Business
Law  in  the  Law  School...............................................  208,741
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the OCD CataIyst Project Fund in the School of Business
Administration and for research in the Medical School..................... 23,500
Judith Gaffert Richardson, Eugene, Oregon
for the Joyce Gaffert Ad erley and Family Endowment in the
U niversity  Library.....................................................  5,000
Elizabeth G. Robb, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
1,000 shares of Bristol-Myers Squibb and
400 shares of Bellsouth Corporation common stocks
for the Elizabeth G. Robb Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the School of Information and the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................  114,438
Donald H. Runck, Green Valley, Arizona
9,063 shares of various corporate common stocks
for the Donald H. and Elizabeth F. Runck Charitable Remainder
Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Donald H. and Elizabeth F.
Runck  Student Aid  Fund.............................................  327,516
SangStat Medical Corporation, Menlo Park, California
for the TXP Research and Development Fund in the Medical School.......... 5,000
Rosemary C. Sarri Ann Arbor
102 shares of various corporate common stocks
for the Romilos H. Sarri Scholarship in the College of Engineering............ 6,101
178




December Meeting, 1997


Shirley Davis Schumacher, Ann Arbor
440 shares of Southern Company common stock
for the Mary Wood Davis Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts................................................. 10,051
Mabel E. Sherk Estate
for the Ophthalmology Memorial Fund in the Medical School.............. 300,000
Herbert E. Sloan, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the  University  Musical Society.......................................  7,500
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Center for the Education of Women.................... 100,000
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council, New York, New York
for research in the School of Dentistry................................... 21,112
Jerold S. Solovy, Chicago, Illinois
for the Jerold andKathleen Solovy Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.................................................  10,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education..................................  11,950
Stimsonite Corporation, Niles, Illinois
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.......... 7,500
Robert J. Ulmer, Arcadia, California
14,011 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock
for the Ulmer Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the Ulmer Endowed Fund in the Department of Athletics....... 1,003,976
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 15,000
Mrs. Alexander S. Vida, Bradbury, California
for the Alexander S. Vida, M.D., Memorial Scholarship in the Medical School.. 50,000
DeWitt Wallace-Reader's Digest Fund, New York, New York
for research in the School of Education...................... 40,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research and the Graduate Student Recruitment Fund in the
College of Pharmacy, and for support in the Medical School................. 78,736
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee matching  gifts............................................  14,000
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains New Jersey
for the Warner-Lambert/Parke Davis Fellowships and Professorships
in the Medical School and the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for support in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate  Studies...........................................  741,950
Zeneca Pharmaceuticals, Wilmington, Delaware
for the Information Systems Executive Forum Fund in the School of
Business Adm inistration..............................................  10,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
George T. Baumgartner, Jenison
three pieces of Roman period glass for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology
Vasa Mihich, Los Angeles, California
art work for the School of Art and Design
North American Manufacturing Company, Cleveland, Ohio
various combustion equipment and related printed materials for the Department of
Aerospace Engineering
Tektronix, Inc., Novi
a Tektronix Digital Storage Oscilloscope for the Solar Car Project
Betty J. Yeghissian, BloomfieldTownship
seventy books, three journals, and one manuscript on Armenian literature and culture
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
R. Shackleton Bailey, Ann Arbor        Gerald E. Ottenbreit, Jr., Southgate
Gerald L. Brockman, Brighton           Jon M. Route, Frederic, Wisconsin
Butki Carbide & Tool, Detroit          Gary Solon, Ann Arbor
Norma Diamond, Ann Arbor               Patty Tracey, Ann Arbor
Conrad P. Kottak, Ann Arbor            Ann T. VanRosevelt, Ann Arbor
Tim O'Neill, Basco, Wisconsin


179




December Meeting, 1997


Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted personnel actions and
noted that Vice President Kinnear was being recommended for appointment
as the Eugene Applebaum Professor of Entrepreneurial Studies, effective
January 1, 1998. Regent Newman commented that she believed this was a
terrific appointment, and that she "couldn't think of a better match." She
congratulated Vice President Kinnear and noted that Mr. Applebaum is very
excited about his appointment to this chair.
Chancellor Nelms noted the recommendation for the appointment of
Professor Renate McLaughlin as provost of the Flint campus.
NEW APPOINTMENT AND PROMOTION
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on January 1, 1998
Raudenbush, Stephen W., Ed.D., Professor of Education
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Allen, Virginia R., reappointed Vice Chancellor for Student Services and Enrollment
Management, UM-Flint, three-year term, September 1, 1998
Amrine, Frederick R., reappointed Chair, Department of Germanic Languages and
Literatures, two-year term, July 1, 1998
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on December 19, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Albers, James W., Professor of Neurology, without tenure
Camper, Sally A., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure
Mule, James J., Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure
Weisman, Carol S., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without tenure, January 1, 1998
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1-May 31, 1998
Grew, Raymond, Professor of History, with tenure, duty off-campus extended
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Bucksbaum, Philip H., Otto Laporte Professor of Physics, five-year term, September 1, 1998


180




December Meeting, 1997


James, Sherman A., John P. Kirscht Collegiate Professor of Public Health, five-year term
Kinnear, Thomas C., from Vice President for Development, Professor of Marketing, with
tenure, and the D. Maynard Phelps Professor of Business Administration to Vice
President for Development, Professor of Marketing, with tenure, and the Eugene
Applebaum Professor of Entrepreneurial Studies, five year term
Matlock, John H., from Assistant Vice Provost and Director, Academic and Multicultural
Initiatives to Assistant Provost and Director, Academic and Multicultural Initiatives
McLaughlin, Renate, from Interim Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs,
UM-Flint, to Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs, UM-Flint, two and
one-half year term
Smoller, Joel A., Lamberto Cesari Collegiate Professor of Mathematics, five-year term,
September 1, 1998
John P. Kirscht Collegiate Professor of Public Health. The
Regents approved the establishment of the John P. Kirscht Collegiate Professor
of Public Health in the School of Public Health, effective January 1, 1998.
Otto Laporte Collegiate Professorship in         Physics.    The Regents
approved the establishment of the Otto Laporte Collegiate Professorship in Physics
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, effective September 1, 1998.
Dean, School of Education and Human Services. The Regents
approved the creation of the new position of Dean of the School of Education
and Human Services at the University of Michigan-Flint, effective July 1, 1998.
Dean, School of Health Professions and Studies. The Regents
approved the creation of the position of Dean of the School of Health Professions
and Studies at the University of Michigan-Flint, effective July 1, 1998.
Committee appointments. The following committee appointments
were submitted:
Ann Arbor Summer Festival, Inc., Board of Trustees
Effective November 16, 1997-November 15, 2000
Allen-Meares, Paula, vice Elsa Kircher Cole, term expired
Boylan, Paul C., reappointed
Ellison, Julie, vice Ken Fischer, term expired
Kennedy, Richard L., vice Gerald Jernigan, term expired
Kosteva, James A., vice Randy Harris, no longer with the University
Reynolds, Donovan, vice Hazen Schumacher, term expired
Personnel reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Benet-Martinez, Veronica, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, January 1, 1998
Ritter, Claudia M., Diplom, Lecturer II in German, September 1, 1997
Valentino, Nicholas A., A.B., Instructor in Communication, September 1, 1997
Medical School
Bassler, Mary P., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, November 1, 1997
Hall, Karen E., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, October 2, 1997
Kinnard, Margaret, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, October 10, 1997


181




December Meeting, 1997


McDougle, Leon, M.D., Lecturer in Family Medicine, November 17, 1997
Ognenovski, Vladimir M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, January 1, 1998
Sonnad, Seema S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, October 15, 1997
Stevens, Deryth L., M.B.B.Ch., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, October 1, 1997
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the date indicated
Medical School
Koelling, Todd, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, September 1, 1997
(previously reported as Lecturer in Internal Medicine)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Aarsvold, John N., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, also appointed Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 1, 1997
Tortora, Christina, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Linguistics, September 1, 1997
Medical School
Bockenstedt, Paula L., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Assistant
Professor II of Internal Medicine, November 1, 1997
Carey, James E. Jr., Assistant Professor of Radiation Physics, Internal Medicine, and
Assistant Professor of Radiation Physics, Radiology, Medical School, also appointed
Lecturer in Environmental and Industrial Health, School of Public Health,
September 1, 1997
Cornblath, Wayne T., from Lecturer in Opthalmology and Lecturer in Neurology to Clinical
Assistant Professor II of Opthalmology and Clinical Assistant Professor II of
Neurology, July 11, 1997
Johnston, Carolyn M., from Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Clinical
Assistant Professor II of Obstetrics and Gynecology, November 1, 1997
Kohrman, David C., Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, also appointed Assistant
Professor of Human Genetics, July 1, 1997
Van de Ven, Cosmas J. M., from Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Clinical
Assistant Professor II of Obstetrics and Gynecology, November 1, 1997
College of Pharmacy
Bickley, Susan K., from Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy to Clinical Assistant
Professor I of Pharmacy, December 15, 1997
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Remski, Joan C., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Mathematics, September 1, 1997
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Medical School
Chethik, Morton, Clinical Associate Professor Emeritus of Child Psychoanalysis, January 1 -December 31, 1998
Sloan, Herbert, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, July 1, 1997-June 30, 1998


182




December Meeting, 1997


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Kim, Jong-Jin, Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1998
School of Art and Design
West, Edward, Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
School of Dentistry
Johnson, Richard A., Clinical Associate Professor II of Dentistry, extended sick leave,
September 28, 1997-January 11, 1998
School of Education
Berger, Carl F., Professor of Education, with tenure, extended sick leave, February 6, 1997 -February 5, 1998
School of Information
Olson, Gary M., Associate Dean and Professor of Information, with tenure, School of
Information, and Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Brace, Charles L., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1998
Howrey, E. Philip, Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Professor of Statistics, without
tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
Koreeda, Masato, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, without tenure, College of Pharmacy,
sabbatival leave, September 1-December 31, 1997
Lormand, Eric P., Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1998
Mizruchi, Mark S., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Professor of Business Administration, without tenure, School of Business
Administration, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
Morris, Michael D., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Nussbaum, Ronald A., Professor of Zoology, without tenure, and Curator, Museum of
Zoology, duty off campus, October 1, 1997-January 15, 1998
Paulson, William R., Professor of French, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Rasmussen, Paul G., Professor of Chemistry and Macromolecular Science and Engineering,
with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
Savit, Robert S., Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
Skantze, P. A., Assistant Professor of English, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1997
Medical School
Ballester, Christina B., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, extended sick leave, November 6 -December 18, 1997
Chepeha, Douglas B., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, personal leave, July 1-August 31, 1997
Koomey, John M., Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, duty
off campus, November 11-December 10, 1997
Reed, Barbara D., Associate Professor of Family Medicine, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1997
Velez-Aguayo, Evelyn, Assistant Professor of Dance, School of Music, medical/childcare
leave, December 11, 1997-February 1, 1998
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Anderson, Donald F., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January
1-April 30, 1998
Bjorn, Lars, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1998
183




December Meeting, 1997


Levin, Donald M., Professor of Sociology, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1998
Swift, Dan J., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -April 30, 1998
CORRECTION TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Kling, George W., II, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave September
1-December 31, 1997, and scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
(previously reported as sabbatical leave September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998
Pinch, Adela N., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's
Studies, with tenure, extended sick leave, September 23-December 31, 1997, and duty
off campus January 1-May 31, 1998 (previously reported as duty off campus September 1 -December 31, 1997, and sabbatical leave January 1-May 21, 1998)
Terada, Rei M., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 1998 (previously reported as sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Dentistry
Loos, Paul J., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, retired, December 31, 1997
College of Engineering
Akcasu, Ziyaeddin A., Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Macromolecular
Sciences, term complete, April 30, 1997
Donahue, Thomas M., Edward H. White II Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of
Planetary Science, College of Engineering, and Professor Emeritus of Physics, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, term complete, April 30, 1997
Mathes, John C., Professor Emeritus of Technical Communication, term complete, April 30, 1997
Patterson, Donald J., Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, term complete,
April 30, 1997
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Barrows, Herbert C., Jr., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, term
complete, April 30, 1997
Brown, Donald R., Professor Emeritus of Psychology, term complete, April 30, 1997
Eldersveld, Samuel J., Professor Emeritus of Political Science, term complete, April 30, 1997
Hermalin, Albert I., Professor of Sociology, retired, December 31, 1997
Livermore, Shaw, Jr., Professor Emeritus of History, term complete, April 30, 1997
McLain, Paula J., Lecturer I in English, resigned, August 31, 1997
Mersereau, John, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Slavic Languages and Literatures, term complete
Zafar, Rafia M., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, resigned,
December 31, 1997
Medical School
Brieland, Joan K., Assistant Professor of Laboratory Animal Medicine, resigned,
November 14, 1997
Hulse, Paula A., Lecturer in Radiology, resigned, December 17, 1997
Lillie, John H., Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, Medical School, and
Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, School of Dentistry, retired, January 5, 1998
Lindenauer, S. Martin, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medival School, and Professor of
Health Management and Policy, without tenure, retired, June 30, 1997
Morley, George W., Norman F. Miller Professor of Obstetrics, with tenure, retired,
December 31, 1997
Smith, William S., Professor Emeritus of Surgery, term complete, February 28, 1997


184




December Meeting, 1997


Whitehouse, Frank, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Microbiology, term complete,
April 30, 1997
School of Nursing
McKee, Carole J., Lecturer in Nursing, resigned, December 31, 1997
UM-Flint College ofArts and Sciences
Richardson, Frank C., Professor Emeritus of French, German, and Comparative Literature,
term complete, April 30, 1997
Retirement Memoirs. Provost Cantor submitted thirteen retirement
memoirs.
John Russell Brown, professor of theatre and drama in the School of
Music and professor of English language and literature in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 1997.
Professor Brown received his B.A. (1949) and M.A. (1952) degrees from
Oxford University and his Ph.D. degree in 1960 from the University of
Birmingham. From 1951-57, he was a fellow, then dean at the Shakespeare
Institute, Stratford-upon-Avon. He then served as lecturer and senior lecturer
(1957-63) in the Department of English, then head of the Department of Drama
and Theatre Arts (1963-71) at the University of Birmingham (England). He
was a professor of English at the University of Sussex from 1971-82 and
professor of theatre arts at the State University of New York at Stony Brook
from 1982-85. He came to the University of Michigan in 1985 as professor
and chair of the Department of Theatre and Drama and professor of English
language and literature.
Professor Brown is a scholar who loves the stage. His scholarly work has
always been informed by a special awareness of the practical realities of
theater, and this orientation has defined his prominence among Shakespeare
scholars for 40 years. His earliest successes stemmed from a fresh insistence
that Shakespeare's plays be treated as stage pieces rather than as texts simply
to be read. Shakespeare's Plays in Performance (1966) and Free Shakespeare
(1974) have remained influential in this crusade to this day. Somewhat later,
he served for 15 years as associate director of the National Theatre in
London, searching for important modem works for the stage while at the
same time breathing fresh new life into old ones. Later still, he began to
direct performances of Elizabethan and modern works. He has directed
professional productions at theaters in England and in the United States, as
well as numerous student productions at the University of Michigan and
elsewhere. He recently edited and contributed to The Oxford Illustrated
History of Theatre (1995) and currently has several books in press.
A vibrant, challenging teacher, Professor Brown addressed large issues,
asked big questions, and wanted expansive responses from students. His
excitement and authority could sometimes intimidate at first, but students
invariably became Brown enthusiasts.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
John Russell Brown professor emeritus of theatre and drama and professor
emeritus of English language and literature.
Thomas N. Filson, associate professor of education at the University of
Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1997.


185




December Meeting, 1997


Professor Filson received his A.B. degree at Chico State College (California)
in 1954 and his Ph.D. degree at the University of Minnesota in 1957. From
1957-60, he taught at Hastings College (Nebraska) and then Hastings Public
Schools. He was an assistant, then associate, professor at Western Illinois
University from 1960-67. He joined the University of Michigan-Flint faculty in
1967 as an associate professor of education.
During his thirty years on the faculty, Professor Filson has taught courses
in educational foundations, educational psychology, and principles of psychology
and has supervised student teachers and students in fieldwork placements. A
specialist in instructional psychology and human learning, he is the author of
Instructional Decision Making (William Brown Book Company, 1969).
Professor Filson has played a leadership role in establishing the undergraduate
foundations block program. The foundations block is an innovative approach
to initiating students into teacher education through a coordinated experience
involving a fieldwork placement in schools, a reflective seminar, and coursework
in social foundations of education and educational psychology. Working with
other members of the department, Professor Filson helped establish the
foundations block and served for many years as the coordinator of the block
experience.
During the 1993-94 academic year, Professor Filson was interim chair of
the education department. Throughout his career, he has played an active
role in faculty governance. He has served on a number of key departmental
committees, and most recently, as chair of the College of Arts and Sciences
Curriculum Committee. A dedicated teacher and mentor, Professor Filson
has devoted his career to helping undergraduates become distinguished
teachers.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his
dedicated service by naming Thomas N. Filson associate professor emeritus
of education.
Ilene H. Forsyth, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor of History of Art and
professor of history of art in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts,
will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1997.
Professor Forsyth received her A.B. degree from the University of
Michigan in 1950 and her A.M. and Ph.D. degrees in 1955 and 1960,
respectively, from  Columbia University.  She joined the University of
Michigan faculty as a lecturer in 1961. She was promoted to assistant
professor in 1963, associate professor in 1968, and professor in 1974. She was
named Arthur F. Thurnau Professor in 1984.
Professor Forsyth's first book, The Throne of Wisdom: Wood Sculptures
of the Madonna in Romanesque France (Princeton University Press, 1972)
received the prestigious Charles Rufus Morey Book Award of the College Art
Association of America in 1974. It is a classic in the field, posing a series of
questions about tradition, style, liturgical function, and social context that are
still the foci of fruitful debate. In addition to a long list of important edited
volumes, articles, and reviews, she has also published The Uses of Art:
Medieval Metaphor in the Michigan Law Quadrangle (University of Michigan
Press, 1993), for which she received the Annie Award for Excellence in the Arts
from the Washtenaw Council for the Arts. A monograph, The Romanesque


186




December Meeting, 1997


Sculpture of Saint-Andoche, Saulieu, is among major scholarly works
forthcoming.
Students in a wide range of specializations have benefited from the
rigorous training provided by Professor Forsyth. Her status as a board
member of many national and international organizations has helped shape
the field of art history and has lent special prestige to the University of
Michigan. Her energy and commitment have made her a mainstay of the
department and of the broader University; she has served on numerous
departmental, college, and University-wide committees.
Professor Forsyth has been honored by appointments as visiting
professor at Harvard University (1980), Andrew Mellon Professor at the
University of Pittsburgh (1981), and distinguished professor of medieval
studies at the University of California at Berkeley (1996). She has been
appointed Kress Professor at the National Gallery of Art for 1998-99.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Ilene
H. Forsyth Arthur F. Thurnau Professor Emerita of History of Art and professor
emerita of history of art.
Richard W. Fortner, professor of management and former dean of the
School of Management at the University of Michigan-Flint, will retire from
active faculty status on December 31, 1997.
A native of Indiana, Professor Fortner received his B.S. (1953), M.B.A.
(1954), and D.B.A. (1964) degrees from Indiana University. From 1954-80, he
taught at the U.S.A.F. Institute of Technology, Wittenberg University,
Indiana University, and the University of Rochester. He joined the University of
Michigan-Flint in 1980 as dean of the School of Management. During his
tenure as dean, he was instrumental in attaining accreditation from the
American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business for the undergraduate
program in 1982 and graduate business programs in 1986, and re-accreditation
in 1992.
Professor Fortner's honors include the United States Steel Foundation
Fellowship, the Indiana CPA's Gold Watch Award, and Indiana University
Business School's Senior Rawles Prize. He was awarded the Legion of Merit
by the U.S. Air Force for his performance as senior reservist in the U.S.A.F.
Systems Command Directorate of Contracting and Manufacturing. He is a
member of Phi Eta Sigma, Beta Gamma Sigma, and Beta Alpha Psi.
Professor Fortner has been a member of the Michigan Society of CPAs; the
Rochester, New York, Chamber of Commerce (member, Finance Committee,
1963-80); American Accounting Association; the Institute of Management
Accountants (director of the Rochester Chapter from 1966-73); the Consortium
for Graduate Study in Management (member of the board of directors and of
the executive committee, 1968-80); the New York Society of CPA's (member,
board of directors of the state society and of the executive board, Rochester
Chapter, 1975-78); Graduate Management Admission Council (Rochester
representative, 1974-80; member of the board of trustees, 1976-80; chair,
1978-79); and the Reserve Officers Association. On the Flint campus, Professor
Fortner has served on numerous departmental and campus-wide committees.
His community activities include membership in the Rotary Club of Flint, the
Greater Flint Arts Council, the New Vic Dinner Theatre, and the Friends of
WFBE-FM Radio.


187




December Meeting, 1997


The Regents now salute this distinguished business educator for his
dedicated service by naming Richard W. Fortner professor emeritus of
management and dean emeritus.
Albert I. Hermalin, professor of sociology and research scientist at the
Population Studies Center, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will
retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1997.
Professor Hermalin received his B.S. degree in 1949 from City College of
New York and his M.A. (1966) and Ph.D. (1969) degrees from Princeton
University. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1967 as a lecturer
in sociology and research associate in the Population Studies Center. He was
promoted to assistant professor in 1969, associate professor in 1972, and
professor in 1978. Within the Population Studies Center, Professor Hermalin
served as associate director from 1972-76, director from 1977-87, and interim
director in 1990-91. He was promoted to research scientist in 1987.
Early in his career, Professor Hermalin and his collaborators carried out
pioneering investigations of the transition from very high to very low birth
rates in Taiwan. Due to these efforts, this demographic change, which has
occurred in many nations, is more completely understood and better
documented in Taiwan than in any other nation. After birth rates fall
rapidly, the age structure of the population shifts and the challenges of an
aging population begin to appear. By the 1980s, Professor Hermalin had
become a leader in the demography of aging, especially within East and
Southeast Asia. Due to his efforts, major funding was obtained from the
National Institute on Aging to create the Michigan Exploratory Center on the
Demography of Aging-a now thriving program that is promoting excellent
demographic research.
Professor Hermalin has also been an effective mentor for dozens of
doctoral students. During his tenure as director of the Population Studies
Center, he was responsible for obtaining major funding from the National
Institutes of Child Health and Human Development. Due to his fundraising
efforts and his exceptionally skillful management, the Population Studies Center
should continue for many years to be one of the nation's outstanding centers for
population research and doctoral training.
In 1989, Professor Hermalin was awarded the Robert J. Lapham Prize by
the Population Association of America for his contributions to the discipline.
He served as president of that organization in 1993.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Albert I.
Hermalin professor emeritus of sociology and research scientist emeritus.
Peter B. Kaufman, professor of biology, College of Literature, Science
and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1997,
following 41 years of service.
Professor Kaufman received his B.Sc. degree in 1949 from Cornell
University and his Ph.D. degree in 1954 from the University of California at
Davis. After a year of postdoctoral study at The Ohio State University, Dr.
Kaufman joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1956 as an instructor.
He was promoted to assistant professor in 1957, associate professor in 1962,
and professor in 1972.


188




December Meeting, 1997


Professor Kaufman's early interest in the action of herbicides on weeds
expanded into a research program that explored various aspects of plant growth
and development, including the roles of hormones and of environmental factors,
such as gravity, on plants.  These activities resulted in a number of
publications. In his studies of plant development, Professor Kaufman has
conducted research on the actions of hormones such as the gibberillins on
stem growth. Additional work has addressed the influence of gravity on this
process, a phenomenon known as gravitropism. A third area of investigation
by Professor Kaufman's group has been the elucidation of structural details of
the plant cell wall, a cellular structure that is intimately involved in stem
growth and development.
Professor Kaufman's classroom activities included teaching popular
courses on the topic of organismal plant biology. Several generations of
students have profited from their exposure to "Plants and Man" and to the
course he taught on plant biotechnology for a number of years. His teaching
activities led to the production of textbooks used in introductory plant
courses, and he was featured in "The House Botanist," a series of educational
television programs produced by the University of Michigan Television
Center.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Peter B. Kaufman professor emeritus of biology.
John H. Lillie, D.D.S., professor of anatomy and cell biology in the
Medical School and professor of dentistry in the School of Dentistry, will
retire from active faculty status on January 5, 1998.
After attending Kalamazoo College from 1959-62, Dr. Lillie received
D.D.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1966,
1969, and 1972, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in
1972 as an assistant professor in the Medical School and in the School of
Dentistry. He was promoted to associate professor of dentistry in 1978,
associate professor of anatomy in 1979, professor of anatomy in 1985, and
professor of dentistry in 1991. From 1989-91 he also served as interim
assistant dean for pre doctoral education in the School of Dentistry.
Dr. Lillie has had a distinguished career as a gross anatomist, having
applied his clinical knowledge of dentistry to undergraduate and graduate
dental teaching in a number of anatomy courses. He is an acknowledged
expert in this field, and his recent book, Sectional Anatomy of the Head and
Neck, is a real testimony to his skills and impact in that area. Also extremely
effective in the classroom, Dr. Lillie has received eight awards for his dental
teaching.
For many years, Dr. Lillie directed an important research program on
basement membrane biology. Most recently, he coordinated the electron
microscopy component of a groundbreaking study involving the digital
electron microscopic imaging and montaging of human nerve biopsies.
During his tenure as interim assistant dean, Dr. Lillie played a very
influential role in the administration of the School of Dentistry. He has also
served the University well in the sphere of administration at other levels.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his
dedicated service by naming John H. Lillie, professor emeritus of anatomy
and cell biology and professor emeritus of dentistry.


189




December Meeting, 1997


S. Martin Lindenauer, M.D., professor of surgery, retired from active
faculty status on June 30, 1997, after a most productive career as a teacher,
researcher, and clinician.
A native of New York, Dr. Lindenauer attended Dartmouth College from
1950-53. He then entered Tufts Medical School, where he received his M.D.
degree in 1957. He served his internship at the U.S. Army Hospital, Fort
Benning, Georgia, followed by a residency in general surgery at the University
of Michigan from 1960-64. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in
1964 as an instructor in surgery and was promoted to assistant professor in
1967, associate professor in 1969, and professor in 1972.
From 1968-75, Dr. Lindenauer was chief of the surgical service at the
Ann Arbor Veterans Administration Hospital, and from 1974-81 he served
that institution as chief of staff. He was also an associate dean of the Medical
School from 1974-81 and was associate chief of clinical affairs at University
Hospitals from 1984-88. Dr. Lindenauer's research, evident in over 175
scientific publications, included seminal contributions on the development of
both biologic and synthetic vascular grafts. His laboratory studies of the
microcirculation were among the first to define the importance and control of
arteriovenous anastomoses.  His clinical research was far-ranging, with
important contributions on the management of pelvic neoplasms and the
diagnosis and treatment of both arterial and venous diseases.
Dr. Lindenauer mentored hundreds of students and was personally
responsible for developing the careers of dozens of young physicians who now
hold professorial positions at many of our nation's most prestigious medical
schools. His administrative leadership contributed greatly to the successful
academic mission of the Veterans Administration and University of Michigan
medical centers.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his
dedicated service by naming S. Martin Lindenauer professor emeritus of
surgery.
Paul J. Loos, D.D.S., associate professor of dentistry in the School of
Dentistry, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1997.
Dr. Loos received his B.S. and D.D.S. degrees from Creighton University
in 1954 and 1959, respectively, and his M.S. degree in pedodontics from the
University of Michigan in 1968. He joined the University of Michigan faculty
as an assistant professor in 1970 and was promoted to associate professor in
1974. Since 1971, Dr. Loos has held an appointment as an attending staff
member at University Hospitals. During this time, he served as chair of
Hospital Dentistry from 1979-87, director of Hospital Dentistry from 1987-91,
and director of the General Practice Residency program from 1983-86. He
also served as interim director of the pediatric dentistry graduate program in
the School of Dentistry from 1991-93.
Within the Department of Pediatric Dentistry, Dr. Loos has been a
strong participant in teaching and clinic activity and has served as chair of the
graduate student selection committee. He has also served on numerous
committees within the School of Dentistry, and during his appointment at
University Hospitals he was actively involved in the quality assurance
program, the planning committee for the Maternal and Child Health Care


190




December Meeting, 1997


Center, the ambulatory care committee, the patient care subcommittee, and
the Mott Hospital surgical advisory committee.
Over the years, Dr. Loos has served as a consultant for numerous
agencies, including the USPHS Indian Health Service, the Hemophilia of
Michigan Summer Camp Program, the American Society of Dentistry for the
Handicapped, and the Delta Dental Plan of Michigan PANDA Project. He
received the Presidential Award of Appreciation from the Michigan Academy
of Pediatric Dentistry and the H. K. Addelston Award for Excellence in the
Dental Literature from American Society of Dentistry for Children. Dr. Loos
is a fellow of the American Association of Hospital Dentistry and of the
American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry, and is a member of Omicron
Kappa Upsilon honorary society.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health sciences educator by
naming Paul J. Loos associate professor emeritus of dentistry.
Melvin Manis, professor of psychology, will retire from active faculty
status on December 31, 1997.
Professor Manis received his A.B. degree from Franklin and Marshall
College in 1951 and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Illinois in 1954.
From 1954-58, he served first as a Public Health Service commissioned officer
in Washington, D.C., and then as an instructor in the psychology department
of the University of Pittsburgh. He came to Ann Arbor in 1958 as chief of the
Psychology Research Section of the VA Medical Center, a position he held
until 1989, and as a lecturer in the University of Michigan Department of
Psychology. He was promoted to associate professor in 1961, received tenure
in 1963, and was promoted to professor in 1966. He has also held visiting
appointments at universities around the globe.
Professor Manis is one of the leading scholars in the area of attitudes and
social judgment. He has made outstanding contributions to our understanding
of human judgmental processes in 2 books, numerous chapters, and more than
60 peer-reviewed research articles. His work covers a wide range of judgmental
phenomena, including the operation of standards, the emergence of assimilation
and contrast effects, the role of stereotypes and prejudice in person perception,
and the cognitive processes involved in assessing psychopathology. Several of
his papers have become classic citations in cognitive social psychology. His
outstanding reputation in the field is also reflected in his appointment as editor
of the Attitudes and Social Cognition Section of the Journal of Personality and
Social Psychology (1979-84), the most prestigious journal in personality and
social psychology.
Professor Manis has served on numerous committees for national
professional and governmental organizations. Within the University, he has
served on the Senate Assembly, as associate chair and chair of graduate
training of the psychology department, and as area chair of the social
psychology program, the personality program, and the joint program in social
psychology of the departments of psychology and sociology.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Melvin Manis professor emeritus of psychology.


191




December Meeting, 1997


George W. Morley, M.D., Norman F. Miller Professor of Gynecology
and professor of obstetrics and gynecology, will retire from active faculty
status on December 31, 1997.
Dr. Morley earned his B.S. (1944), M.D. (1949), and M.S. (1955) degrees and
completed his internship and residency training (1949-54), at the University of
Michigan. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1956 as an instructor
in obstetrics and gynecology. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1958,
associate professor in 1961, and professor in 1970. He became chief of the
Gynecologic Oncology Service in 1964 and director of the Gynecologic Oncology
Fellowship, which he initiated, in 1971. In 1987, he was named the first Norman
F. Miller Professor of Gynecology.
Dr. Morley is one of America's most distinguished gynecologic surgeons.
Board certified in obstetrics and gynecology in 1958 and in gynecologic oncology
in 1974, his academic pursuits have spanned the full breadth of obstetrics and
gynecology. He is best known for his work as a surgeon for benign and
malignant gynecologic disease. Dr. Morley's bibliography lists over 110 articles
and 15 book chapters, including major contributions on radical hysterectomy
and radical vulvectomy. He is best known for his work establishing the role of
pelvic exenteration in the treatment of recurrent cancer of the cervix. This
series has the highest five-year survival rate reported in the literature and
remains a landmark of success in treating recurrent pelvic neoplasm.
Dr. Morley has been elected president of the American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the Society of Pelvic Surgeons, the Society of
Gynecologic Oncologists, the Society of Gynecologic Surgeons, and the Norman
F. Miller Gynecologic Society. He has also served as a member of the board of
governors of the American College of Surgeons. He has three times been listed
as among America's ten best obstetricians and gynecologists.
In the operating room, Dr. Morley was not only a firm master, but also a
patient teacher, assuring that all members of the surgical team learned both
the fundamental principles and the final nuances of operative gynecology. He
is also an excellent lecturer and discussant. In recognition of Dr. Morley's
contributions, in 1993 the Gynecologic Oncology Service at the University of
Michigan Medical Center was named the George W. Morley Service. After an
extraordinarily short campaign, the George W. Morley Collegiate
Professorship was established.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physician and teacher by
naming George W. Morley the Norman F. Miller Professor Emeritus of
Gynecology and professor emeritus of obstetrics and gynecology.
Elizabeth Mutschler, associate professor of social work, will retire
from active faculty status on December 31, 1997.
Professor Mutschler received her Diploma in Social Work from the
School of Social Work in Ludwigsburg, Germany, in 1968, and received her
M.S.W. and Ph.D. degrees in 1972 and 1975, respectively, from Washington
University. From 1975-78, she served on the faculty of the University of
Maryland at Baltimore. She joined the University of Michigan School of
Social Work as an assistant professor in 1979 and was promoted to associate
professor in 1984.
Professor Mutschler's scholarly contributions have centered on three
areas: analysis of treatment procedures and therapists' behaviors that facilitate


192




December Meeting, 1997


client change; evaluation of factors related to therapists' use of empirical
procedures in clinical practice; and technology-based decision support and
information processing to help therapists identify treatment objectives and
monitor outcomes. Her work is highly-regarded, particularly her important
contributions on clinical evaluation and her activities in computer-assisted
decision-making. She conducted a landmark study of factors associated with
therapists' use of empirical procedures in clinical agency settings, and has
made groundbreaking advances in adapting computer technology to enhance
clinical decision-making. She continues to be an international leader in
computer technology for social work.
Within the School of Social Work, Professor Mutschler is known for
setting high standards in the classroom and for promoting the use of
computers in social work courses and practice. Her considerable service
contributions include her work on the University Research Priorities
Committee and on the Senate Assembly. She has assisted with management
information systems development at area hospitals and has conducted
workshops on technology for faculty and students. Professor Mutschler is
truly a pioneer, having forged significant new paths of learning and having
worked tirelessly to assist social workers around the world in achieving the
best possible modes of practice.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Elizabeth Mutschler associate professor emerita of social work.
Catherine A. Nadon-Gabrion, professor of music (music education) in
the School of Music and lecturer in education in the School of Education, will
retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1997.
Professor Nadon-Gabrion earned her B.Mus. (1962) and M.Mus (1966)
degrees at the New England Conservatory of Music and her Ed.D. degree in
1979 at the University of Massachusetts. From 1962-68 she was a public
school music teacher in Massachusetts. She served as assistant professor of
music at Westfield State College from 1968-72 and as coordinator of general
and choral music in the Montgomery County (Maryland) Public Schools from
1972-77. She joined the faculty of the University of Michigan as associate
professor of music in 1977 and was promoted to professor in 1994.
Professor Nadon-Gabrion was a dedicated teacher of teaching-herself
manifesting all of that profession's generous impulses and controversial
history in research universities. She well understands the challenges of
teaching in the public schools and is committed to providing realism,
relevance, and idealism in courses designed for prospective teachers. She
practiced "hands on" education and was immensely concerned for the
progress of students under her tutelage. She maintained that elusive balance
between a nurturing, supportive rapport versus requisite honesty in
evaluation of students' work. She was an energetic motivator.
Professor Nadon-Gabrion built a formidable reputation on practical
applications of strategies for successful teaching in general music classrooms
in public schools. Her numerous textbooks reached a sizable percentage of
elementary students in the United States. Partially as a result of the
prominence brought about by this authorship, Professor Nadon-Gabrion is in
constant demand as a speaker at music education conferences, school
districts, and sister institutions of higher education. Since 1990, she has led


193




December Meeting, 1997


workshops, lectured, and consulted in 21 states and in Germany, Japan,
Panama, and South Korea. Her energy and enthusiasm capture a crowd, and
teachers have returned to their classrooms enriched and invigorated.
Professor Nadon-Gabrion has made far-reaching contributions within her
profession.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Catherine A. Nadon-Gabrion professor emerita of music (music education).
Memorials.    Provost Cantor noted that although there are no
memorials for faculty members, two students had died tragically within the
past two weeks. She expressed the University's condolences to the families.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Horning,
seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent
Agenda.
Alternative Asset Investment
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $10 million of the Long Term
Portfolio to MHR Institutional Partners LP. Regent Newman disclosed that
Dr. Mark Rachesky, a principle of MHR, is her brother-in-law, and that she
had no involvement in this investment recommendation. She recused herself
from consideration of the recommendation and abstained from voting.
Commitment of $6.5 Million from Long Term Portfolio to Matrix
Partners V, L.P.
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that a follow-on investment of
$6.5 million had been made in Matrix Partners V, L.P., in November 1997,
pursuant to the Regents' policy allowing a follow-on investment in a new
fund sponsored by a previously-approved partnership, provided the fund has
the same investment strategy and core investment personnel as the prior
fund.
Sale of Tax Exempt Commercial Paper to Finance University's
Projects
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously approved authorization of an increase in the amount
outstanding of the commercial paper, supported by a pledge of general
revenues, by $18.6 million to $48.2 million, as described in the Regents'
Communication.
University of Michigan Business School Growth Fund
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of R. Douglas Armstrong, Paul S.
Brentlinger, Cleveland A. Christophe, William K. Hall, and Michael T. Klein
to the Wolverine Venture Fund (WVF) Advisory Committee and approved
revisions to the terms of the Growth Fund and the s unoperating policies of its
Board of Trustees, as described in the Regents Communication.


194




December Meeting, 1997


Recreationa Sports= Central Campus Recreation BuidinIg (CCRB)
Receiving Faciity Addition
Executive Vice President Kasdin called on Mr. Douglas Hanna,
university architect, to present proposed plans for an addition to the Central
Campus Recreation Building. Mr. Hannah gave a presentation using maps,
schematic drawings, and computer renderings to illustrate plans for the
addition.  Following the presentation, Regent McFee moved approval to
proceed with the project and design as described. Regent Newman seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Medical Science I A Wing Laboratory Remodeling
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved proceeding with a project to upgrade the
interior of the Medical Science I Building, as described in the Regents
Communication.
Purchasixg Contract with Rebaus Planingg Associates, InCo
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Rebus Planning
Associates, Inc. Regent Deitch was away from the table when the vote was
taken.
Because the owner of Rebus Planning Associates, Inc., Samuel J.
Meisels, is also a University of Michigan faculty member, this contract falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchasing contract will be the Regents of the University of
Michigan and Rebus Planning Associates, Inc.
2.  Terms of the contract to support a University of Michigan research grant
will be the purchase of training for six staff members to attend the Work
Sampling System training workshop, totaling $3,000. The duration will be
until December 31, 1997.
3.  Dr. Meisels' pecuniary interest arises from his position as owner of Rebus
Planning Associates, Inc.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Mlc mgan
and IDE~, InCo
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved a license agreement between the University
of Michigan and IDE, Inc. Regent Deitch was away from the table when the
vote was taken.
Because the owners of IDE, Inc., Drs. Les Rogers and Neal Clinthorne,
are also University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and IDE, Inc.


195




December Meeting, 1997


2.   Terms of the agreement include:
The contracts to be completed between the University and IDE include the
license to be executed as well as documents covering stock transfers and
related matters. A sponsored research contract between the University and
IDE, Inc., will be the subject of a separate Regental action request.
The license will provide IDE, Inc., with exclusive rights to the technology for
the field of x-ray and gamma-ray imaging applications. The University will
retain ownership of the technology, internal research use rights, the right to
convey the standard governmental license, and commercialization rights in
fields outside of the field granted exclusively to IDE, Inc.
The University will receive a royalty of 1.0% to 2.0% (depending upon the
patentability of the incorporated technology) of all net sales of products of
IDE, Inc., and 20% of all royalties IDE, Inc., receives from sublicensees. The
University will also receive a modest minimum annual royalty of $5,000
beginning in 2000.
The license will require that IDE, Inc., secure at least $2,000,000 in outside
funding for the company's development activities by December 31, 1999.
Once that funding has been obtained, the University will receive equity
under a separate agreement equal to a number of shares which, after such
receipt, will equal 13% of the total number of shares issued to or reserved
for all parties in any way, including all options, warrants, and convertible
securities exercisable therefore, and all shares reserved for future issuance.
IDE, Inc., will be obligated to use its best efforts to develop products based
upon the technology and to give primary consideration to the maintenance
of business offices in the state of Michigan.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, will be obligated under the license and agreements related
thereto. As previously noted, a sponsored research contract between the
University and IDE, Inc., will be the subject of a separate Regental action
request.
3.   Drs. Rogers' and Clinthorne's pecuniary interests arise from their equity
ownership interest in IDE, Inc. In accordance with the University Policy on
Intellectual Property, they will waive any personal participation in the
sharing of revenues received by the University from IDE, Inc. (The other
inventors of the technology will share in such revenues in accordance with
the University policy, on a pro rata basis under a sharing agreement ratified
by all inventors.)
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and
VisiTek, Inc. (VisiTek)
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved a research agreement between the University
of Michigan and VisiTek, Inc., (VisiTek) for performance of a project funded
by a SBIR Phase I grant. Because Yi L. Murphey is both president and
owner of VisiTek and a University of Michigan employee, this agreement
falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:


196




December Meeting, 1997


1.  Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and VisiTek,
Inc. (VisiTek).
2.  Terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of
performance is six months at a total cost of $26,208.
3.  The pecuniary interests are as follows. Dr. Yi L. Murphey, a University of
Michigan employee who is also president and owner of VisiTek, will receive
approximately $10,000 for her services as president in 1997 and $35,000 in
1998 for her work on behalf of VisiTek with regard to the subject SBIR
award. In addition, she holds 100% of the company's stock. Effective
January 1, 1998, Professor Murphey's appointment at the University will be
reduced to 50% so that she may serve as VisiTek's principal investigator for
the project.
4.  Zongnan Lu is an employee of the University with a 100% appointment. In
addition to his work at the University, Mr. Lu will perform work for VisiTek
on the project up to 16 hours per week at a pay rate of $25.00 per hour.
Establishment of School of Education and Human Services at
UM-Flint
Chancellor Nelms observed that the proposed changes reflect the
maturation of the University of Michigan-Flint, from its founding in 1965 as
a liberal arts college to its current configuration that includes a number of
professional programs. He noted that currently, education is the single
largest major on the campus and that the Flint campus is the largest
provider of teachers for the Flint/Mid-Michigan region of the state. Creation
of the School of Education and Human Services will allow the campus to
respond more effectively to the needs of the urban environment in which the
campus is located.
He noted that faculty consultation will continue to be sought as the new
structure is implemented and announced that the Charles Stewart Mott
Foundation has made a commitment of $1.5 million to implement the new
structure.  This grant will provide administrative support and faculty
positions, enabling the campus to improve its service learning programs.
President Bollinger commented that the Ann Arbor campus fully
supports this proposal. Regent McFee inquired whether the "Communities
in Schools" program is active in the city of Flint. Chancellor Nelms
responded that one of the faculty positions to be funded by the program will
serve as a resource to the community. He noted that a number of
community leaders in Flint had visited schools in other states to see how the
community education movement operates. He said he anticipates that a
community education initiative will be announced in the coming months that
would be similar to, but somewhat different from, the original community
education movement. He noted that this movement had been started in
Flint and funded by the Mott Foundation about 25 years ago.
Regent Maynard observed that it is important that institutions in an
urban setting are relevant to the community, and that the new initiative was
very exciting in this regard.


197




December Meeting, 1997


Regent McGowan moved that the faculties of the Department of
Education and the Department of Social Work (both currently in the College
of Arts and Sciences) be united into one school, named the School of
Education and Human Services. Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it
was approved unanimously.
Establishment of a New Degree Program at University of MichiganFlint
Regent Power moved approval of creation of a new degree program,
"Bachelor of Science in Administration of Services to the Aged," in the
School of Health Professions and Studies at the University of Michigan-Flint.
Regent Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Recommendation for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Power, and on
the recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive
Board, the Regents unanimously approved several appointments to medical
staff membership.
Creation of Position of Vice President and General Counsel
President Bollinger stated that he is proposing creation of the position
of vice president and general counsel, to be appointed by the Board of
Regents on the recommendation of the president and reporting directly to
the president. To the extent that the Bylaws need to be amended to
incorporate this position and to define its authority, amendments will be
proposed as part of the current process of Bylaws revision.
Regent Newman moved approval of creation of the position of vice
president and general counsel. Regent Horning seconded the motion, and it
was approved unanimously.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 10:10
a.m. Regents expenses for November 1997 totaled $868.66. The next
meeting is scheduled for January 15-16, 1998.
Roberta R. Palmer
Secretary of the University


198




JANUARY MEETING, 1998


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, January 15, 1998
The Regents convened at 1:45 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
Regents Horning, Maynard, McFee, McGowan, Newman, and Power. Also
present were Executive Vice President Kasdin, Provost Cantor, Vice
President Harrison, and Interim Co-General Counsel Barry. Regent Taylor,
Vice Presidents Hartford, Kinnear, and Neidhardt, Chancellor Nelms, and
Chancellor Renick were absent. Associate Vice President Julie Ellison
attended in the place of Vice President Neidhardt. Regent Deitch arrived at
about 2:00 p.m.; President Bollinger arrived at 2:20 p.m.
Regent Power called the meeting to order at 1:45 p.m. Vice President
Harrison announced that President Bollinger's plane had been delayed and
was due to arrive in Detroit from Boston shortly; the president had
requested that the meeting be convened with Regent Power presiding until
he arrived.
Medical School Sesquicentennial
Regent Power called on Regent McFee, who noted that she was very
pleased to be able to read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
One hundred and fifty years ago, on January 19, 1848, the
Regents of the University of Michigan officially established the
University of Michigan Medical School. In so doing, our predecessors
not only acknowledged the University's developing strength in the
biomedical sciences, they anticipated the broader community's future
needs for excellence in medical education and research and for
outstanding medical care.
The University of Michigan Medical School and its parent, the
University of Michigan Health System, are today among the nation's
finest. We congratulate the Medical School for its rich heritage and
note with pleasure its prospects for future excellence.
There followed a round of applause, after which Executive Vice President
Omenn noted that he had invited some leaders of the Medical Center to attend
the meeting. He introduced former Medical School deans William Hubbard
(1959-70) and Giles Bole (1990-96), and former vice provost for health affairs
Rhetaugh Dumas (1994-97). He noted that Dr. James Neel had planned to
attend, but was ill. He noted that Dr. Neel had begun his tenure as a Medical
School faculty member during the school's centennial, 50 years ago, and that he
personally considered Dr. Neel's career to have been one of the most
distinguished in American medicine, and especially in the field of human
genetics.


199




January Meeting, 1998


Executive Vice President Omenn read the following remarks that Dr.
Neel had prepared:
It is an extraordinary privilege to say a few words concerning
the upcoming 150th anniversary celebration of our medical school
during the academic year 1999-2000. I suspect my presence as a
faculty spokesperson stems from the fact that I am one of the few
medical school faculty who has been active here during the 50 years
since we celebrated the centennial, and so have personally witnessed
the developments during this period. We carried a proud tradition
of excellence and innovation into the 1950 celebration, and I believe
you'll find that tradition alive and well for the 150th.
Executive Vice President Omenn noted that he will keep the Regents
informed of plans for celebration of the sesquicentennial as they materialize.
He also reviewed some of the history of the Medical School, noting that one
of the original members of the Board of Regents, Dr. Zina Pitcher, had been
a leader in its founding.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. The minutes of the November 1997 meeting were submitted
for approval.
Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted the Investment and
Plant Extension Reports. Interim Co-General Counsel Barry submitted the
Litigation Report. Vice President Kasdin submitted the Human Resources and
Affirmative Action Report and the Regents Report on Noncompetitive
Purchases over $5,000 from Single Sources for September 1 - December 31, 1997.
Associate Vice President Ellison submitted the report on Projects Established for
December 1997.
Associate Vice President Ellison called the Regents' attention to the public
premiere on January 25, 1998, of the Public Broadcasting Service documentary,
"Porgy and Bess: An American Voice," the project director of which is
Professor James Standifer of the School of Music. She also announced the
upcoming conference on campus entitled "Managing Integrity in Research," as
well as the upcoming exhibit of early works of Claude Monet at the Museum of
Art, "Monet at V6theiul: The Turning Point."
Voluntary Support. The Report on Voluntary Support for December
1997 was submitted.
Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois
for research in the Medical School...................................$ 15,000
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for the Abbott Laboratories Minority Merit Scholarship in the
College of Pharmacy, for chemistry support in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts for scholarships and other
support in the Schools of Medicine, Nursing, and Public Health, and
for employee matching  gifts............................................  25,950
Aeroquip Foundation, Jackson
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute.... 6,000
Air Products & Chemicals, Inc., Allentown, Pennsylvania
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering.............. 7,000


200




January Meeting, 1998


Frederic W. Albaugh, Richland, Washington
750 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Dr. Frederic W. Albaugh Donor Pooled Income Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Department of Chemistry, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................  48,995
Keith E. Alessi, Lexington, Virginia
16,000 shares of Jackson Hewitt Inc., common stock
for the Keith E. and Valerie J. Alessi Fund in the School of
Business  Administration............................................ 1,077,500
Jay Alix and Associates, Southfield
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................... 6,329
Herbert D. Allee, Jr., Bettendorf, Iowa
100 shares of AT&T Corporation common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,509
Richard R. Allen, Greensboro, North Carolina
400 shares of Ladd Furniture, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration and the
Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 6,300
American Express Corporate, Phoenix, Arizona
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 7,000
American Suicide Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................... 12,027
American Trucking Associations, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the
Transportation  Research  Institute......................................  15,000
Ameritech, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center in the College of Engineering.... 50,000
Aaron D. Amster, Los Angeles, California
450 shares of Columbia HCA Corporation common stock
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Research Fund in the
Medical School, and for support in the School of Business
Administration and the Colleges of Engineering and Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  12,909
Pauline V. Anderson, Cupertino, California
4,027 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the College of Engineering............................... 257,998
Anonymous Donor
for endowment support in the Law School............................... 15,000
Anonymous Donor
60,617 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Thomas G. Long Professorship and the Thomas G.
and Mabel Long Professorship in the Law School....................... 4,933,887
Anonymous Donor
233 shares of Johnson Controls, Inc., common stock
for the Child Life Gift Fund in the University Hospitals.................... 10,864
Anonymous Donor
10,609 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Dissertation Research Award Endowment in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 305,419
Bernard and Audrey Aronson Charitable Trust
for the  University  Library.............................................  5,000
Charles W. Attwood Foundation, Canton
for scholarships in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning,
in  memory of Charles W. Attwood.......................................  8,000
Baldwin Foundation, Grand Rapids
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning,
for the Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center in the College of Engineering
and for the Baldwin Fellowship in Astronomy and the Undergraduate
Research Opportunities Program in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts...............37,500
Harold S. Barron, Blue Bell, Pennsylvania
900 shares of Provident Financial Holdings common stock and
400 shares of ML Bancorp, Inc., common stock
for the Harold S. Barron Scholarship in. the Law School.................... 29,466
Luella C. Bassett, Royal Oak
for the Cary-Bassett Endowed Scholarship................................ 5,000
William H. Bates, Kansas City, Missouri
200 shares of Nations Bank common stock
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School....................... 12,069


201




January Meeting, 1998


Jacqueline M. Beach, Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society.......................................  5,000
Jacob J. Bedenik, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for support in the College of Engineering................................. 5,000
James A. Bellamy, Ann Arbor
for Near Eastern Studies Program in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..................................................  5,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship....................... 41,500
Gordon A. Berenson, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 6,000
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Bergstrom Fellowship in Child Advocacy Law in the Law School...... 40,000
Terry J. Bergstrom, Ann Arbor
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School........................... 5,000
Nancy D. Berkowitz, New York, New York
for History of Art support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 10,000
Madeleine H. And MandellL. Berman Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Administration, and for support in the School of Social Work........ 9,500
Bixby Foundation, Dearborn
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for support in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts..........................................................  7,500
Herbert M. Blair III, Spring Lake
for the William B. Taylor Endowment in the Medical School................. 5,000
Lawrence B. Boensch, Oxford
200 shares of Amgen, Inc., common stock
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  10,350
Peter F. Borish, New York, New York
for the Edward M. and Ruth B. Gramlich Fund, School of Public Policy...... 15,000
Walter W. Borland, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
BP Exploration & Oil, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Office of Career Development, School of Business Administration...... 5,000
Conrad A. Bradshaw, Grand Rapids
610 shares of Primark Corporation common stock
for support of the Law  School..........................................  24,800
Hubert J. Brandt, Long Beach, New York
for the Frances and Hubert Brandt Israel Fellowship in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................  10,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Bristol-Myers Vascular Medicine Education Fund in the
Medical School, and for the Comprehensive Cancer Center................. 75,000
Florence L. Brownfain, Bloomfield Hills
1,000 shares of Mutual Savings Bank common stock
for the John J. Brownfain Scholarship, University of Michigan-Dearborn..... 13,250
Floydene B. Brownlee Trust
for support at the University of Michigan...............................  160,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Morrisville, North Carolina
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  20,000
Jean W. Campbell, Ann Arbor
2,316 shares of TPB Bancorp common stock
for the Jean W. Campbell Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund,
for the ultimate benefit of the Jean Campbell Research Fund in
the Center for the Education of Women and the Angus Campbell
Scholarship in the Institute for Social Research........................... 62,532
Jean W. Campbell Trust
for the Jean Campbell Research Fund in the Center for the
Education  of W om en...................................................  5,000
CaP Cure, Santa Monica, California
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center..................................  150,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research.......... 50,000
Mrs. Cary B. Cassa, Madison, New Jersey
for Armenian Studies support in the College of Arts, Sciences and
Letters, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............................ 10,000


202




January Meeting, 1998


David G. Chardavoyne, Detroit
for the Jerry Hanlon Endowed Football Lineman Scholarship and
the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics............. 7,000
Kathleen G. Charla Associates, Troy
for the University  Musical Society......................................  15,000
Chevron Research Company, Richmond, California
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute....................................................  10,000
Chiron Corporation, Emeryville, California
for support in  the Medical School........................................  5,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for the Associates Program and other support in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  23,000
Carl Cohen, Ann Arbor
for the RC Endowment and other support in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  10,600
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for student aid in the School of Business Administration, and
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 12,400
Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School....................................... 5,000
Bruce L. Cook, Owosso
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............ 15,000
Ella May Cook Trust
for the Joseph H. And Ella Mae Gardner Cook Endowment in the
School of Education.................................................. 240,182
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Frederick G. L. Huetwell Visitor Center........................... 25,000
Cooper Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............. 11,000
Clan Crawford, Jr., Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Music, and for the Museum of Art............... 6,100
Ronnie M. Cresswell, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the College of Pharmacy and for the University
Musical Society...................................................... 11,000
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.......... 5,000
William F. D'Angelo, Cape Elizabeth, Maine
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School..... 5,000
Mary L. Danly, Burr Ridge, Illinois
for the Robert Lyons Danly Memorial Lecture Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................  5,000
Mike Daugherty, Lexington, Kentucky
185 shares of HealthSouth Corporation common stock
for the Frederick A. Coller Research Fellowship in the Medical School......... 5,012
Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............ 5,000
Deloitte & Touche Consulting Group, Hermitage, Tennessee
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............. 10,800
Deloitte & Touche Foundation, Hermitage, Tennessee
for employee  matching  gifts............................................  21,005
Roger E. DeMerritt, Reedsburg, Wisconsin
159 shares of Fidelity Magellan Fund mutual fund for support in
the College of Engineering, and for the Comprehensive Cancer Center....... 15,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for employee matching  gifts............................................  16,171
Dixon and Carol Doll Trust
675 shares of Bay Networks, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 19,322
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for support in the College of Engineering and for the Dow Chemical
Company-Britton Fellowship in Chemistry, College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  28,150
James S. Duesenberry, Belmont, Massachusetts
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 38,000


203




January Meeting, 1998


E. and L. Transport Company, L.L.C., Wayne
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, University of Michigan-Dearborn..... 5,000
Electronic Data Systems, Piano, Texas
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering.......... 23,241
Robert S. Ellis, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
300 shares of Smithfield Foods, Inc., common stock
for support in  the  Medical School........................................  9,769
Thomas andElaine Evans Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Music, the Museum of Art and the
University Hospitals and for the University Musical Society................. 5,000
James P. Feeney, Birmingham
1,630 shares of Talley Industries, Inc., common stock
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  19,102
E. Malcolm Field, Saginaw
for the E. Malcolm Field Research Fellowship in the Medical School......... 50,000
Alice S. Filie, Santa Barbara, California
for undergraduate  student aid..........................................  20,000
Stephen M. Fisher, Saginaw
100 shares of State Street Corporation common stock and
80 shares of Cisco Systems, Inc., common stock
for the Foley and Lardner Fund in the Law School........................ 12,666
Morgan L. Fitch, Western Springs, Illinois
115 shares of MCI Communications common stock and a cash gift
for  support of the  Law   School...........................................  5,117
Floyd LeadUnitrust Fund
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund, and
for the University Musical Society.......................................  6,400
Edsel B. Ford II, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse,
the University  of Michigan-Dearborn.....................................  5,000
Henry Ford II Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse,
the University  of Michigan-Dearborn.................................... 20,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for instructional support in the College of Engineering,
for the Save-A-Heart Campaign Fund in the Medical School and
for the Fine Arts Associates Fund and other support at the
University  of Michigan-Dearborn.......................................  23,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the School of Business Administration,
for the Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center in the College of Engineering,
for physics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane and the Center for Engineering
Education and Practice at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........... 1,100,000
Forest Health Services Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 40,000
Foundation for Modern Greek Studies, Dearborn
for the Classical Studies Department Modern Greek Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 10,000
Foundation of Social Development for Senior Citizens, Tokyo, Japan
for the Tanabe Gift Fund in the Medical School.......................... 149,995
Stanley D. Frankel, Troy
for the Stanley D. Frankel Entrepreneurship Fund in the
School of Business Administration......................................  30,500
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Frankel Fellowships in Jewish Communal Service in the
School of Social Work................................................   10,000
Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Osaka, Japan
for research  in the College of Pharmacy.................................. 20,000
Sarah S. Garrison, Bloomfield Hills
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship and the Robert G. Forman
Alumni Fund for Undergraduate Education.............................. 10,000
Wood M. Geist, Washington
for support in the Schools of Art & Design and Education
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and for WUOM/WVGR.............................. 7,200
Charles Gelman, Ann Arbor
4,834 shares of Pall Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Public Health...............................  102,420


204




January Meeting, 1998


Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California
for research in the Medical School...................................... 10,000
General Motors Acceptance Corporation, Detroit
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................... 5,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for the Save-A-Heart Campaign Fund in the Medical School, and
for the National Pollution Prevention Center in the School of Natural
Resources and Environment...........................................  30,000
Carl E. Gingles Trust
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund.............................  5,000
Glaxo Wellcome, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School....................................... 6,000
Martin R. Goldman, Southfield
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  10,000
Robert T. Goldman, West Bloomfield
for support in the Medical School........................................ 5,000
Grant K. Goodman, Lawrence, Kansas
145 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Grant K. Goodman Fund in the Center for Japanese Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 10,694
Barry H. Gross, Ann Arbor
for the William Martel Professorship in Radiology in the Medical School....... 5,000
Suzanne S. Gruhl, Marblehead, Massachusetts
98 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock
for the John J. Swiderski Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts.........................................................  10,168
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for electrical and computer engineering fellowships in the College of
Engineering, and for employee matching gifts............................ 17,630
David L. Haron, Farmington Hills
925 shares of Arbor Drug, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Pamela and David Haron Endowed Scholarship and other support
in the Law School, and for the Martin Luther King Scholarship............. 25,822
Roger B. Harris, Chicago, Illinois
for support of the Law School...........................................  5,000
David G. Hartman, New Providence, New Jersey
1,000 shares of Chubb Corporation common stock
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  77,563
Raymond C. Hauser Estate
for the Raymond C. Hauser Research Fund in the College of Engineering.... 112,507
James C. Hays, Atlanta, Georgia
for the James C. Hays, MD, Scholarship in the Medical School.............. 20,000
James and Lynelle Holden Fund, Troy
for the John L. Kemink Professorship in Neurotology in the Medical School... 50,000
Jean Marie Holland, Birmingham
for the James C. Hays, MD, Scholarship in the Medical School............... 5,000
John H. Hollowell, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Pharmacy.................................. 10,000
Hollywood Greyhound Track, Hollywood Florida
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Fund in the Medical School...... 25,000
Integrated Therapeutics, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School............................       14,400
Marjorie M. Jackson Revocable Trust
for the Entrepreneurial Initiatives in Nursing Systems Fund in the
School of Nursing................................. 10,000
Mark M. Jaffe, Essexvile
99 shares of First of America Bancorp common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 7,512
William R. Jentes, Chicago, Illinois
656 shares of CUC International, Inc., common stock
for the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in the Law School................... 20,316
Jewish Communal Fund, New York, New York
for student aid in the School of Business Administration................... 10,000
Jobbers Warehouse Service, Inc., Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 8,000


205




January Meeting, 1998


Kiehner Johnson, Columbus, Ohio
100 shares of Philip Morris Companies, Inc. common stock and a cash gift
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School........................ 5,341
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School.....................       75,000
Johnson & Johnson Products, Inc., New Brunswick, New Jersey
for pharmacology support in the Medical School........................... 15,000
Johnson Controls, Inc., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute.....................................................  7,500
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine, Public Health and Social Work...... 717,785
Robert T. Joseph, Northbrook, Illinois
170 shares of Merrill Lynch Basic Value mutual fund for support of
the Law School........................................................ 6,426
John Justema, Jr., Hinsdale, Illinois
9,000 shares of Walgreen Company common stock
for the Justema Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Elmer J. Justema, Jr., Scholarship
in  the Department of Athletics........................................  285,188
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School....................................... 9,399
Jim Kamman, Laguna Hills, California
for wrestling support in the Department of Athletics....................... 5,000
Harvey E. Kapnick, Jr., Wilmette, Illinois
3,400 shares of Intel Corporation and 70 shares of IBM common stock
for the Harvey Kapnick Accounting Workshop Series Fund, and
the Arthur Andersen Fund for thePaton Accounting Center in the
School of Business Administration.....................................  511,188
David Keil, Hinsdale, Illinois
145 shares of Cognizant Corporation common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 6,375
Gloria B. Kepka Estate
for the Judge Fredrick A. Kepka Loan Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................... 10,000
Kirkland & Ellis Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in the Law School, and
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 152,500
Arthur C. Kittleson, San Jose, California
for the Arthur C. and Lois Dittmar Kittleson Endowment in the
M edical  School.......................................................  50,000
Knight Foundation, Miami, Florida
for endowment support in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate  Studies......................................................  8,109
Koepfgen Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center....................................  7,000
W. Henry Koivunen, Livonia
for the Lindenauer Vascular Research and Education Award Fund
in the Medical School.................................................. 5,000
Steven M. Korotkin, Birmingham
for support in the Department of Athletics................................ 5,000
Judith C. Leondar, Kingston, New Jersey
170 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock
for the Dr. Ralph E. Bennett Endowment Funds in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  10,875
Jerry W. Levin, New York, New York
for the Jerry W. and Carol L. Levin Endowment in the College
of Engineering.......................................................  63,583
Norman Levy Associates, Inc. Southfield
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................... 5,660
Lotspeich Company, Inc., Miami, Florida
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 6,000
Lubin Schwartz and Goldman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................  5,000
Joe Lunghamer Chevrolet, Inc., Pontiac
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.... 10,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 200,000


206




January Meeting, 1998


Benard L. Maas Foundation, Farmington Hills
for the Maas Foundation Tauber Manufacturing Institute
Scholarship in the College of Engineering, for the Herbert S.
and Carol L. Amster Research Fund in the Medical School and
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund................................ 13,750
Jessie C. MacBain Estate
for the Stuart and Jane Sheill Scholarship in the School of Music............ 56,773
Donald H. Malloure, Beverly Hills
2,000 shares of International Business Machines common stock
for the Donald and Lucille Malloure Funds in the College of Engineering.... 206,375
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Taylor
for the Manoogian Professorship in Modern Armenian History
and the Marie Manoogian Professorship in Armenian Language and
Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................... 150,000
Oliver F. Manzini, Laurium
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,000
Ray Martilla, Portage
181 shares of Emerson Electric common stock
for support in the School of Education...................................  10,040
Loretta Matthews Memorial Fund, Riverview
for the Breast Cancer and the Prostate Cancer Research, Education
and Patient Care Funds in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.............. 17,000
John F. McCarthy, Rocky River, Ohio
4,000 shares of Modine Manufacturing Company common stock and a cash gift
for support in the School of Education, and for the John F. McCarthy
Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
Department of Athletics and the School of Business Administration......... 133,725
Janet M. McClintock, Northville
for support in the Schools of Art & Design and Business Administration....... 5,055
William L. McKinley Charitable Remainder Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.................... 295,632
Meijer, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Fred Meijer Fellowship in Creative Writing, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.................................................  50,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for the Marshall Symposium  Fund......................................  15,000
Mental Illness Research Association, Auburn Hills
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  15,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for student aid in the School of Business Administration................... 15,000
Joseph K. Messerly, Jackson
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Mette Foundation, Southfield
for the Mette Foundation Scholarship in the School of Dentistry, and
for the Norman Mette Scholarship in the Medical School.................. 165,000
David L. Miller, Grand Blanc
for support in the School of Dentistry....................................  6,000
Mobil Administrative Services Company, Dallas, Texas
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the
School of Business Administration......................................  15,000
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Monroe-Brown Undergraduate Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration, for the Robert H. Lurie
Engineering Center in the College of Engineering, for the
Monroe-Brown Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts and for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund................ 120,000
Morris & McVeigh LLP, New York, New York
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 12,000
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
300 shares of U.S. Bancorp common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics............................... 34,491
R. Stan Mortenson, McLean, Virginia
143 shares of Starwood Lodging Trust common stock
for support of the Law  School...........................................  7,588
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
for W U OM /W VGR.....................................................  5,000
Motorola, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice at the
University  of Michigan-Dearborn........................................  5,000
207




January Meeting, 1998


Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Minority Engineering Program and electrical and computer
science engineering support in the College of Engineering.................. 12,000
National Kidney Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  6,400
Jeff Nearhoof, Cleveland, Ohio
138 shares of Banc One Corporation common stock
for support in the College of Pharmacy................................... 7,409
Newman Family Foundation, Troy
for the Isadore Lampe Professorship and the Newman Family
Foundation Scholarship in the Medical School............................ 40,000
Ray E. Newton, Jr., Winnetka, Illinois
1,000 shares of Concord EFS, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 23,875
Charles F. Niemeth, New York, New York
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  14,500
L. S. Norman, Homosassa, Florida
200 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock
for the William A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration, and for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education
Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... 13,069
Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School....................................... 9,000
Donald A. Odell, Arkville, New York
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School........................ 5,000
Martin C. Oetting, Detroit
200 shares of DPL Inc., common stock
for the Martin C. Oetting Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School.................. 5,669
Jack Olender, Washington, DC
310 shares of Catellus Development common stock
for gifts pending  designation............................................  5,696
Ronald L. Olson, Los Angeles, California
487 shares of Merck & Company common stock
for the Ronald L. and Jane Olson Fund in the Law School...........    51,379
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Rosemont, Illinois
for research in the Medical School...................................... 20,684
Owner Operator Services, Inc., Grain Valley, Missouri
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation
Research Institute.......                                              5,000
Louis and Helen Padnos Foundation, Holland
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,000
Marion E. Paine Estate
for the Willmarth R. and Marion E. Paine Scholarship in the School
of  D entistry........................................................  317,671
Martha Hecht Pascal, Evanston, Illinois
for the Martha and Roger Pascal Endowment in the College of Literature,
Science  and  the  Arts..................................................  5,000
Beatrice Paul, Bloomfield Hills
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School
of Business Administration............................................  10,000
Patricia D. Pawelski, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Merck & Company common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................... 10,566
Roslyn Braeman Payne, San Francisco, California
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000
Pearl Meyer & Partners, Inc., New York, New York
for the Edward M. and Ruth B. Gramlich Fund in the School of Public Policy.. 5,000
Bernhardt L. Pederson, Bay City
60 shares of Chevron Corporation common stock and
50 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the College of Engineering, and
for the Norman F. Miller Professorship in the Medical School................ 8,555
Louis Perlmutter, New York, New York
for the Allan F. Smith Scholarship in the Law School....................... 5,000
Norman G. Peslar, Warren
for support of the Law  School..........................................  20,000


208




January Meeting, 1998


Pharmacia and Upjohn, Inc., Kalamazoo
for Pharmacia and Upjohn Fellowships in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for the Comprehensive Cancer Center............ 60,000
Darrell A. Phillippi, Jacksonville, Florida
1,757 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Darrell A. Phillippi Donor Pooled Income Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the University Library......................... 48,369
Ronald L. Piasecki, Spring Lake
1,000 shares of Gentex Corporation common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 25,375
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Edward M. and Ruth B. Gramlich Fund in the School of
Public Policy, for the Margin of Difference Fund in the Center
for the Education of Women and for the D'Arms Awards in the
Humanities, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............... 40,500
Mervin Pregulman, Chattanooga, Tennessee
3,450 shares of Norfolk Southern corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Mervin and Helen Pregulman Scholarship in the School of
Social Work, and for the William Davidson Professorship of Business
in the School of Business Administration...............................  108,535
Price Waterhouse LLP, Chicago, Illinois
for the Price Waterhouse Scholarship in Accounting in the
School of Business Administration......................................  10,000
Donald W. Pride Trust
for support in the College of Engineering................................  20,000
Benjamin M. Quigg, Jr., Jenkintown, Pennsylvania
2,600 shares of Pepsico and 372 shares of Tricon Global common stock
for the Benjamin and Patricia Quigg Charitable Remainder Unitrust
Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Benjamin and Patricia Quigg
Endowed Scholarship in the Law School................................ 101,057
Radiological Society of North America R & E, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  9,166
Steven Radom, Bloomfield Hills
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center...................................  10,000
Louis G. Redstone Detroit
400 shares of Herman Miller, Inc., common stock
for the Louis G. Redstone Art Fund in the School of Art & Design, and
for the Louis G. Redstone Scholarship in the College of Architecture
and Urban Planning.................................................. 19,825
Betty B. Remington, Iowa City, Iowa
4,055 shares of Fidelity Low-Priced Stock Fund mutual fund
for the Betty B. Remington Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the School of Public Health.................... 100,000
John 0. Robertson, Melbourne, Florida
for the John 0. Robertson Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Ruth Lobdell Endowed Scholarship........... 20,044
Douglas F. Roby, Jr., Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts...........................................................  5,000
Marquerite Roll Estate
for the Lyle C. Roll Fund in the Medical School............................ 7,079
Ronald W. Rosenberg, Birmingham
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Prudence L. Rosenthal, Ann Arbor
50 shares of Merck & Company common stock
for the University  Musical Society.......................................  5,334
Peter J. Rosewig, Ann Arbor
for the Peter J. and Theta M. Rosewig Women's Athletic
Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............................... 50,000
Dennis E. Ross, Bloomfield Hills
75 shares of Association First Capital Corporation common stock
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,149
Lois R. Ross, Naples, Florida
for the Coleman and Lois Ross Scholarship and the FWT Learning
Resources Gift Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint................... 50,000
Louise Rotenberg Trust
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the
U niversity  Library.....................................................  9,000


209




January Meeting, 1998


Judith Dow Rumelhart, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Dow Chemical common stock
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund................................ 10,195
Muriel Rumsey Foundation, North Palm Beach, Florida
for student aid in  the Medical School....................................  6,000
Alma Ruppenthal, Grosse Pointe
for the Henry Ruppenthal Family Professorship in the Medical School....... 40,000
Rena Ruppenthal, Grosse Pointe
for the Henry Ruppenthal Family Professorship in the Medical School....... 20,000
Karlene L. Sabin, Tallahassee, Florida
120 shares of Fidelity Magellan Fund mutual fund for support in the
School of Nursing..............................................      11,111
Theodore Sachs, West Bloomfield
250 shares of Traveler's Group, Inc., and 81 shares of General
Electric Company common stock
for endowment support in the Law School............................... 19,969
Saul S. Saulson, Franklin
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the
School of Business Administration...................................... 10,000
Millie Schembechler Memorial Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School.......... 200,000
Katherine Collier Schotten, Ann Arbor
for the String Department in the School of Music.......................... 5,500
Peter W. Schweitzer, Scarsdale, New York
for the Susan and Peter W. Schweitzer Scholarship in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 25,000
Seagate, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
for support in the College of Engineering.................................  9,000
Dennis G. Severance, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,004
Rajaopal Shantaram, Grand Blanc
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint........................... 10,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for chemical engineering support, the Sea Grant/Industry Consortium
Fund and other support in the College of Engineering..................... 20,500
James M. Sheridan, North Muskegon
140 shares of Huntington Bancshares common stock
for gifts pending  designation............................................  5,058
Bruce H. Simpson, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, University of Michigan-Dearborn..... 5,000
Sky Meadow Fund, New York, New York
for the History of Art Department in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..................................................  5,000
Philip L. Smith, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
120 shares of Chase Manhattan Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 12,926
Judy W. Soley, Scarsdale, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
William E. Steen, Belvedere Tiburon, California
280 shares of Wal-Mart common stock
for the Steen  Acquisitions Fund........................................  11,288
John P. Stefan Estate
for the Lather Stefan  Scholarship......................................  835,661
Robert W. Storer, Ann Arbor
150 shares of Wells Fargo & Company common stock
for the Robert W. Storer Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts.........................................................  50,358
Doris W. Sulfaro, Fenton
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,000
Miriam F. Tabor, Louisville, Kentucky
755 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Amson C. and Miriam F. Tabor Scholarship in the School of Music.... 14,108
Donald R. Tatum, Jr., Bloomfield Hills
100 shares of Ciena Corporation common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,400
FBO TenBroeck Irrevocable Trust
for the Jane and Howard M. TenBroeck Scholarship in the College
of  Engineering........................................................  8,800


210




January Meeting, 1998


Robert E. Terkhorn, Aurora, Colorado
50 shares of Citicorp common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 6,369
W. Bruce Thomas, Sewickley, Pennsylvania
189 shares of Chase Manhattan Corporation common stock
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School....................... 19,745
Charles V. Thornton III, San Francisco, California
480 shares of Signature Resorts common stock
for support of the Law  School..........................................  10,650
Raymond Tierney, Milford, Connecticut
114 shares of Southern New England Telephone common stock and
60 shares of Chevron Corporation common stock
for the University Library............................................. 10,287
Richard F. Towner, Venice, Florida
515 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock
for the Richard F. Towner Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering, and
for the University Library............................................. 39,767
Charles J. Trick, Livonia
for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan.................. 5,000
TRW Automotive Worldwide Sector, Cleveland, Ohio
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.................... 5,000
Robert J. Ulmer, Arcadia, California
13,956 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock
for the Ulmer Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Ulmer Endowed Fund in the
Department of Athletics, and the Robert J. Ulmer Endowed
Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 1,000,035
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for support in the College of Engineering, and for the Tauber
Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration
and the College of Engineering.........................................  50,000
Univers Foundation, Tokyo, Japan
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  29,100
George F. Valassis Charitable Lead Trust
for the Urologic Oncology Research Fund and George F. And
Nancy P. Valassis Professorship in the Medical School.................... 250,000
Marie Vance, Redford
for the Don K. Vance Graduate Merit Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration......................................  30,000
Dick F. Van Dyne, Kearney, Missouri
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center in memory of Catherine Van Dyne...... 5,000
David L. VerLee, Holland
480 shares of Republic Bancorp common stock
for the David L. and Jayne M. VerLee Endowment for Vision Research
in  the  M edical School.................................................  9,540
V.F.W. Ladies Auxiliary Michigan Department, Lansing
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint........................... 20,000
Carl H. von Ende, Bloomfield Hills
60 shares of Comerica, Inc., common stock
for support of the  Law   School...........................................  5,113
Harvey A. Wagner, Grosse Pointe Park, Illinois
for the Eleanor M. Wagner Scholarship in the School of Education, and
for the Harvey A. Wagner Fellowship in the College of Engineering.......... 10,000
A. Marriott Walker, Birmingham
166 shares of Duke Energy Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the A. Marriott Walker Donor Pooled Income Fund and the
Class of 1936 Engineer's Fund in the College of Engineering................. 9,245
Gary T. Walther, Chicago Illinois
100 shares of Banc One Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,500
John D. Warner, Seattle, Washington
100 shares of Boeing Company common stock
for the John D. Warner Endowed Scholarship in the College of Engineering.... 5,097
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  40,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee matching  gifts.............................................  5,416


211




January Meeting, 1998


Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the National Pollution Prevention Center in the School of
Natural Resources and Environment..................................... 5,000
Marshall Weinberg Philanthropic Fund New York, New York
for the Marshall M. Weinberg Endowment for Philosophy in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 30,000
James H. Wells, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
150 shares of General Electric Company common stock and a cash gift
for support in the Medical School, the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 11,184
Anthony J. Werderitsch, Saline
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,000
Kenneth Whipple, Bloomfield Hills
215 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center...................................  10,300
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000
Whitaker Foundation Arlington, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering............................... 571,925
Robert J. White, Los Angeles California
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,000
Timothy White, Loudonville, New York
220 shares of Quantum Corporation common stock
for the Glaucoma Research and Development Fund in the Medical School...... 5,555
Brymer Williams, Ann Arbor
1,268 shares of Darden Restaurants, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for gifts pending designation and for the Robert C. Hughes Student
Leadership  Fund...................................................  14,999
Kurt J. Wolff, New York, New York
for support of the Law  School..........................................  10,000
Frank B. Womer, Ann Arbor
for the Frank B. Womer Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the School of Education....................... 101,835
David P. Wood, Birmingham
100 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock,
100 shares of General Motors Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  11,200
Woodworth-Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center...................................  10,000
Wyeth Ayerst American Home Products Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Resident's Education Program Fund in the Medical School........... 10,500
Samuel E. Wyly, Dallas Texas
for Sam Wyly Hall in the School of Business Administration.............. 1,000,000
Yaffe & Company, Southfield
for the Yaffe Collaborative Advertising Workshop Fund in the School of
Art and  Design.......................................................  50,000
K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Scholarship in the Law School........................... 50,000
Paul A. Yhouse, Ann Arbor
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Research Fund in the
Medical School, and for the University Musical Society..................... 21,730
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Alfred Berkowitz, Birmingham
15 Baccarat crystal vases and two books for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Berkowitz Gallery
Nancy M. Bozeman, Ann Arbor
a brass and glass coffee table for the School of Public Health
Helen M. Graves, Ann Arbor
video and audio cassettes and various publications for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn Mardigian Library
Gerald T. Lehr, Clinton Township
a Gateway 2000 personal computer for the Medical School
Irving Levitt Palm Beach, Florida
a color lithograph entitled, "Fishing on the Au Sable" by Ogden Pleissner, for the
University of Michigan-Dearborn Berkowitz Gallery


212




January Meeting, 1998


Lucent Technologies, Murray Hill, New Jersey
liquid crystal display manufacturing facilities and equipment, with associated technical
information, and a CD-rom for the College of Engineering
Milan Marich, Jr., Ann Arbor
693 hardcover social studies books and 388 journals and magazines for the School of
Education
Frank H. Mason, Jackson
manuscripts for the Clements Library
Ormco, Glendora, California
supplies and dental materials for the School of Dentistry Graduate Orthodontic Clinic
Peerless Mattress & Furniture Company, Flint
a buffet, a table and 10 chairs for the University of Michigan-Flint
Walter M. and Janeth Ream, Ann Arbor
manuscripts for the Clements Library
Flo Reynolds, Shelburne Falls, Massachusetts
manuscripts for the Clements Library
Mrs. Lovell Wood Royston, Cincinnati, Ohio
a manuscript and an early 20th century deck of cards for the Clements Library
David G. Shappirio, Ann Arbor
4,544 insect specimens for the Museum of Zoology
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
18 binders of items illustrating South and Southeast Asian sculpture and metalwork for
the Department of History of Art
Paul L. Stewart, Ann Arbor
46 printing plates for the School of Art and Design
Sun Microsystems, Inc., Palo Alto, California
various equipment for the College of Engineering
Unitek, Monrovia, California
supplies and dental materials for the School of Dentistry Graduate Orthodontic Clinic
Donald and Carol Wiiken, Oak Park, Illinois
87 Perthshire glass paperweights with stands and a Perthshire catalog for the
University of Michigan-Dearborn Berkowitz Gallery
Xilinx University Program, San Jose, California
software for the University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Engineering
Howard Young, Livonia
418 books and magazines for the Department of Mathematics
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Kristin Adams, Fenton                 Kristine A. Mulhorn, Clarkston
Bushra Azad, Ann Arbor                Ms. Els Nieuwenhuijsen, Ann Arbor
Janette J. Azary, Ann Arbor           Eaton Rapids Optometry, Eaton Rapids
Alice Benson, Ann Arbor               Banjamin J. Platt, Kalamazoo
Lee Burkhardt, Pinckney               Shawn Powaga, Grass Lake
Arvon Byle, Kalamazoo                 Nallapu N. Reddy, Grand Blanc
Carol A. Chaney, Burton               James H. Robertson, Ann Arbor
Robert Danly Estate                   Sinisa Rodin, Zagreb, Croatia
Barbara Donlan, Montrose              Suzanne M. Selig, Flint
Marcia Engeltjes, St. Paul Minnesota  Robert L. Simpson, West Bloomfield
Philip H. Jones, Shelton, Connecticut  Vogt's Flowers, Inc., Flint
Linda D. Knecht, Grand Blanc          Jian Wang, Ann Arbor
Kip Kriigel, Rochester Hills          Kenneth B. West, Flint
Frank Livingstone, Ann Arbor          David L. Wigston, Davison
Rhonda F. Loose, Ypsilanti            Window Magic, Inc., Flint
Jerry Morton, East Lansing
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted a number of personnel
actions, noting especially the proposed appointment of Douglas S. Kelbaugh
as dean of the College of Architecture and Urban Planning, the proposed
extension of the appointment of Colin L. Day as director of the University of
Michigan Press, and the proposed appointment of Frederick C. Neidhardt as
vice president for research.


213




January Meeting, 1998


Regent McGowan called attention to the reappointment of Dorothy K.
Russell as vice chancellor for administration at the University of Michigan- Flint.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Dries, David J., M.D., Professor of Surgery, January 16, 1998
Kelbaugh, Douglas S., Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, and Dean, College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, five year term, July 1, 1998
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Day, Colin L., reappointed Director, University of Michigan Press, four year term, January 1, 1998
Harris, A. Melissa, reappointed Interim Associate Dean for Administration, College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, seven month term, January 1, 1998
Price, Vincent E., reappointed Chair, Department of Communication Studies, three year term
Russell, Dorothy K., reappointed Vice Chancellor for Administration, University of
Michigan-Flint, three year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1998
Smith, Gerald R., Professor of Zoology, with tenure, and Professor of Geology and
Mineralogy, with tenure, also appointed Director, Museum of Zoology, three year term
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Glick, Rachel L., Associate Dean for Student Programs, Medical School
Hannis, Mark A., Assistant Dean, Medical School, February 1, 1998
Harrison, Walter L., from Vice President for University Relations to Vice President for
University Relations and Secretary of the University
Neidhardt, Frederick C., from Interim Vice President for Research to Vice President for Research
Committee appointments. The following committee appointments
were submitted:
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Barnard, Ruth M., January 1-July 31, 1998, vice Donna L. Algase on sabbatical leave
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
Each appointment effective for the two month period December 1, 1997-January 31, 1998
for the purpose of tenure and promotion deliberations
Rosenthal, Marilyn M., vice Dan J. Swift
Schaum, Melita C., vice Paul M. Hughes
Schneider, Michael J., vice John F. Devlin
Twomey, Michael J., vice Patricia K. Smith


214




January Meeting, 1998


Personnel reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Baroni, Raphael, Licence, Lecturer II in French, September 1, 1997
Goodwin, Donna M., Lecturer I in Spanish, September 1, 1997
Kassner, Scott G., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Litzenburger, Liesel L., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Melanson, Scott J., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Petrini, Odette M., M.A., Lecturer II in English, July 1, 1997
Williamson, Thomas A., M.A., Lecturer II in Anthropology, Residential College
Medical School
Nasreddine, Wassim M., M.D., Lecturer in Neurology, November 21, 1997
Stolz, Anjanette M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, December 1, 1997
CANCELLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Hamze, Samara I., B.A., Lecturer II in Biology (previously reported effective July 1, 1997)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 1, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
Institute of Gerontology
Faulkner, John A., from Associate Director to Interim Director, November 1, 1997
Medical School
Fetters, Michael D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, November 1, 1997
Joynt, Lynn K., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology
Mosca, Lori J., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Simeone, Diane M., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Assistant Professor of Surgery
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Stollak, Mary A., Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed Chair,
Department of Music, UM-Flint, August 1, 1997-July 31, 1998
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective January 1-December 31, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Medical School
Castor, C. William, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, December 1, 1997 -November 30, 1998
Chethik, Morton, Clinical Associate Professor Emeritus of Child Psychoanalysis
Kostyo, Jack L., Professor Emeritus of Physiology


215




January Meeting, 1998


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1-May 31, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
School of Art and Design
Leonard, Joanne, Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, and Professor of
Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave
Stewart, Paul L., Catherine B. Heller Collegiate Professor of Art and Professor of Art, with
tenure, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 1998
School of Business Administration
Imhoff, Eugene A., Jr., Ernst and Young Professor of Accounting and Professor of
Accounting, with tenure, duty off campus
Lafontaine, Francine, Associate Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, School of
Business Administration, and Associate Professor of Economics, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1997 -May 31, 1998
Warther, Vincent A., Assistant Professor of Finance, contract leave, September 1, 1997 -May 31, 1998
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bergmann, Frithjof H., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, research leave
Campbell, Stephen J., William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of History of Art and Assistant
Professor of History of Art, duty off campus
Cooper, Frederick, Charles Gibson Collegiate Professor of History, Professor of History, with
tenure, and Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure, duty off campus
Coronil, Fernando, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Ege, Seyhan N., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1997
Farrand, William R., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, and Curator, Museum of
Anthropology, duty off campus, September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998
Lay, Howard G., Assistant Professor of History of Art, duty off campus
Levinson, Marjorie, Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor and Professor of English, with
tenure, duty off campus
Lorenzon, Wolfgang B., Assistant Professor of Physics, duty off campus
Singer, J. David, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, duty off campus
Thun, Rudolf P., Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Young, Ernest P., Richard Hudson Research Professor of History and Professor of History,
with tenure, duty off campus
Medical School
Mozurkewich, Ellen L., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
extended sick leave, September 10-October 12, 1997
UM-Dearborn College ofArts, Sciences, and Letters
Dahlke, Richard M., Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-April 30, 1998
Perlove, Shelley K., Professor of Art History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -April 30, 1998
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Miller, Murray H., Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure,
retirement furlough, January 1-August 31, 1998
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Perlman, Ellis B., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1997


216




January Meeting, 1998


CANCELLATION OF
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Education
Rowan, Brian P., Associate Dean and Professor of Education, with tenure
(previously reported on sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998)
CORRECTIONS TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Education
Daly, David A., Associate Professor of Education and Speech Pathology, with tenure, duty off
campus, January 1-May 31, 1998 (previously reported as sabbatical leave)
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Grew, Raymond, Professor of History, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1, 1997 -May 31, 1998 (previously reported as September 1-December 31, 1997)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Crane, Gerald E., Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, retired
Johnson, Scott E., Lecturer in Architecture and Urban Planning, term complete, April 30, 1997
School of Business Administration
Edwards, Jeffrrey, R., Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, with tenure, resigned, June 10, 1997
School of Education
Peterson, Duane E., Lecturer in Education, term complete, April 30, 1997
School of Information
Taylor, Margaret T., Lecturer in Information, retired
Law School
Jackson, John H., Hessel E. Yntema Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, retired
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Bergstrom, Theodore C., Professor of Economics, with tenure, resigned
Farley, Gail A., Lecturer II in Psychology, term complete, April 30, 1997
Sanje-Mpacko, Guilllaume D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, resigned
Springer, Tamar, Lecturer I in Psychology, term complete, April 30, 1997
Wright, John W., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, retired
Medical School
Gordon, David, Associate Professor of Pathology, without tenure, resigned, November 17, 1997
Shane, Steven A., Lecturer in Surgery and Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, resigned, January 1, 1998
Teo, Eu-Leong H. J., Lecturer in Radiology, term complete
School of Public Policy
Pike, Helen L., Lecturer in Expository Writing, term complete, April 30, 1997


217




January Meeting, 1998


UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Cohn, Thomas S., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retired, April 30, 1998
UM-Dearborn School of Education
Brown, Joan M., Lecturer in Education, resigned
Retirement Memoirs.     Provost Cantor submitted four retirement
memoirs.
Gerald E. Crane, professor of urban planning in the College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, retired from active faculty status on
December 31, 1997.
Born and raised in London, Professor Crane received a Graduate
Architect degree in 1950 from South West Essex Technical College, a
Certificate and Diploma in Town Planning and Civic Architecture in 1954
from University College, and a Master of Regional Planning Degree in 1955
from Cornell University. He held the position of senior lecturer from
1960-66 at Wayne State University and served in visiting capacities at
Cornell, Syracuse, Michigan State, University of London, University of
Illinois, and University of Florida before joining the University of Michigan
faculty in 1966 as adjunct professor of Planning. He was promoted to
professor in 1967 and served as chair of the Urban Planning Program from
1968-76.
Professor Crane has had an outstanding career as an educator teaching
graduate-level courses in urban design. His innovative teaching methods
have involved direct field work in the underdeveloped areas of Detroit. He is
a registered architect in Michigan and the United Kingdom, a registered
town planner in the United Kingdom, a registered professional community
planner in Michigan and a chartered town planner in the United Kingdom.
He has been an active member of the American Institute of Architects and of
many other professional organizations. His personal commitment to professional organizations serving the architecture and planning professions was
passionately communicated to his students who represented the future of these
professions.
In recognition of his leadership in the field of urban planning, Professor
Crane received the Charles A. Blessing Award from the Detroit Chapter of the
American Institute of Architects in 1992. Prior to becoming the chair of the
Urban Planning Program in 1968, he had been president of Crane & Gorwic, a
Detroit firm that planned many large projects in southeastern Michigan and the
Midwest. Among these were the Detroit Medical Center, the Elmwood Park
residential district east of downtown Detroit, and Professional Plaza on Woodward Avenue. He continued his consulting while a member of the faculty, and
this active involvement brought currency and vigor, as well as a healthy dose of
reality, to his pedagogy.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Gerald E. Crane professor emeritus of urban planning.
Richard M. Dougherty, professor of information in the School of
Information, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1997.
Professor Dougherty received his B.S. degree from Purdue University in
1959, and his M.L.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Rutgers University, in 1961 and
1963, respectively. He held positions at Rutgers University, the University
218




January Meeting, 1998


of North Carolina, the University of Colorado, Syracuse University, and the
University of California at Berkeley before joining the University of Michigan
faculty in 1978 as director of the University Library and professor of library
science. Professor Dougherty also served as acting dean of the School of
Library Science (now known as the School of Information) from 1984-85.
Professor Dougherty has been a compelling and forceful advocate of core
values in librarianship throughout his extensive professional career. As
president of the American Library Association from 1990-91, he helped bring
information access issues to the attention of the general public and mounted
a literacy and reading campaign for children. As academic library director at
the University of Michigan, he spearheaded initiatives which resulted in
computerized access to the library's catalogs. As an educator, Professor
Dougherty engaged his students in critical thinking and dialog concerning issues
of professional management, ethics, and values. As publisher of leading journals
in academic librarianship, he provided an important venue for discussion and
dissemination of library issues and developments. He is internationally
recognized for his vision and articulation of key challenges confronting academic
libraries and has been active as a speaker and consultant in national and
international venues.
Professor Dougherty has received numerous honors during his career.
Most recently he was honored with the Joseph Lippincott Award at the
American Library Association's annual meeting in July 1997. In 1988 he
was honored as the first recipient of the Hugh C. Atkinson Memorial Award
given by ALA. In addition to his extensive involvement with the ALA,
including service as president, Professor Dougherty has been highly involved
with numerous other professional groups. He has also received two honorary
degrees: from Purdue University in 1991 and from Stellenbosch University,
South Africa, in 1995.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Richard M. Dougherty professor emeritus of information.
John W. Wright, associate professor of English language and literature
in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts, retired from active faculty
status on December 31, 1997.
Professor Wright received his B.A. degree from Hobart College in 1955,
and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Rochester in 1961 and
1967, respectively. He came to the University of Michigan in 1963 as an
instructor, and was promoted to assistant professor in 1965 and associate
professor in 1970.
Professor Wright was a specialist in romanticism, with a special
emphasis on poetry and the visual arts. He published Shelley's Myth of
Metaphor in 1970. He has also published essays on Borges, Hawthorne, and
Johnson, as well as numerous essays and analyses of Blake's prints and
poetry. His lifelong passion has been the interrelationship between the
poetry and etchings of the late eighteenth-century, early nineteenth-century
visionary poet, William Blake; for the past 25 years, his research has focused
on Blake's printmaking techniques. Professor Wright's knowledge of Blake's
unique technical methods for printmaking is unsurpassed. He received an
American Council on Learned Societies fellowship in 1971-72 and a National
Endowment for the Humanities fellowship in 1976-77 to study etching,


219




January Meeting, 1998


printmaking and the graphic arts at the Slade School of Art, London. He
also received numerous Rackham Faculty Research Grants in aid of his work
on Blake. He was consultant for the King's College/Scholar Press facsimile
edition of Blake's 1826 Songs of Innocence and Experience. He served as
consultant to the composer William Bolcom for his song series, William
Blake's Songs (1986), and also curated two special exhibits of the works of
William Blake for the Hatcher Graduate Library.
In addition to teaching "Introduction to Poetry," the English department's
prerequisite for the major, and a variety of survey courses, Professor Wright
was best known for two much-loved upper-division courses. His course on Blake
has remained an important and popular fixture among the department's
offerings; he has passed on to generations of students his understanding and
passion for Blake's artistic vision. Equally important has been Professor
Wright's course, "Creative Writing and the Other Arts," in which he has
generously supported a wide variety of student creative projects. His tireless
advocacy on behalf of students has endeared him to many who have felt lost
in a large university.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
John W. Wright associate professor emeritus of English language and
literature.
Karl L. Zinn, research scientist in the Information Technology Division,
retired from active faculty status on October 6, 1997.
Dr. Zinn received his B.A. degree from Swarthmore College in 1959 and
his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1962 and
1964, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1963 as a
research associate in the Center for Research on Learning and Teaching
(CRLT) and lecturer in psychology. He was promoted to research scientist in
1969 and maintained that title until his retirement.  He joined the
Information Technology Division in 1995.
Dr. Zinn's first assignment in CRLT was to help faculty with problems
related to testing and evaluation and to investigate the possible role of
computers in teaching. He soon became one of the best informed individuals in
America in the area of computer-assisted instruction, establishing connections
with other research centers and setting up demonstration projects using
access to the experimental computer systems at IBM, Dartmouth and the
University of Illinois. During this time, he wrote a proposal to the State of
Michigan for collaborative work among major universities which resulted in
a planning grant for a state-wide network. He also wrote the proposal to the
National Science Foundation that led to the Merit computer network. Dr.
Zinn became the associate director of Merit and had a number of grants and
contracts to promote its use for instructional purposes. One of these projects
produced specifications for education programming languages which were
adopted widely in North America.
Among other accomplishments at the University of Michigan, Dr. Zinn has
introduced computer graphics; put the first interactive programming language
on MTS; programmed simulations and academic games for instruction; and set
up the first computer-based conferencing system on campus. More recently, he
introduced faculty and students to Gopher and the World Wide Web and has
continued consulting with faculty members in developing courses or new uses of
resources found on the Web. Within the Information Technology Division, he
220




January Meeting, 1998


has provided invaluable support in building relationships with the schools and
colleges and in creating technology-based partnerships with the deans.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Karl L. Zinn
research scientist emeritus.
Memorials. There were no memorials and no actions with respect to
degrees this month.
Degrees. There were no actions with regard to degrees.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded
by Regent Horning, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Alternative Asset Investments
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved commitment of up to $40 million of the Long
Term Portfolio to Brookdale Investors Three, L.P., as described in the Regents
Communication, with the understanding that the actual commitment will be
$25 million plus fees.
Real Estate Investment Trust Manager
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved John McStay Investment Counsel as investment
manager, as described in the Regents Communication.
Commitment of up to $20 million from Long Term Portfolio to
Thomas H. Lee Equity Fund IV, L.P.
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents of a follow-on
investment of up to $20 million that has been made to Thomas H. Lee
Equity Fund IV, L.P., as described in the Regents Communication.
Energy Common Stock Manager
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Deitch, the
Regents unanimously approved State Street Research Energy and Natural
Resources Hedge Fund, LLC, for an investment of up to $25 million, as
described in the Regents Communication.
Sale of Tax Exempt Commercial Paper to Finance University's
Projects
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously authorized an increase of up to $55.5 million in the
amount outstanding of the commercial paper supported by a pledge of
General Revenues.
Refunding of Hospital Revenue and Medical Service Plan Revenue
Bonds
Executive Vice President Kasdin pointed out that the projected savings to
be realized by refinancing the Hospital Revenue and Medical Service Plan
Revenue Bonds described in the Regents Communication should be considered


221




January Meeting, 1998


only as illustrative of the magnitude of savings being sought. The actual
savings will be dependent on the market conditions at the time of
refinancing.
Regent McFee moved that:
The Regents adopt the following resolution authorizing the executive
vice president and chief financial officer to issue Hospital Revenue or
Medical Service Plan Revenue Refunding Bonds to refinance all or a portion
of the Hospital 1986A, Hospital 1990, or the MSP 1991 Bonds, or a
combination of them, and:
1.  Develop the terms and legal documentation for the refinancing with
the assistance of the underwriter and outside legal counsel.
2.  Complete and distribute preliminary and final official statements
describing the University, the activities of the Hospital and the
Medical Service Plan, the revenue flow providing the security for the
refunding bonds, and the structure of the bonds.
3.  Solicit the rating of the bonds from Moody's Investors Service and
Standard & Poor's Corporation.
4.   Obtain a final proposal for the bonds and any derivatives.
5.  Negotiate, execute, and deliver the Bond Purchase Agreements with
the underwriters, Derivative Agreements with counterparties to be
selected, Trust Indentures with trustees to be selected, Escrow
Agreements with escrow agents to be selected, any agreements
required for the remarketing and liquidity of any variable rate bonds
issued, and execute and deliver the bonds, all within the limitations
of the attached resolution.
Regent Horning seconded the motion. Regent McFee observed that it is
very gratifying to note that people are watching the University's finances
and the opportunities to enhance them as closely as is evidenced by this
proposal.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY OF HOSPITAL REVENUE
BONDS AND MEDICAL SERVICE PLAN REVENUE BONDS, AND PROVIDING
FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer")
constitutes a constitutional body corporate established pursuant to Article VIII,
Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, as amended, with the general
supervision of the University of Michigan (the "University") and the control and
direction of all expenditures from the University's funds; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer entered into a master indenture, as supplemented (the
"Master Indenture") dated as of May 1, 1986 with Comerica Bank as Master Trustee
(the "Master Trustee"), pursuant to which revenue obligations for the benefit of the
University of Michigan Hospitals (the "Hospital") have been and will be issued and
secured; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously issued under the Master Indenture
its $130,720,000 Hospital Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 1986A, dated as of
May 1, 1986 and its $65,115,000 Hospital Revenue Bonds, Series 1990, dated as of
December 15, 1990 (collectively, the "Prior Hospital Bonds") and has determined it
222




January Meeting, 1998


may be appropriate and in the best interest of the Issuer to refund all or a portion of
the Prior Hospital Bonds, as determined by an Authorized Officer (hereinafter
defined) (the portion of the Prior Hospital Bonds to be refunded being herein called
the "Hospital Refunded Bonds"); and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously established its Medical Service Plan (the
"Medical Service Plan") as the mechanism for the managing of, and billing and
collecting charges for, the clinical practice activities of the faculty of the clinical
departments of the Medical School of the University (the "School"); and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously issued its $53,542,444.75 Medical
Service Plan Revenue Bonds, Series 1991, dated as of November 15, 1991 and
December 10, 1991 (the "Prior MSP Bonds") and has determined it may be
appropriate and in the best interest of the Issuer to refund all or a portion of the
Prior MSP Bonds, as determined by an Authorized Officer (the portion of the Prior
MSP Bonds to be refunded being herein called the "MSP Refunded Bonds"); and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties, and in order to
prudently control and direct expenditures from the University's funds, the Issuer
determines it is necessary and desirable to authorize the issuance of revenue
obligations (the "Bonds"), comprised of hospital revenue bonds (the "Hospital
Bonds") or Medical Service Plan Revenue Bonds (the "MSP Bonds") or a combination
thereof, to provide funds which, together with other available funds, may be used for
one or more of the following purposes: to refund the Hospital Refunded Bonds; to
refund the MSP Refunded Bonds; and to pay certain costs incurred in connection
with the issuance and sale of the Bonds and the refunding of the Hospital Refunded
Bonds and the MSP Refunded Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the Hospital Bonds will be issued pursuant to a trust indenture
(the "Series Indenture") to be entered into by and between the Issuer and a trustee
(the "Series Trustee") to be selected by the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer, or Associate Vice President and Treasurer of the University (each
an "Authorized Officer") as a series of revenue obligations under the Master
Indenture; and
WHEREAS, the MSP Bonds will be issued pursuant to a trust indenture (the
"MSP Indenture") to be entered into by and between the Issuer and a trustee (the
"Trustee") to be selected by an Authorized Officer as a series of revenue obligations;
and
WHEREAS, the Issuer shall retain one or more firms of underwriters for the
Bonds, to be designated by an Authorized Officer (collectively called the
"Underwriter"), to undertake market analysis with respect to the sale of the Bonds
and to submit an offer or offers to purchase the Bonds pursuant to a Bond Purchase
Agreement or Agreements (collectively the "Bond Purchase Agreement") to be
negotiated with the Underwriter and executed and delivered on behalf of the Issuer
by an Authorized Officer; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Regents of the University
of Michigan, as follows:
1. The Issuer hereby authorizes the issuance, execution and delivery under the
Master Indenture of hospital revenue bonds of the Issuer (herein called the "Hospital
Bonds") in one or more series to be designated as shall be determined by an
Authorized Officer (but which designation shall include the words "HOSPITAL
REVENUE REFUNDING BONDS") with appropriate series designations, in the
aggregate original principal amount to be established by an Authorized Officer, but
not to exceed the principal amount necessary to produce proceeds of $97,000,000, to
be dated as of the date or dates established by an Authorized Officer, for the purpose
of providing funds which, together with other available funds, may be used to pay all
or a portion of the costs of refunding the Hospital Refunded Bonds and to pay costs
incidental to the issuance of the Hospital Bonds and to the refunding. The Hospital
Bonds shall be serial bonds, or term bonds, which may be subject to redemption
requirements, or both, as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the first
maturity shall be not earlier than June 1, 1998 and the last maturity shall be no later
223




January Meeting, 1998


than December 1, 2027. The Hospital Bonds may bear no interest or may bear
interest at stated fixed rates for the respective maturities thereof as shall be
established by an Authorized Officer, but the highest fixed rate of interest for any
maturity shall not exceed 6% per annum, and the Bonds may be issued in whole or in
part as capital appreciation bonds, which for their term or any part thereof bear no
interest but appreciate in principal amount over time at compounded rate (not in
excess of 6% per annum) to be determined by an Authorized Officer. Alternatively,
all or part of the Hospital Bonds may bear interest at a variable rate of interest for all
or a portion of their term, and the variable rate of interest shall not exceed the
maximum rate permitted by law. In addition, all or part of the Bonds may be issued
in related series, one of which bears interest at a variable rate and one of which bears
interest at a residual rate determined by subtracting the variable rate from the fixed
rate paid by the Issuer, but the combined rate on such Hospital Bonds, taking the two
related series together, which shall be determined by an Authorized Officer, shall not
exceed 6% per annum. The Hospital Bonds may be subject to redemption or call for
purchase prior to maturity at the times and prices and in the manner as shall be
established by an Authorized Officer. The average annual scheduled principal and
interest requirements on the Hospital Bonds, taking into account any swap or other
arrangements described below, and assuming the variable rate on any Hospital Bonds
not also subject to a swap or other arrangement, and not issued as part of related
series as described above, is equal to 6% per annum, shall not exceed $10,000,000.
Interest on the Hospital Bonds shall be payable at the times as shall be specified by
an Authorized Officer. The Hospital Bonds shall be issued in filly registered form in
denominations, shall be payable as to principal and interest in the manner, shall be
subject to transfer and exchange, and shall be executed and authenticated, all as shall
be provided in the Series Indenture. The Hospital Bonds shall be sold to the
Underwriter pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement for a price to be established
by an Authorized Officer (but the Underwriter's discount, exclusive of original issue
discount, shall not exceed 0.8% of the principal amount thereof) plus accrued interest,
if any, from the dated date of the Hospital Bonds to the date of delivery thereof. In
connection with the issuance of the Hospital Bonds, either of the Authorized Officers
may, on behalf of and as the act of the Issuer, enter into an interest rate swap, cap or
similar agreement or agreements (collectively, the "Hospital Swap Agreement") with
a counter-party or counter-parties to be selected by the Authorized Officer. Such
Hospital Swap Agreement shall provide for payments between the Issuer and the
counter-party related to interest on the Hospital Bonds or indexed or market
established rates. The expected effective interest rates on the Hospital Bonds, taking
into account the effect of the Hospital Swap Agreement, shall be within the
limitations set forth herein.
Any or all of the Hospital Bonds may be made subject to tender for
purchase at the option of the holder thereof. The obligation of the Issuer to purchase
any such bonds made subject to tender options may be made payable from available
cash reserves of the University, subject to limitation to the amount of certain assets of
the Hospital, or may be made payable from a letter of credit, line of credit or other
liquidity device ("the Hospital Liquidity Device"), all as shall be determined by an
Authorized Officer and provided for in the Series Indenture. Any reimbursement
obligation for draws under the Hospital Liquidity Device shall be a limited and not
general obligation of the Issuer, payable from Hospital Gross Revenues and may be
secured by a pledge of Pledged Hospital Gross Revenues. Either Authorized Officer is
authorized to execute and deliver, for and on behalf of the Issuer, any agreements or
instruments necessary to obtain, and provide for repayments under, any Hospital
Liquidity Device deemed by such officer to be required for the purposes of this
Resolution. Purchase obligations shall not be considered as "principal and interest
requirements" hereunder.
2. The Issuer hereby authorizes the issuance, execution and delivery of medical
service plan revenue bonds of the Issuer (herein called the "MSP Bonds") in one or
more series to be designated as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer (but
which designation shall include the words "MEDICAL SERVICE PLAN REVENUE
REFUNDING BONDS"), with appropriate series designations, in the aggregate
original principal amount to be established by an Authorized Officer, but not to
exceed the principal amount necessary to produce proceeds of $60,000,000, to be
dated as of the date or dates established by an Authorized Officer, for the purpose of


224




January Meeting, 1998


providing funds which, together with other available funds, shall be used to pay all or
part of the costs of refunding the MSP Refunded Bonds and to pay costs incidental to
the refunding and to the issuance of the MSP Bonds. The MSP Bonds shall be serial
bonds, or term bonds, which may be subject to redemption requirements, or both, as
shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the first maturity shall be not earlier
than June 1, 1998 and the last maturity shall be no later than December 1, 2027. The
MSP Bonds may bear no interest or may bear interest at stated fixed rates for the
respective maturities thereof as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the
highest fixed rate of interest for any maturity shall not exceed 6% per annum, and the
MSP Bonds may be issued in whole or in part as capital appreciation bonds, which for
their term or any part thereof bear no interest but appreciate in principal amount
over time at compounded rate (not in excess of 6% per annum) to be determined by
an Authorized Officer. Alternatively, all or part of the MSP Bonds may bear interest
at a variable rate of interest for all or a portion of their term, and the variable rate of
interest shall not exceed the maximum rate permitted by law. In addition, all or part
of the MSP Bonds may be issued in related series, one of which bears interest at a
variable rate and one of which bears interest at a residual rate determined by
subtracting the variable rate from the fixed rate paid by the Issuer, but the combined
rate on such MSP Bonds, taking the two related series together, which shall be
determined by an Authorized Officer, shall not exceed 6% per annum. The MSP
Bonds may be subject to redemption or call for purchase prior to maturity at the
times and prices and in the manner as shall be established by an Authorized Officer.
The average annual principal and interest requirements on the MSP Bonds, taking
into account any swap or other arrangements described below, and assuming the
variable rate on any MSP Bonds not also subject to a swap or other arrangement, and
not issued as part of related series as described above, is equal to 6% per annum, shall
not exceed $5,500,000. Interest on the MSP Bonds shall be payable at the times as
shall be specified by an Authorized Officer. The MSP Bonds shall be issued in fully
registered form in denominations, shall be payable as to principal and interest in the
manner, shall be subject to transfer and exchange, and shall be executed and
authenticated, all as shall be provided in the MSP Indenture. The MSP Bonds shall
be sold to the Underwriter pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement for a price to
be established by an Authorized Officer (but the Underwriter's discount, exclusive of
original issue discount, shall not exceed 0.8% of the principal amount thereof) plus
accrued interest, if any, from the dated date of the MSP Bonds to the date of delivery
thereof. In connection with the issuance of the MSP Bonds, either of the Authorized
Officers may, on behalf of and as the act of the Issuer, enter into an interest rate
swap, cap or similar agreement or agreements (collectively, the "MSP Swap
Agreement") with a counterparty or counterparties to be selected by the Authorized
Officer. Such MSP Swap Agreement shall provide for payments between the Issuer
and the counterparty related to interest on the MSP Bonds or indexed or market
established rates. The expected effective interest rates on the MSP Bonds, taking
into account the effect of the MSP Swap Agreement, shall be within the limitations
set forth herein.
Any or all of the MSP Bonds may be made subject to tender for purchase at the
option of the holder thereof. The obligation of the Issuer to purchase any such MSP
Bonds made subject to tender options may be made payable from available cash
reserves of the University, subject to limitation to the amount of certain assets of the
Medical Service Plan or the Medical School, or may be made payable from a letter of
credit, line of credit or other liquidity device (the "MSP Liquidity Device"), all as shall
be determined by an Authorized Officer and provided for in the MSP Indenture. Any
reimbursement obligation for draws under the MSP Liquidity Device shall be a
limited and not general obligation of the Issuer payable from Medical Service Plan
Revenues and may be secured by a pledge of Medical Service Plan Revenues. Either
Authorized Officer is authorized to execute and deliver, for and on behalf of the
Issuer, any agreements or instruments necessary to obtain, and provide for
repayments under, any MSP Liquidity Device deemed by such officer to be required
for the purposes of this Resolution. Purchase obligations shall not be considered as
"principal and interest requirements."
3. The Hospital Bonds, and the obligations of the Issuer under the Hospital
Swap Agreement, shall be limited and not general obligations of the Issuer payable
from Hospital Gross Revenues (as defined in the Master Indenture) and equally and


225




January Meeting, 1998


ratably secured with all other Revenue Obligations (as defined in the Master
Indenture) by an irrevocable pledge of the Pledged Hospital Gross Revenues (as
defined in the Master Indenture) and the funds from time to time on deposit in
certain of the funds created pursuant to the Master Indenture and shall be
additionally secured by the funds from time to time on deposit in certain of the funds
created pursuant to the Series Indenture.
Except as provided in the Master Indenture and the Series Indenture, no
recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal amount of or interest or
premium on the Hospital Bonds or any obligation of the Issuer under the Master
Indenture, the Series Indenture or the Hospital Swap Agreement, or any claim based
thereon against the State of Michigan, the Issuer, or any officer or agent thereof, as
individuals, either directly or indirectly, nor shall the Hospital Bonds or any
obligation of the Issuer under the Master Indenture, the Series Indenture, or the
Hospital Swap Agreement become a lien on or be secured by any property, real,
personal or mixed of the State of Michigan or the Issuer or the University, other than
the Pledged Hospital Gross Revenues and the moneys from time to time on deposit in
certain of the funds established by the Master Indenture and the Series Indenture.
Notwithstanding anything herein, any obligations of the Issuer under the
Hospital Swap Agreement or any reimbursement agreement with respect to the
Hospital Liquidity Device may be payable and secured on a subordinated basis to the
Hospital Bonds and other Revenue Obligations.
4.  The MSP Bonds, and any obligations of the Issuer under the MSP Swap
Agreement, shall be limited and not general obligations of the Issuer payable from
and equally and ratably secured by an irrevocable pledge of the Medical Service Plan
Revenues (as defined in the MSP Indenture) on a parity basis with the Prior MSP
Bonds and shall be additionally secured by the funds from time to time on deposit in
certain of the funds created pursuant to the MSP Indenture.
Except as provided in the MSP Indenture, no recourse shall be had for the
payment of the principal amount of or interest or premium on the MSP Bonds or any
obligation of the Issuer under the MSP Indenture or the MSP Swap Agreement, or
any claim based thereon against the State of Michigan, the Issuer, or any officer or
agent thereof, as individuals, either directly or indirectly, nor shall the MSP Bonds or
any obligation of the Issuer under the MSP Indenture, or the MSP Swap Agreement
become a lien on or be secured by any property, real, personal or mixed of the State of
Michigan or the Issuer or the University, other than the Medical Service Plan
Revenues and the moneys from time to time on deposit in certain of the funds
established by the MSP Indenture.
Notwithstanding anything herein, any obligation of the Issuer under the MSP
Swap Agreement or any reimbursement agreement with respect to the MSP Liquidity
Device may be payable and secured on a subordinated basis to the MSP Bonds and
the Prior MSP Bonds.
5.  The right is reserved to issue additional bonds, notes or other obligations
payable  from  Hospital Gross Revenues or Medical Service Plan Revenues,
respectively, or secured on a parity basis with the Hospital Bonds or the MSP Bonds
from the Pledged Hospital Gross Revenues or the Medical Service Plan Revenues,
respectively, upon compliance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Master
Indenture or the MSP Indenture.
6. Either Authorized Officer is hereby authorized and directed, in the name
and on behalf of the Issuer and as its corporate act and deed, to retain a financial
advisor, if deemed necessary by the Authorized Officer, to determine which of the
Prior Hospital Bonds and the Prior MSP Bonds shall be refunded, to designate any
underwriters in addition to Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, to negotiate, execute
and deliver the Series Indenture, the MSP Indenture, the Bond Purchase Agreement
or Agreements, the Hospital Swap Agreement and the MSP Swap Agreement, in each
case subject to the terms hereof.


226




January Meeting, 1998


7. Either Authorized Officer is hereby authorized, empowered and directed,
in the name and on behalf of the Issuer, and as its corporate act and deed, to execute
the Hospital Bonds and the MSP Bonds by placing his manual or facsimile signature
thereon, and to deliver the separate issues of the Bonds to the Underwriter in
exchange for the purchase price thereof, as shall be provided in the Bond Purchase
Agreement or Agreements.
8.  Either Authorized Officer is hereby authorized to prepare or arrange to be
prepared the Preliminary Official Statement or Statements with respect to the Bonds
and to prepare or arrange to be prepared, and to execute and deliver on behalf of the
Issuer the Official Statement or Statements with respect to the Bonds and such
supplements or amendments to the Official Statement or Statements as may be required
pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement or Agreements. The Underwriter is hereby
authorized to circulate and use the Preliminary Official Statement or Statements and
the Official Statement or Statements, as the same may be so supplemented or amended,
in accordance with applicable law, in the offering, sale and remarketing of the Bonds.
9. Each of the Authorized Officers, the Secretary, the General Counsel, and
any other appropriate officer of the University are hereby authorized to perform all
acts and deeds and to execute and deliver all instruments and documents for an on
behalf of the Issuer or the University required by this resolution, the Master
Indenture, the Series Indenture, the MSP Indenture, the Hospital Swap Agreement,
the MSP Swap Agreement, the agreements, if any, entered into in connection with
the Hospital Liquidity Device or the MSP Liquidity Device, or the Bond Purchase
Agreement or Agreements, or necessary, expedient and proper in connection with the
issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds or any issue or series thereof, and the ongoing
operation of the financing programs represented by the Bonds, all as contemplated
hereby.
10. The Authorized Officers are, or either of them is, hereby authorized,
empowered and directed, in the name of and on behalf of the Issuer, and as its
corporate act and deed, to negotiate, execute and deliver an escrow agreement or
agreements relating to the Hospital refunded Bonds and the MSP Refunded Bonds, in
such form or forms as an Authorized Officer shall approve upon recommendation of
legal counsel, subject to the terms hereof, which approval shall be conclusively
evidenced by the execution of such escrow agreement.
11. In accordance with the requirements of Rule 15c2-12 of the United States
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Issuer is required in connection with the
issuance of the Bonds to enter into a Disclosure Undertaking or Undertakings for the
benefit of the holders and beneficial owners of the Bonds. Either Authorized Officer
is authorized to cause to be prepared and to execute and deliver, on behalf of the
Issuer, the Undertaking or Undertakings.
12. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in
conflict herewith be and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
Report of Sale of University Owned Real Estate
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that the University had
accepted an offer of $250,000 for University-owned real estate located at
5631 Sugarbush, Flint, Michigan, and that the transaction had been completed
in December 1997.
Vacant Lot Located in Harbor Springs, Emmet County, Michigan
Executive Vice President Kasdin presented this request to accept and
sell a vacant lot in Harbor Springs, Emmet County, Michigan. Following
some discussion, Regent McGowan moved, Regent Horning seconded, and
the Regents unanimously approved, acceptance of a gift of real estate located


227




January Meeting, 1998


in Harbor Springs, Michigan, and authorized the sale of the property, as
described in the Regents Communication.
President Bollinger arrived at this point, at 2:20 p.m.
Secretary of the University
President Bollinger described a recommendation to expand the duties of
Walter L. Harrison, vice president for university relations, to include the
function of secretary of the university and to change his title accordingly. He
noted that Roberta Palmer has been serving as secretary since 1995 and had
served admirably in that role, and said that she would be assuming a new role
as special advisor to him. President Bollinger observed that the position had
been constructed to include both roles prior to Ms. Palmer's appointment, and
this would be a return to the former structure.
Regent McFee moved that the position of secretary of the university be
combined with the position of vice president for university relations and that
Walter L. Harrison be appointed vice president for university relations and
secretary of the university, effective January 1, 1998. Regent Power seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Public Comments
There were no speakers wishing to address the Regents.
Closed Session
President Bollinger stated that the Regents would now meet in closed
session to consider the periodic personnel evaluations of two employees
pursuant to their request under section 8(a) of the Open Meetings Act. The
meeting then continued in executive session from 2:25-6:30 p.m.
Friday, January 16, 1998
The meeting convened at 9:45 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
Regents Horning, Maynard, McFee, McGowan, Newman, and Power. Also
present were Executive Vice President Kasdin, Executive Vice President
Omenn, Provost Cantor, Vice President and Secretary Harrison, Chancellor
Nelms, Chancellor Renick, and Interim Co-General Counsel Barry. Regent
Taylor, Regent Deitch, Vice Presidents Hartford, Kinnear, and Neidhardt
were absent.
Resolution in Honor of 1997 Michigan Wolverine Football Team
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and called on Regent
Horning. Regent Horning introduced Coach Lloyd Carr and Co-Captain Jon
Jansen to the assembly. He observed that in the locker room following the
Rose Bowl victory, Coach Carr and the others who spoke to the team had
stressed their pride in representing the University, rather than emphasizing
their own individual achievements. He then offered the following resolution:


228




January Meeting, 1998


Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan commend the 1997
Michigan Wolverine football team for its perfect 12-0 season, which
culminated in a 21-16 Rose Bowl victory over Washington State
University.
In their come-from-behind win in Pasadena, players and coaches
again displayed the tenacity, discipline, and resiliency they had shown
throughout the season. Ranked number one during the final month of
the regular season, the Wolverines were named national champions in
the Associated Press Top 25 poll, resulting in the University's first
national football championship in 50 years and the Big Ten's first
such title since 1968.
All-American junior Charles Woodson also made history when he
became the first primarily defensive player to win the Heisman
Trophy. With his agility, speed, and personal drive, Charles Woodson,
also the winner of the Walter Camp Football Foundation's Player of
the Year Award, left no doubt that he is college football's most
outstanding player.
Demonstrating the qualities of perseverance, determination, and
poise that he has exhibited all season, quarterback Brian Griese
earned the Rose Bowl's Most Valuable Player Award. An exemplary
student athlete, he also received an NCAA Today's Top VIII Award,
recognizing his achievements in athletics, academics, character, and
leadership, and was one of six team members to garner Academic All
Big Ten honors.
Finally, the Regents commend Coach Lloyd Carr, winner of five
coach-of-the-year awards, including those from the Walter Camp
Football Foundation and the American Football Coaches Association.
In the best tradition of Michigan football, he stressed the importance of
acting with integrity and setting and achieving goals on and off the
field, while also continually emphasizing the importance of the team
over individual players. A gifted motivator, he inspired players and
fans alike and made believers out of skeptics across the nation.
Following the Rose Bowl game, Coach Carr stated, "I don't think
anyone could ask any more of a team than what they gave." The
Regents express their wholehearted agreement and salute the entire
football team: the coaches; the captains, Jon Jansen and Eric Mayes;
and each and every one of the players, all of whom have contributed so
vitally to the hallowed tradition of Michigan football. Hail to the victors!
There followed a standing ovation, after which Coach Carr responded
that it was important to him to have a football team the Regents, alumni,
and Michigan residents can be proud of. Co-Captain Jon Jansen thanked


229




January Meeting, 1998


people for their continued support and noted that the support had been very
important to the players, both this year and in previous seasons.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Environmental Interpretive Center
Chancellor Renick noted that the environmental interpretive center is
an important component of the campus' academic program and institutional
strategy. He called on Mr. Doug Hanna, University architect.
Mr. Hanna noted that the Regents had previously approved the project,
architect, and site, and that approval was now being requested for the proposed
design and a revised budget. He gave a presentation including a site plan,
renderings of the exterior and interior, and an architectural model.
Following some discussion, Regent Horning moved approval of the
proposed design and revised budget for the UM-Dearborn Environmental
Interpretive Center. Regent McFee seconded the motion. The vote was then
taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Field House Addition
Mr. Hanna gave a presentation describing the proposed design of an
addition to the University of Michigan-Dearborn Field House, including a
computer-generated rendering of the proposed design.
Following some discussion, Regent McGowan moved approval of the
proposed design for the UM-Dearborn Field House Addition. Regent McFee
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
University of Michigan-Dearborn General Campus Renovation Project
Phase II: College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters (CASL) Building
Component
Chancellor Renick informed the Regents of the principal design
objectives that have been identified for the College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters (CASL) building component.
University of Michigan-Flint Campus Master Plan
Chancellor Nelms stated that the Regents are being asked to approve
the incorporation of the 25-acre parcel on the north side of the Flint River
(previously known as the AutoWorld property) into the University of
Michigan-Flint Master Plan.
He noted that input had been received from faculty, staff, and members
of the community. The goal is for the University of Michigan-Flint to have
one campus, as opposed to a north campus and south campus or any other
type of separate campus arrangement. He said that development of the site
will be driven by the academic needs of the campus and the region over a 20
to 25-year period of time. He called on Mr. Fred Mayer, university planner,
to present the proposed plan.
Mr. Mayer reviewed the University's general approach to planning,
noting that the current approach evolved during the 1960s and involves
developing a master plan that provides a broad conceptual framework for the
230




January Meeting, 1998


physical growth of the campus while incorporating the flexibility needed to
make changes based on fluctuating enrollments, changing academic programming
needs, and technological developments. Decisions on individual building projects
are made on a specific, project-by-project, basis. As academic programming needs
become identified, these are compared to potential developable sites, and
recommendations are then made for specific sites for particular projects.
Architectural details are brought to the Board once an architect has been
identified and has consulted with those who will be using the building and
developing the program.
Mr. Mayer displayed diagrams of the original plan, developed in the
1970s, along with the 1983 and 1992 updates. The purpose of the current
discussion is to incorporate the recently acquired AutoWorld property into
the plan, making it into one cohesive campus. He introduced Richard
Rigterrink, of Johnson Johnson & Roy, Inc., the Flint Campus' planning
consultant, to review the proposed master plan update.
Mr. Rigterrink observed that the master plan needs to incorporate
flexibility, as well as a physical framework within which that flexibility can
occur. He noted that until now, the campus has grown in an east-west
configuration. Incorporating the property north of the Flint River provides
an opportunity to make the river a focal point.
Mr. Rigterrink displayed a map of the proposed 1998 Master Plan that
incorporates the AutoWorld site. He pointed out that land adjacent to the
river is not owned by the University; it is a flood plain managed by the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers, and cannot be built upon. He noted that the plan
would include changing both the type and direction of traffic on the three
existing city streets and bridges that cross the campus, including changing
Harrison Street from a one-way to a two-way street in the campus area and
possibly transferring ownership of this street to the University.
Mr. Rigterrink stressed that a major emphasis of the plan is to bring the
community to campus. He displayed a map indicating future development
sites, pointing out that there are underground utilities corridors underneath
the AutoWorld property that cannot be built upon but that could be used for
roads and open spaces. It was emphasized that the building zones indicate
areas within which buildings can be placed, not actual buildings or building
footprints. The plan also indicates three possible areas that could be used for
parking.
Following some discussion, Regent Newman moved approval of
incorporation of the AutoWorld property into the existing campus master
plan, to be known as the 1998 Master Plan Update, according to the
presentation at the meeting. Regent Horning seconded the motion. There
was further discussion about the area on the north shore of the river that
constitutes the flood plain maintained by the Army Corps of Engineers.
Regent Newman stated that she fully supports the plan and that her
questions were meant not as criticism, but rather as a means for gaining a
better understanding of all of the issues.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.


231




January Meeting, 1998


University of Michigan-Flint Professional Studies and Classroom
Building (PS&CB) Project
Chancellor Nelms presented exterior design objectives for the PS&CB
project. This project, which had been approved by the Board in April 1997,
involves construction of a new building on the Flint campus. Regent Power
urged that closer attention be paid to the program characteristics prior to
discussion of exterior design elements and elevation in future projects.
University of Michigan-Flint Professional Studies and Classroom
Building
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved an increase in scope of the Professional
Studies and Classroom Building to incorporate a multimedia instructional
center.
Michigan Health Corporation (MHC)/Annual Business Plan
Executive Vice President Omenn announced that the MHC board had
unanimously approved a 1997-98 Business Plan and submitted it for
approval by the Board. Regent McFee requested that as the plan is
implemented, the Board continue to be apprised of MHC's activities. Regent
Power noted that it would be helpful if future plans would address the
objectives the MHC is trying to reach and how it plans to achieve these
objectives.
There being no further discussion, on a motion by Regent Power,
seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents unanimously approved the Michigan
Health Corporation's 1997-98 Business Plan and authorized MHC to take all
action necessary and appropriate to operate MHC.
Henry Russel Awards for 1998
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved the selection of Susan E. Alcock, associate
professor of classical archaeology and classics, and Trevor D. Wooley,
associate professor of mathematics, as 1998 Henry Russel Award recipients.
Recommendation for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Horning, and on
the recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive
Board, the Regents unanimously approved certain specified appointments to
medical staff membership.
Presidential Salary
Regent Power made the following motion:
Lee C. Bollinger became president of the University of Michigan
on February 1, 1997. The letter of engagement between the Regents
and President Bollinger called for annual performance reviews. The
Regents have now undertaken this review.


232




January Meeting, 1998


The results were unanimous and outstanding.    President
Bollinger's performance in office has met, and in all instances,
exceeded our expectations.
Consequently, I move that his annual base salary be increased by
4.5%, from $275,000 per year to $287,375, effective February 1, 1998
and running through August 31, 1998, at which time another
performance review will take place so as to put any adjustments in the
president's salary on the same cycle as for other University of Michigan
employees.
I understand that the consolidated salary schedules of all other
University of Michigan employees will also be released to the public
today.
Regent McFee seconded the motion.
Regent Power observed that Regent Deitch had participated in
yesterday's performance review session and could not be present at today's
meeting, but had asked him to read into the record his views:
I regret not being here this morning; I've had a client commitment
arise which I could not rearrange. I enthusiastically support the
decision on President Bollinger's salary. He has done a superlative job
this past year.
Regent McFee commented that the evaluation had concluded that the
president had not only lived up to the Board's expectation, but had exceeded
them in all respects.
Regent McGowan observed that one of the paramount requirements and
expectations of the new president was in the area of his personnel appointments.
She pointed to the newly appointed executive officers at the table as evidence of
his skills in the area, and noted that the evaluation of the president's
performance had taken into account the exceptional appointments he had made.
Regent Newman stated that she concurs in the evaluation and commends
President Bollinger for his leadership, his appointments, and his vision.
However, she disagrees with the percentage increase that had been decided
upon, and stressed that her plan to vote against the salary increase in no way
reflects her admiration for his performance over the past year.
Regent Homing expressed agreement with the others' opinions of the
president's performance. He noted that one of the factors in his selection as
president had been that he would be able to "hit the ground running," and that
the president had indeed done that. He said that he intended to support the
salary increase, although he would like to have these kept more in line with
inflation.
Regent Maynard observed that even though she and Regent Taylor had
not been members of the Board when President Bollinger had been selected,
they were very pleased with the decision. His vision and energy have been
most valuable to the University community.


233




January Meeting, 1998


President Bollinger thanked the Regents for their comments and
expressed how wonderful his experience as president had been so far.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved, with Regents
Horning, Maynard, McFee, McGowan, and Power voting in favor, and Regent
Newman opposed.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at about
10:45 a.m. Regents' expenses for December 1997 totaled $868.66. The next
meeting is scheduled for February 19-20, 1998.
Walter Harrison,
Secretary of the University


234




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1998


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, February 19, 1998
The Regents convened at 1:40 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Horning, Deitch, Maynard, McFee,
McGowan, Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Provost Cantor,
Executive Vice President Kasdin, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice
President and Secretary Harrison, Vice President Hartford, Vice President
Kinnear, Vice President Neidhardt, Chancellor Nelms, and Interim
Co-General Counsel Barry. Chancellor Renick was absent; Provost Simpson
attended in his place.
Vice President for Development
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and announced the
recommendation of Susan K. Feagin as vice president for development,
beginning May 4, 1998, to succeed Thomas Kinnear.
He noted that Vice President Kinnear had joined the administration
four years ago when there were a number of pressing issues facing the Office
of Development. He said that he had brought "an absolutely top sense of
professionalism and organization to central development, closing out the
capital campaign with the largest amount of money raised by any public
university." President Bollinger expressed appreciation for Vice President
Kinnear's service on behalf of the entire University. There followed a round
of applause.
Regent McFee moved approval of the appointment of Susan K. Feagin as
vice president for development, effective May 4, 1998. Regent McGowan
seconded the motion. President Bollinger observed that Susan Feagin is
widely known in the development community as an outstandingly capable
professional, and he was extremely pleased to be able to recommend her for
appointment to this position.
The vote was then taken, and the motion to approve. the appointment of
Susan K. Feagin as vice president for development was approved unanimously.
Environmental Theme Semester
Provost Cantor noted that since 1992, the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts has held "theme semesters," in which various activities are
organized around themes of particular interest to the campus and more
broadly. The current theme semester is organized around the environment
and issues related to it. She noted that faculty from a number of schools and
colleges, along with an unusually high number of students, have been
involved in planning and organizing this theme semester. She called on
Professor John Knott, who serves as faculty chair of the Environmental
Theme Semester.


235




February Meeting, 1998


Professor Knott observed that the Environmental Theme Semester
marks the first time that students have genuinely become involved in the
theme semester. This is largely due to the leadership of Mona Hanna, a
senior in the School of Natural Resources and Environment, who chairs the
student committee associated with the event. He then introduced Ms. Hanna.
Ms. Hanna aired a multimedia presentation that had been created by
another student, Albert Garcia. Following the presentation, she noted that
press kits had been distributed to national media to promote the theme
semester, and she reviewed the contents of the press kit with the Board.
President's Report
President Bollinger announced the names of professors who had been
awarded Fulbright grants and other awards.  He also noted that the
University of Michigan Women's Health Program had been named a national
center of excellence in women's health, one of thirteen centers nationwide to
have been so designated by the U.S. Public Health Service.
President Bollinger also noted the deaths of Professor Gardner Ackley, the
Henry Carter Adams Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Political Economy;
William Jenkins, chancellor emeritus of the University of Michigan-Dearborn;
and Joseph Wojczynski, a senior student in the dance department who was
killed in an automobile accident.
Comments from Executive Vice President Omenn
Executive Vice President Omenn reported that increased volume in the
hospital had led to improved budget projections for the health system;
currently a net operating margin of $15 million is predicted, rather than the
break-even budget that had been projected.
Regarding the $200 million expenditure reduction program, he noted
that the program is intact, although the timing for achieving the goal has
been changed.
Executive Vice President Omenn announced that he had signed a contract
with the Henry Ford Health System to serve children with especially complicated
medical needs. This involves a major partnership with the state's department of
community health. He also noted that a new health plan with Ford Motor
Company is coming to fruition, called "Partnership Health." He also reported
on other items of interest in the health system.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. The minutes for December 1997 and January 1998 were
submitted.
Reports.   Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports on
Investment, Plant Extension, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action.
Interim Co-General Counsel Barry submitted the Litigation Report.
Vice President Neidhardt submitted a report on Projects Established
during January 1998. He also reported that for the fiscal year 1996, the


236




February Meeting, 1998


University of Michigan had the largest volume of research, at $469 million,
of any UoS. Institution.
VoImtary $Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted the Report on
Voluntary Support.
Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois
for gastroenterology research and other support in the Medical School..... $ 34,825
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering, and
for employee matching gifts............................................ 11,305
Terence E. Adderley, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for research and the Solid State Industrial Affiliates Program in
the College of Engineering.............................................   20,000
Aetna Life & Casualty Company, Hartord, Connecticut
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the
School of Business Administration......................................  15,000
Airdrie Foundation, Deerfield, Illinois
for the Tom D. Rowe Memorial Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy....... 5,000
Akebono Brake Industry Company, Ltd., Buffalo Grove, Illinois
for mechanical engineering and applied mechanics research in
the  College  of Engineering.............................................  18,000
Bruce B. Allen, Kentfield, California
2,200 shares of IRT Property common stock and
200 shares of First Commercial Bancorp common stock
for the Bruce B. Allen Graduate Scholarship in the School of Business
A dm inistration.......................................................  30,406
Phyllis R. Allen Trust
for the Gail Allen Scholarship in the Center for the Education of Women...... 5,000
Allison Engine Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research in the College of Engineering................................  15,000
Alpha Omega Fraternity, Detroit Chapter, Southfield
for the Alpha Omega Fraternity Student Dental Forum..................... 5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and the Biophysics Research Division........................ 64,288
American Express Philanthropic Program, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee  m atching  gifts.............................................  6,122
Ameritech Michigan, Detroit
for support in the School of Management and the Center for
Engineering Education and Practice at the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn...................................................  60 000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for  em ployee  m atching  gifts............................................  13,150
Herbert andc Carol Amster Family Philanthropic Fund, Ann Arbor
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Research Fund in the Medical
School, and for the University Musical Society............................  17,500
William J. Anderson, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the College of Engineering................................  10,000
Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
Ann Arbor Acquisition Corporation, Howell
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................... 5,000
Anonymous Donor
for support of the Law  School.........................................   125,000
Anonymous Donor
748 shares of International Business Machines Corporation common stock
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint........................... 77,184
Anonymous Donor
for the Program in Film and Video in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts..........................................................  59000
Anonymous Donor
for the Campus Development Endowment at the University of
M ichigan Flint......................................................  186,064
237




February Meeting, 1998


Anonymous Donor
for the Classical Studies Endowed Research Fund in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................... 5,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Sally Fleming Master Class Series Fund in the School of Music....... 53,500
Anonymous Donor
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 30,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in the College of Engineering................................. 5,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Carole Holmes Fund for Pediatrics in the Medical School............ 20,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Radiation Oncology Research Fund in the Medical School............ 10,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Monet Exhibition Fund in the Museum of Art, and for support
in  the  School of M usic.................................................  20,100
Clifford T. Argue, Mercer Island, Washington
for the Theodore C. Argue Memorial Scholarship in the College
of Engineering....................................................... 10,000
Joseph A. Aristeo, Livonia
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for the Civil
Engineering Alumni Friends Association Fellowship and other support
in the College of Engineering........................................... 7,500
ASDA Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  150,000
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Art & Design, and for employee matching gifts... 29,063
Austin/Canoe Island Trust
for the Warren R. Austin Endowed Scholarship in the Medical School........ 10,000
Aviron, Mountain View, California
for the H. F. Maassab Student Research Award Fund in the School of
Public  H ealth........................................................  25,000
Joseph C. Bancroft Educational & Charitable Foundation Account, McComb, Missouri
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School
of Business Administration............................................  20,000
Peggy Bauervic Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Peggy Bauervic Foundation Scholarship in the Department of
A thletics............................................................  12,500
Cheryl Baumgartner Trust
for scholarships and the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department
of A thletics..........................................................  10,000
Ralph E. Bennett Post 29 Amvets, Mount Clemens
for the Trauma Burn Center Firefighter's Fund and the Burn Development
Research & Education Fund in the Medical School.................    11,227
Roger A. Berg, Short Hills, New Jersey
1,000 shares of Sapient Corporation common stock
for the Eve and Albert Berg Memorial Loan Fund and the
Roger A. Berg, MD, Radiology Endowment in the Medical School............ 61,125
Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., Omaha, Nebraska
90 share of General Dynamics Corporation common stock
for support in the Schools of Medicine and Business Administration,
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 7,810
Philip C. and Sara D. Berry Account of the Ernst & Young Foundation,
Lyndhurst, New Jersey
for support in the School of Business Administration and the
College of Literature Science, and the Arts and for the University
Musical Society, and the University of Michigan Club of Cleveland
Scholarship...........................................................  5,000
Leo R. Beus, Phoenix, Arizona
for support of the Law  School..........................................  50,000
Bickner Family Foundation, Sycamore, Illinois
for the building fund in the Division of Kinesiology........................ 42,500
Esther Bihlmeyer Estate
for the Burn Development Research & Education Fund in the
M edical  School.......................................................  10,000
Jerry Bilik Music, Inc., Cabin John, Maryland
for the Helga and Jerry Bilik/William Revelli Music Education
Scholarship  in  the School of Music.......................................  5,000


238




February Meeting, 1998


Biomar International, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................... 6,250
Gunnar Birkerts, Bloomfield Hills
for the Gunnar Birkerts Fund and other support in the Bentley
Historical Library.................................................... 25,100
BMW North America, Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute....................................................   15,000
Norman R. Bodine, Bloomfield Hills
100 shares of United Technologies Corporation common stock
for the Ralph B. Bodine Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the Arts..................................................  7,325
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for employee matching   gifts.............................................  5,488
Bonisteel Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Bentley Historical Library..................................... 65,000
James S. Bower Charitable Remainder Unitrust
for support in the Medical School...................................... 522,938
Dorothy Green Boyce Trust
for the University Library............................................ 22,400
George H. Boyce, Kingsford
100 shares of Chase Manhattan Corporation common stock
for the  Dr. George H. Boyce Fund......................................  10,353
Thomas B. Brademas, Mishawaka, Indiana
for the Thomas Brooks Brademas Endowment for Community
Service in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning................ 100,000
Robert S. Bradley Trust
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics, and
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College
of Literature, Science, and  the Arts......................................  5,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................... 70,000
Jenet K. Brown Estate
for the Meyer M., Jenet K. and Donald J. Brown Memorial Fund............ 17,337
Bugas Fund, Dearborn
for the Charles G. Harris Neurological Research Fund in the
M edical School.....................................................  25,000
Burger King Corporation, Miami, Florida
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................... 10,000
Richard R. Burns, Duluth, Minnesota
353 shares of Bellsouth Corporation common stock
for support of the Law  School..........................................  19,790
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Morrisville, North Carolina
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  65,000
Richard J. Burstein, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the School of Social Work, for the Comprehensive
Cancer Center and for the University Musical Society....................... 5,000
Irene Bychinsky-Bendler Estate
for support in the Schools of Art & Design and Music, and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................ 7,561
William G. Byrnes, Washington, DC
45 shares of Bankers Trust New York Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,189
CaP Cure, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................ 100,000
Cardiac Pacemakers, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for research  in   the Medical School.....................................  250,000
John J. Carver, Ann Arbor
for the Environmental and Global Change Education Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................ 7,500
Emily C. Chang, Pacific Palisades, California
for the William A. Paton Accounting Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration......................................  10,000
Anthony T. Chapekis, Dublin, Ohio
for support in the Department of Athletics.5,000
Chase Manhattan Bank Foundation, New York, New York
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration, and for employee matching gifts......... 50,100


239




February Meeting, 1998


Zuohuang Chen, Wichita, Kansas
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for employee matching gifts........................................ 5,565
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.............................. 15,000
Donald S. Chisholm Ann Arbor
660 shares of CNA Surety Corporation common stock
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Music............ 10,086
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for the Chrysler Corporation Engineering Scholarship and Fellowship
Fund and other support in the College of Engineering, for the
National Pollution Prevention Center in the School of Natural
Resources and Environment and for employee matching gifts............... 97,013
Civitas Initiative, Chicago, Illinois
for the Civitas Scholarship in the School of Social Work................... 150,000
Clarcor Foundation, Rockford, Illinois
for employee m atching  gifts.............................................  5,000
Claude W. Coleman, Coldwater Lake
for ophthalmology research in the Medical School.......................... 5,000
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship.....................................  8,750
Phelps M. Connell Ann Arbor
125 shares of First Chicago NBD Corporation common stock
for the Connell Endowment in the School of Natural Resources
and  Environm ent....................................................  10,301
Consumers Energy, Jackson
for employee matching  gifts.............................................  5,000
Lewis H. Cooper, Ann Arbor
for the Hugh and Nan Cooper Scholarship and other support in the
School of M usic......................................................  25,500
Gayle C. Crick, Indianapolis Indiana
450 shares of Eli Lilly & Company common stock
for support in the College of Pharmacy..................................  30,389
Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  9,875
Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  106,162
Donald J. Cumming, Fairport, New York
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 10,000
Louis B. Cushman, Houston, Texas
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  30,773
Robert A. Darr, Las Vegas, Nevada
for SchembechlerHall in the Department of Athletics...................... 5,000
Robert J. Daverman Foundation, Grand Rapids
for support in the College of Engineering, and for the Bentley
H istorical Library.....................................................  5,200
William J. Davis, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for support in the
Schools of Law and Music and for the Bob Ufer Memorial Fund.............. 5,720
De Vaux Family Living Trust
62 shares of Lucent Technologies, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,005
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute............................... 10,000
Dearborn Fire Fighters, Dearborn
for support m   the Medical School.......................................  25,000
Donald DeFosset, Jr., Bloomfield Hills
195 shares of Omnicare, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Engineering.................................  5,838
Carla M. Dehmlow, Wilmette, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 8,000
Deister Machine Company, Inc., Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center, and for unrestricted support
of the University  of M ichigan...........................................  7,700
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics............................... 20,000
240




February Meeting, 1998


Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  7,500
Mrs. Grant A. Dibert, Jamestown, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 15,000
Elizabeth Dichter, Paradise Valley, Arizona
for support in the School of Public Health................................. 5,000
Gino DiClemente Living Trust
for support in the College of Engineering, and for the Michigan Union....... 20,000
Charles E. Diebolt, Northville
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 200,000
William T. Dobson, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for support in the
School of Business Administration and for the Matthaei Botanical
Gardens and other support in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts............................................................. 5,500
James R. Donahey, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics,
for the Museum of Art, and for the University Musical Society.............. 17,620
Robert J. Donia, La Jolla, California
1,628 shares of Merrill Lynch & Company common stock
for the Robert J. Donia Professorship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts........................................................ 117,572
Thomas J. Donnelly, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for support of the Law School, and for the Class of 1946 Engineering
Fund in the College of Engineering...................................... 5,000
Jean W. Dorsett-Robinson, Sullivans Island, South Carolina
100 shares of International Business Machines Corporation common stock
for the Jean Dorsett-Robinson Scholarship in the School of Public Health..... 10,322
Glenn R. Doshay, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 25,000
Dover Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for the  David  Kahn  Fund...............................................  5,000
Eaton Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research   Institute.....................................................  7,500
Eileen M. Ebin, Longboat Key, Florida
for the William E. Zimmie Visiting Professorship in the College
of Engineering........................................................  9,000
Edward W.Elliott, Jr., Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the Department of Athletics, and in School of
Management at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................... 7,000
Frederick A. Erb, Naples, Florida
8,800 shares of First of America Bank Corporation common stock
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowments in the
Schools of Business Administration and Natural Resources
and  Environm ent...................................................  678,150
Ethyl Corporation, Richmond, Virginia
for mechanical engineering support in the College of Engineering........... 20,000
Tyrone C. Fahner, Chicago, Illinois
for the NEH Challenge Grant Fund in the Humanities Institute,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................  10,000
Eugene N.fTeingold, Ann Arbor
196 shares of Pacific Gas & Electric company common stock
for the S. J. Axelrod Scholarship in the School of Public Health.............. 6,003
Murray J. Feiwell, Indianapolis, Indiana
295 shares of Eli Lilly & Company common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics, the Law School,
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 20,558
William N. Findley, Rumford, Rhode Island
for support in the College of Engineering................................  10,000
First Chicago NBD Corporation, Detroit
for the University Musical Society, and for employee matching gifts.......... 19,051
First Union Corporation, Charlotte, North Carolina
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the
School of Business Administration......................................  15,000
Robert B. Fiske, Jr., New York New York
for support of the Law  School..........................................  10,000


241




February Meeting, 1998


Ethel and James Flinn Foundation, Detroit
for research in the Medical School..................................... 258,263
Nathan M. Forbes, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 5,000
Sidney Forbes, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 5,000
Benson Ford, Jr., Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the
University of Michigan-Dearborn.5,000
University  of Michigan-Dearborn........................................  5,000
Benson and Edith Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the
University of Michigan-Dearborn....................................... 20,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Real Estate Fellowship in the School of Business Administration,
for research in the College of Engineering, for the Transportation
Reporting Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies and for the University Musical Society........................... 207,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Real Estate Fellowship in the School of Business
Administration, and for support in the Medical School..................... 11,000
Ford Senior Players Championship, Dearborn
for the Chain of Support Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 25,000
Walter & Josephine Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse,
the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................................... 20,000
William and Martha Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse,
the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................................  20,000
Martin J. Frank, Beverly Hills, California
536 shares of Kayne Anderson Rising Dividends Fund mutual fund
for support in the School of Education, and for the Cecil J. Nesbitt
Actuarial Education Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts.....................                                      10,0 00
Samuel and Jean Frankel Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in Rabbinic Literature,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 20,000
Norman and Edna Freehling Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Norman FreehIing Visiting Professorship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................  5,000
Freightliner Corporation, Portland, Oregon
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation
Research  Institute....................................................  15,000
Stuart M. and Lillian M. Frey Fund, Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering................................. 5,000
Edward P. Frohlich, Grosse Pointe Farms
1,118 shares of Rockwell International Corporation common stock
for scholarships and other support in the School of Music, and
for the University Musical Society......................................  57,857
Frances I. Furlong Trust
for the Harold A. Furlong Professorship in the Medical School.............. 10,000
M. Anthony Garland, London, England
for the Residential College Multicultural Initiative Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................  10,001
Benjamin F. Garmer III, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
82 shares of Computer Sciences Corporation common stock
for the Foley & Lardner Fund in the Law School........................... 7,101
Sarah S. Garrison, Bloomfield Hills
for the Anne E. Stevens Shipman Scholarship............................. 5,000
Gassin Family Foundation, Highland Park, Illinois
for the Gassin Family Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts.......................................  25,000
Frederick W. Gehring, Ann Arbor
750 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Frederick W. and Lois B. Gehring Professorship in
Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 31,878
Leonard S. Gell, Ada
165 shares of Charter One Financial, Inc., common stock
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  10,302


242




February Meeting, 1998


Gelman Educational Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Social Work..................................   5,000
Genentech Foundation for Growth & Development, Charlottesville, Virginia
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  20,000
General Cable Corporation, Highland Heights, Kentucky
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering........................... 20,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering........... 5,000
Bruce A. Gershenson, Franklin
for the Bruce and Suzy Gershenson Dean's Merit Scholarship
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 5,000
Pearl Gertz Charitable Remainder Trust
for the Denise Gertz Cohen Jewish Scholars Speakers Fund
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 105,377
GHS Corporation, Battle Creek
for Shirley and Robert McFee Guitar Fund in the School of Music, and
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Law, and
the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 12,500
Glaucoma Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  25,000
Glaxo Wellcome, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for the Crystallography Facility in the Biophysics Research Division,
for support in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy and
for employee m atching  gifts.............................................  7,675
Globe Foundation, Scottsdale, Arizona
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 26,000
Martin R. Goldman, Southfield
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............. 20,000
Graham Companies, York, Pennsylvania
for the Donald C. Graham Endowment in the College of Engineering........ 50,000
John A. and E. Madonna Graham Trust
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund.......................... 28,680
Eugene M. Grant and Company, New York, New York
for the Irving M. Hermeln Curator of Judaica Endowment in the
U niversity  Library.....................................................  8,333
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Center for Human Growth and Development............ 75,659
Carl B. Grawn Estate
for support of the Law  School........................................... 44,455
Greenfield Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for research
in  the  M edical School.................................................  10,000
Ruth A. Gross, Tucson, Arizona
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies........... 10,000
Kalvin M. rove Petersburg, St. Petersburg, Florida
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 20,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for minority and female scholarships and the Minority Engineering
Program in the College of Engineering.................................. 10,000
Nancy E. Gwinn, Chevy Chase Maryland
for the Gwinn-Cole Family Scholarship in the School of Information.......... 5,000
Jacob W. Haas, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics............................... 40,000
Joseph F. Haas, Atlanta, Geor ia
1,085 shares of Pepsico, Inc., common stock
for the Geismer-Hiaas-Reinach Dean's Merit Scholarship in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 38,246
William K.Iall, Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000
Michael R. Hallman, Redmond, Washington
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Cornelia W. Hamilton, West Hartford, Connecticut
for support in the Medical School, and for the University Library............. 5,000
John T. Hammond, Kenosha, Wisconsin
for the Claire Sliney Memorial Fund in the School of Education............. 30,000
Jerry F. Hanlon, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000


243




February Meeting, 1998


Iverna Harrington Estate
for the Dr. Richard H. Harrington Scholarship in Metallurgy............... 47,510
Marian E. Harris, Lakewood, New Jersey
for the James E. Harris Chemistry Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the  Arts........................................  5,000
Nola A. Havelka, Apache Junction Arizona
for the Havelka Family Scholarship in the College of Engineering........... 10,000
Barnett C. Helzberg, Jr., Kansas City, Missouri
for the Barnett and Shirley Helzberg Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration...................................... 16,875
Shirley and Barnett Helzberg Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Barnett and Shlrley Helzberg Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration..................................... 106,875
Keith S. and Marcelle Henley Foundation, Ann Arbor
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School........................ 5,000
Edward L. Herremans, Belmont
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics,
for the Orthodontic Alumni Clinic Fund in the School of Dentistry, and
for the Dave Striffler Fund in the School of Public Health................... 5,000
Hitachi, Ltd., Takasaki-Shi Gunma, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 23,750
Irwin T. Holtzman, Bloomfield Hills
for the  University  Library..............................................  5,266
John K. Hoyns, New York, New York
for support of the Law  School...........................................  7,500
Hudson-Webber Foundation, Detroit
for employee matching gifts............................... 5,222
George J. Huebner, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the George J. Huebner, Jr,. Prize Fund in the College of Engineering...... 6,835
Gordon W. Hueschen Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics and the Law School............... 6,000
Curtis E. Huntington Ann Arbor
800 shares of CGM Capital Development mutual fund for the
Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund and other support
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 28,388
Ruth J. Husung, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Nursing, in memory of Mary Schroder........... 10,000
Frances B. Imoberstag Charitable Foundation, Romulus
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Heritage Landscaping Fund,
the University of Michigan-Dearborn.....................................  7,000
Inman Family Foundation, Detroit
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering........... 6,000
Marguerite Iskenderian, Brooklyn, New York
for the Haig P. Iskenderian Scholarship in the College of Engineering........ 15,000
John R. Jamieson, Toledo, Ohio
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 15,000
Michael J. Jandernoa, Grand Rapids
for support in the School of Business Administration..................... 198,082
Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Schools of Dentistry and Social Work.................... 50,400
Conrad and Caroline Jobst Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
for the Caroline B. Jobst Laboratory in the Medical School................ 150,000
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick New Jersey
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  13,500
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health and
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research........ 1,249,208
John F. Joity, Houston, Texas
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.......................................................... 5,000
Richard A. Jones, Wilson, Wyoming
100 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock:
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Law,
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the University
M usical  Society.......................................................  8,009


244




February Meeting, 1998


Robert T. Joseph, Northbrook, Illinois
195 shares of Merrill Lynch Growth Fund mutual fund
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,091
Ray W. Judson, Pasadena, California
for the Ray W. and Mary Lou Judson Scholarship in the College
of Engineering.......................................................  20,000
John P. Junge, Rancho Santa Fe, California
1,600 shares of Symix Systems, Inc., common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics............................... 24,900
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation-Canada, Ontario, Canada
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  25,000
K1 Spring & Stamping Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Max Kade German House Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..................................................  6,000
Jim Kamman, Laguna Hills, California
for support in the Department of Athletics............................... 30,000
Michael E. Kassan, West Hollywood, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
Richard Katcher, Beachwood, Ohio
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,225
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Schools of Law and Nursing, and
for program support at the University of Michigan....................... 155,479
Charles S. Kennedy, Grosse Pointe
1,857 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics............................... 59,488
Elizabeth E. Kennedy Fund
for the University Musical Society......................................  15,000
Gloria B. Kepka Estate
for support of the Law  School..........................................  10,000
Richard Kerr, Battle Creek
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
C. Robert Kidder, New Albany, Ohio
2,500 shares of Gillette Company common stock
for the C. Robert and Mary Kidder Endowed Scholarships in
the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 245,547
Robert P. and Jean W. Kirby Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............. 5,000
Laurence J. Kirshbaum, New York, New York
1,000 shares of Engineering Animation, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 46,250
K. M. D. Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society......................................  12,500
Knight Foundation, Miami, Florida
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies......................... 650,000
Koepfgen Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.................... 8,000
Daniel F. Kolb, New York, New York
for support of the Law  School..........................................  10,000
Lakeshore Stamping Company, Chesterfield
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Esther LaMed, Ann Arbor
700 shares of various corporate common stock,
two bonds and a cash payment
for the Esther and Louis LaMed Fund for Yiddish Studies
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 100,000
Kent H. Landsberg Foundation, Temecula, California
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  10,000
Paul L. Lee, New York, New York
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000
Mark J. Levick, Atlanta, Georgia
for support of the Law School, and for the Humanities Institute
and other support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 11,000
Michael J. Levitt, Englewood, New Jersey
for the Levitt Family Scholarship in the School of Business Administration... 10,000
245




February Meeting, 1998


Kirk J. Lewis, Boise, Idaho
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,000
Life Trends, Inc., Vero Beach, Florida
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research.......... 10,000
Lincoln Health Care Foundation, Charlotte, North Carolina
for the M. B. Landers, Sr., Memorial Student Loan Fund in the
M edical School.......................................................  25,000
Lincoln National Corporation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the
School of Business Administration......................................  15,000
Arthur Lindenauer, New York, New York
for the Lindenauer Vascular Research and Education Award Fund
in the Medical School.............................................  25,000
Jeffrey Liss, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Jeffrey and Susan Liss Scholarship in the Law School, and
for the Gertrude Nadich Liss Travel Award Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................  5,000
Christine Litwin-Sanguinetti, Los Altos, California
500 shares of Synopsys, Inc., common stock f
or scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 18,219
Michael J. Lobsinger, Bloomfield Hills
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 20,000
Lockheed Martin Corporation Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the College of Engineering and for the Tauber
Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration
and the College of Engineering.......................................  118,000
Anna Suk-Fong Lok, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  6,000
J. Mark and Linda C. Lozier Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Loganberry Scholarship in the Department of Athletics,
for the Corporate Environmental Management Program and
the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business
A dm inistration.......................................................  25,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 100,000
William C. Lyle, Jr., Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics................... 5,000
Joseph P. Lynch III, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics and the Medical School............ 6,000
Benard L. MIaas Foundation, Farmington Hills
for support in the Department of Athletics................................ 5,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Residential College in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and for research in the School of Education.................. 70,900
David R. MacDonald, Bethesda, Maryland
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,000
Curtis L. Mack, Atlanta, Georgia
for the Wade H. McCree Professorship and other support in the
L aw   School.......................................................  8,125
Charlotte E. MacNeal Trust
for the Ward J. MacNeal Educational and Scientific Memorial
Fund  in  the M edical School............................................  29,991
John W. Madigan, Chicago, Illinois
for the Holly and John Madigan Endowed Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration.......................................  8,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  16,663
Rose Mary Marin Trust
for the Axel Marin Scholarship in the College of Engineering............. 1,000,000
Mark IV Industries Foundation, Inc., Amherst, New York
for the Mark IV Foundation Fund in the College of Engineering............. 40,000
James S. McDonnell Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for research in the School of Education................................. 228,165
C. Blake McDowell, Jr., Akron, Ohio
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  8,500
Robert E. McFarland, Farmington Hills
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000


246




February Meeting, 1998


Tony L. McGee, Terre Haute, Indiana
40 shares of Abbott Laboratories common stock and
40 shares of Bristol-Myers-Squibb Company common stock
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship.................................. 6,451
McGregor Family Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Max and Hedwig Aupperle Travel Award Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................  12,500
Julian G. McIntosh Estate
for the Julian and Vera McIntosh Memorial Fund in the School
of  M usic..........................................................  1 070,000
M. Mildred McIntosh, Boca Raton, Florida
for the Dance Scholarship in the School of Music.......................... 10,000
McKinley Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the  University  Musical Society......................................  10,000
McKinley Financial Partnership 1, Ann Arbor
for the Community Service Learning Fund................................ 10,650
Joanne T. Meagher, Ypsilanti
for support in the School of Business Administration and the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 6,000
Medical Class of 1951, Ann Arbor
for the Medical Class of 1951 Scholarship in the Medical School.............. 7,006
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Education..................................  12,500
Merck & Company, Inc., West Point, Pennsylvania
for the Asthma Management and Prevention Fund in the School of
Public Health.............................. 5,500
Merck & Company, Inc., Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Summer Projects Fund
in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering..... 50,000
Michigan Regional Council of Carpenters, Ferndale
for scholarships in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning........... 8,000
Harold M. Miller, Bay City
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics...   10,000
Mobil Administrative Services Company, Dallas, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous
Media, College of Engineering..........................................  20,000
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of
Athletics, and for the Clements Library...................................  6,000
Richard G. Morgan, Los Angeles, California
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000
John C. MorIey Cleveland, Ohio
for the John C. and Sally S. Morley Endowed Professorship and
other support in the School of Business Administration................... 105,000
Minnie L. Morrison Estate
for the Charles and Minnie Morrison Scholarship.......................... 6,384
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
for the Living Writers Fund in the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts and for the School of Music, the Museum of Art
and the University Library.............................................  8,280
Cruse W. Moss, Ann Arbor
1,000 shares of 5th Third Bancorp common stock and a cash gift:
for the D'Arms Awards in the Humanities, Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies and for the Clements Library, the School
of Music and the Museum   of Art........................................  80,140
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment, and
at the University of Michigan-Flint................................... 2,350,000
John S. Munn, Clark, Colorado
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in the
M edical  School.......................................................  62,500
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc. Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts................................................  107,177
MZM Productions, Inc., Miami Lakes, Florida
for the Jerry Hanlon Endowed Football Lineman Scholarship and
other support in the Department of Athletics.............................. 7,500
William K. Najjar, Grand Rapids
for support in the School of Dentistry................................... 20,000
247




February Meeting, 1998


National Bank of Detroit Charitable Trust, Detroit
for support in the School of Management at the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn...................................................  12,500
Ruediger Naumann-Etienne, Oakland, California
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Robert D. and Janet E. Neary Account of the Ernst & Young Foundation
for the Robert D. and Janet E. Neary Funds in the School of
Business Administration and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts........................................................  90,000
NEC Corporation, Kanagawa, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 40,000
Leo Nevas, Westport, Connecticut
127 shares of Procter & Gamble common stock
for gifts pending  designation...........................................  10,093
Ann Newman, Bloomfield Hills
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the
School of Business Administration...................................... 13,500
Virginia Stewart Nicklas, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Education
and for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund............................ 13,200
Donald E. Nordlund, Barrington, Illinois
100 shares of First of America Corporation common stock
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  7,706
North American Lighting, Inc., Farmington Hills
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.......... 7,500
Northwest Airlines, St. Paul, Minnesota
for support of the University Hospitals..................................  50,000
Novellus Systems, Inc., San Jose, California
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 20,000
Michael J. Novoson, Durham, North Carolina
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center....................................  5,000
Gail B. Odgers, Mill Valley, California
for support in the School of Art & Design, and for the Neil Staebler
Political Education Fund in the School of Public Policy..................... 7,000
Eric A. Oesterle, Glen Ellyn, Illinois
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  10,000
Thomas W. Ostrander, New York, New York
for the Paton Accounting Center in the School of Business
Administration, and for support in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  25,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for biology and mathematics support in the College of Literature,
Science,and  the  Arts.................................................  100,000
Deryck A. Palmer, Maplewood, New Jersey
for support of the  Law   School...........................................  5,000
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for the Elsa U. Pardee Funds in the Medical School........................ 89,517
Donald R. Parfet, Richland
for support in the School of Business Administration, for student
aid andc other support in the Center for the Education of Women
and for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 15,525
Parke-Davis & Company, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School.......................................  45,000
Donald H. Parsons, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Garo A. Partoyan, McLean, Virginia
for support of the  Law   School..........................................  5,000
Randolph C.Paschke, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for support
in the School of Business Administration................................  11,000
Pearsall Family Foundation, Oak Park, Illinois
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  10,000
Howard H. Peckham, Hendersonville, North Carolina
for the  Clem ents Library...............................................  5,000
Pennsylvania Fashions, Inc., Warrendale, Pennsylvania
for support in the School of Business Administration and the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 5,000
Terrence G. Perris, Cleveland, Ohio
for support of the Law  School..........................................  10,000


248




February Meeting, 1998


Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Center for Human Growth and Development....................... 96,000
Jeffry M. and Barbara Picower Foundation, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Jeffry M. and Barbara Picower Foundation Fund in the
College of Lterature, Science, and the Arts............................ 25,000
Murray C. Pitt Trust
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................... 5,000
Richard W. Pogue, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Richard W. Pogue Endowment in the Law School.................. 150,000
Laurence J. Pons, Brighton
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan, and for the
Museum of Art....................................................     20,200
Herbert & Elsa Ponting Foundation, Detroit
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute............................... 15,000
Poorman-Hoyt Stratford Foundation, San Diego, California
for the Pharmacology Research & Education Fund in the Medical School...... 5,000
Allan T. Popelka, Pacific Palisades, California
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.................... 5,000
E. Miles Prentice III, New York, New York
for support of the Law School........................................... 6,000
Procter & Gamble Fund Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
John A. Pursley, Lock Haven, Pennsylvania
for the John H. Pursley Donor Pooled Income Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering............................ 10,000
G. Robina Quale, Albion
for the G. Robina Quale Donor Pooled Income Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the Leslie Alexander and Gladys Dyer Quale
Endowed  Scholarship.................................................  80,000
Yvonne S. Quinn, New York, New York
for support in the Law School and the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies and for scholarships, fellowships
and other student aid at the University of Michigan....................... 14,500
Radiological Society of North America R & E, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  7,083
Rainbow Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics, and the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  40,250
Leonard Rand Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and for the University of Michigan Club of Cleveland Scholarship............ 7,500
Barbara Reaser, Glenview, Illinois
for undergraduate student aid..........................................  50,000
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  100,000
John Rich Beverly Hills, California
for the John Rich Professorship in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts........................................................  150,000
Thomas B. Ridgley, Columbus, Ohio
328 shares of Advanced Micro Devices common stock
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,812
Jessie Ridley Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Services for Students with Disabilities Gift Fund................... 10,000
John E. Riecker, Midland
300 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for the Margaret A. and John E. Riecker Law Library Fund
in  the  Law   School....................................................  29,775
Bernard B. Rinella, Chicago, Illinois
for the Bernard B. and Gloria L. Rinella Award Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................ 5,000
Roy H. Roberts, Naples, Florida
for the Dr. Roy and Mrs. Natalie Roberts Fund in the School
of  D entistry.........................................................  54,200
Jerry E. Robertson, St. Paul, Minnesota
94 shares of Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company common stock
for the A. S. Smith Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts..............................................................  7,871


249




February Meeting, 1998


Kenneth J. Robinson, Ann Arbor
for the Judy and Ken Robinson Endowment in the Medical
School, and for the University Musical Society............................. 5,450
Margaret M. Robinson Estate
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts..........................................................  5,000
Todd P. Robinson, Greensboro, North Carolina
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................... 10,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Population Studies Center, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  22,756
Richard H. Rogel, Avon, Colorado
3,534 shares of Janus Venture Fund mutual fund
for gifts pending  designation..........................................  200,000
Stephen M. Ross, New York, New York
for the Stephen Ross Professorship in Real Estate in
the School of Business Administration.................................. 250,000
Georgia S. Rowe, Sun City, Arizona
for the Tom D. Rowe Memorial Scholarship in the
College of Pharmacy................................................... 5,000
Joseph E. Rowe, Xenia, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering.................................  5,000
Marshall V. Rozzi, Chicago, Illinois
for the S. J. Axelrod Scholarship in the School of Public Health.............. 5,000
Marion W. Ryan Trustee
for the Thomas P. Ryan Memorial Scholarship at the University
of Michigan-Flint and for the Michigan League and WFUM-TV............. 25,600
Sage Foundation, Brighton
for support of the Law  School..........................................  25,000
Richard V. Sandler, Los Angeles, California
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 5,000
Ashish D. Sarkar, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering and the School
of Nursing, and for unrestricted support of the University
of  M ichigan..........................................................  12,500
Raymond H. Sawusch, Sun City, Arizona
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund................................. 5,000
Schering Sales Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for the Ann Arbor Flower Show presented by the Matthaei
Botanical Gardens, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 8,465
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc., Madison, New Jersey
for the Schering-Plough Graduate Fellowship in the
College  of Pharm acy.................................................  100,000
Albert G. and Olive H. Schlink Foundation, Norwalk, Ohio
for research in the Institute of Gerontology............................... 5,000
Madeleine T. Schneider, Ann Arbor
for the R. C. Schneider Neurosurgical Fund in the Medical School............ 5,000
Schreiber Foundation for Cancer Research, Holland
for research in the School of Public Health................................ 8,000
Werner W. Schroeder Estate
for the Gerald R. Ford Fellowship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..................................................  9,827
Shape Corporation, Grand Haven
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 5,000
Shell Oil Company, Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in
Porous Media, College of Engineering.................................. 20,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for the Shell Fellowship in Chemical Engineering, College
of Engineering.......................................................  36,060,
Langley R. Shook, Washington, DC
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,000
Jack H. Shuler, Naples, Florida
110 shares of Comerica common stock
for gifts pending designation.................................. 9,746
Marguerite C Smiley, Moscow, Idaho
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  10,000
Cece Smith, Dallas, Texas
for support in the School of Business Administration and
250




February Meeting, 1998


for the Architecture Alumni Scholarship in the College
of Architecture and Urban Planning, in memory of Linn
and  Gracie  Sm ith.....................................................  10,000
Smith Richardson Foundation, Inc., Greensboro, North Carolina
for research  in  the School of Education..................................  49,995
Richard C. Sneed, Dusseldorf, Germany
150 shares of TRW, Inc.., common stock
for support of the Law School............                            8,306
Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers, New York, New York
for the Society of Naval Architects Scholarship in the College
of  Engineering........................................................  8,000
Sony Electronics, Inc., Montvale, New Jersey
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
Norman M. Spindelman, Fort Myers, Florida
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School........................ 5,000
Laurence L. Spitters, Palo Alto, California
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  10,000
John and Lenel Srochi-Meyerhoff Fund, Baltimore, Maryland
for the Residential College Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..................................................  5,000
Standard Products Company, Dearborn
for support in the School of Art &  Design................................  15,000
Statprobe Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Richard G. Cornell Scholarship in the School of Public
Health, and for employee matching gifts.................................  10,100
John P. Stefan Estate
for the Lather Stefan  Scholarship.......................................  10,859
Clinton F. Stimpson III, Fort Gratiot
for support in the School of Business Administration, and the
Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 30,000
Dean C. Storkan, Hollister, California
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  13,000
George Strumbos, Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Medical School.....................................  100,000
John W. Sweetland, Los Angeles, California
for the Sumner and Laura Foster Library Acquisition Fund
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 10,000
Miriam F. Tabor, Sarasota, Florida
300 shares of Baxter International, Inc., common stock
for the Amson C. and Miriam F. Tabor Scholarship in
the  School of M usic...................................................  15,384
Tauber Family Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Joel D. Tauber Endowment Funds in the School of
Business Administration and the College of Engineering.................. 364,650
Teammates, Inc., River Ridge, Louisiana
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  12,461
Tenneco Automotive, Greenwich, Connecticut
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  7,500
Robert P. Thome, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Frances Willson Thompson Trust
for the Frances Willson Thompson Library at the University
of M ichigan-Flint.....................................................  72,538
Raymond Tierney, Milford, Connecticut
98 shares of Bellsouth Corporation common stock
for the University  Library..............................................  5,494
Time Warner, Inc., New York New York
for the Time Warner Fellowship for Minority Journalists
in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..................... 50,000
Tisch Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Tisch Endowment for the Dean in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................  600,000
Preston R. Tisch #2 Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the P. Robert Tisch Tennis Gift Fund in the Department
of Athletics and for the Preston R. Tisch Professorship in
Judaic Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 250,000
Harry A. and Margaret D.Towsley Foundation, Midland
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics,
251




February Meeting, 1998


for support in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts and for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund and
employee matching gifts.............................................. 256,104
Trimas Corporation, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics, and for the
University Musical Society.......................................     25,000
Stefan F. Tucker, Washington, DC
2,450 shares of Franklin National Bank common stock and a cash gift
for support in the School of Business Administration, and
for the Stefan and Marilyn Tucker Scholarship in the Law School........... 52,469
A. Kirk Twiss, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Susan B. UUrich, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering................................  12,500
Unilever United States Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for student aid and the Associates Program in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  20,000
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for employee m atching  gifts.............................................  7,640
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor Scholarship............... 6,000
University of Michigan Club of Denver, Aurora, Colorado
for the University of Michigan Club of Denver Scholarship.................. 5,345
University of Michigan Club of Greater Philadelphia,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the University of Michigan Club of Greater Philadelphia
Scholarship...........................................................  7,107
University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Washington, DC
for the University of Washington, DC, Scholarship........................ 10,000
University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah
for the Obert C. Tanner Lecturer in Philosophy Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................... 23,000
Kenneth P. Urban, New Canaan, Connecticut
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Donia Vakuf Foundation, La Jolla, California
for endowment support in the History Department, and for the
Center for Russian and East European Studies Endowment
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 8,000
Van Vlack Family Charitable Fund, Portage
for the Van Vlack Family Fund in the College of Engineering.............. 116,608
Bob Vizas Berkeley, Califorma
for the Vizas Family Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the Martin Luther
King  Scholarship.....................................................  17,500
George A. Wade, Boise, Idaho
for support in the Department of Athletics, the Schools of Education
and Medicine, and in Division of Kinesiology............................. 14,500
Timothy Wadhams, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of
Athletics, and for support in the School of Business Administration........... 7,000
John Wagner, Ann Arbor
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts and for the Clements Library, the Museum of Art
and the University Musical Society.......................................  5,165
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Northfield Illinois
for the Tom D. Rowe Memorial Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy...... 10,000
Bruce Walker North Muskegon
for W U6M /W VGR....................................................  15,000
Derrick N. Walker, West Bloomfield
250 shares of Affiliated Community Bancorp common stock and
100 shares of YPF S.A. Sponsored ADR common stock
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship................................. 12,859
Herbert S. and Ruth Wander Philanthropic Fund, Highland Park, Illinois
for Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts..............................................................  5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School, and the Colleges of
Pharmacy and Literature, Science, and the Arts and for
biostatistics support in the School of Public Health....................... 181,709
252




February Meeting, 1998


James E. Wasco, Boxford, Massachusetts
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and
for support in the Schools of Medicine and Music,
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 5,500
Robert C. Weinbaum, Birmingham
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics,
for support of the Law School and for the Comprehensive
Cancer Center, in memory of Shirley Allen Weinbaum..................... 10,000
David Westin, New York, New York
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,000
John D. Wheeler, East Tawas
200 shares of Corn Products International, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the  Clements  Library...............................................  6,222
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the
School of Business Administration......................................  15,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
For employee  matching gifts.............................................  5,000
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for the Pharmacology Research and Education Fund in the
Medical School, and for physics research in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  67,355
Richard P. Whitker, Ann Arbor
for the Law Library Gift Fund in the Law School.......................... 10,000
Jeffrey K. Willemain, Grosse Pointe
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Ronald J. Woods, North Palm Beach, Florida
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................... 10,000
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for the building fund in the School of Engineering at
the University  of Michigan-Dearborn.................................... 50,000
Bruce E. Wright Trust
for the Lillian B. and Bruce E. Wright Memorial Scholarship
and other support at the University of Michigan-Flint.................... 341,950
Larry J. Wright, Kingwood, Texas
for the Larry and Bev Wright Scholarship in the Department
of  A thletics...........................................................   5,000
Samuel E. Wyly, Dallas, Texas
for Sam Wyly Hall in the School of Business Administration.............. 1,000,000
Xerox Corporation U.S.A., Rochester, New York
for the Macromolecular Research Center in the College of
Engineering..........................................................  5,000
Richard A. Yarmain, Ann Arbor
for Armenian Studies support in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, in memory of Agnes and Harry Yarmain..................... 25,000
Paul A. Yhouse, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for support in
the Schools of Business Administration and Medicine and
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program
in the College of Literature Science, and the Arts......................... 28,500
Stanley R. Zax, Woodland Hills, California
for support of the Law  School..........................................  25,000
Donald E. Zekany, Ann Arbor
for the Rose Mary Marin Scholarship in the School of Education............ 20,000
Samuel Zell Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Samuel Zell Professorship in the Economics of Risk,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 300,000
Jonathan F. Zeschin Living Trust
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000
W. Tom ZurSchmiede, Jr., Grosse Pointe Farms
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and
Medicine, and in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 5,000
4th International Symposium of Transport Phenomena & Dynamics, Ann Arbor
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................... 5,000


253




February Meeting, 1998


The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Ascent Logic Corporation, Bingham Farms
Software and training for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Barbara E. Bryant, Ann Arbor
Research equipment and supplies for the College of Engineering
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
Architectural services for the Clements Library
Roger Gordon, Ann Arbor
An European economic review for the Sumner and Laura Foster Library
Hewlett-Packard, Palo Alto, California
Computer equipment for the College of Engineering
Robert W. Husband, Adrian
A collection of 2,570 bumblebees for the Museum of Zoology
Thomas S. Porter, Ann Arbor
A print entitled, "Irregular Angular Brushstrokes" by Sol Lewitt for the School of
Business Administration
Eric Quist, Ann Arbor
Various publications for the Department of Materials Science and Engineering
Eugene I. Schuster, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
42 lithographs by various artists for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Berkowitz
Gallery
Sematech, Austin, Texas
A peak reactor for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Weingartz Supply Company, Utica
A Simplicity lawn tractor for the Grounds Department
Deborah Weisblatt, Huntington Woods
Four pieces of Steuben glass for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Berkowitz
Gallery
Donald Wiiken, Oak Park, Illinois
A  sculpture entitled, "Kick Start" by Herb Babcock for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn
Sue Woesthoff, Ann Arbor
141 books for the University of Michigan-Flint, Frances Willson Thompson Library
Clarence Wolf, Gladwyne, Pennsylvania
A Moorish style footed clock and a painting for the Clements Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
John Arthos, Ann Arbor                Lon Raley, Ann Arbor
Central Paint Supply Company, Flint   Irina V. Reshnetnikova, Yekaterinburg, Russia
Bartley R. Frueh, Ann Arbor           Nancy E. Resnick, Farmington Hills
Todd E. Harburn, Okemos               S-3 Engineering, Inc., Ann Arbor
Fay J. Joseph, Flint                  George H. Sexton, Ann Arbor
Valerie Kern, Amelia Island, Florida  Robert M. Stern Ann Arbor
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor              Helen Beers Tibbals, Ann Arbor
SergeiN. Libedev-Ussr, Ann Arbor      Emily Wang, Dearborn Heights
Herman L. Miller, Ann Arbor
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted a number of personnel
actions, including recommendations for six new Arthur F. Thurnau
professors and the appointment of Earl Lewis as dean of the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies.
NEW APPOINTMENT AND PROMOTION
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANK
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1998
Stillman, Amy K., Associate Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology)


254




February Meeting, 1998


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective January 1, 1998
Howell, Joel D., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, Associate
Professor of Health Management and Policy, without tenure, School of Public Health,
and Associate Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
promoted to Professor of Health Management and Policy, without tenure, School of
Public Health, and Professor of History, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Gingerich, Philip D., reappointed Director, Museum of Palentology, three-year term
Loeb, Louis E., reappointed Chair, Department of Philosophy, one year term
McDonald, Terrence J., from Associate Dean for Academic Appointments to Associate Dean
for Academic Affairs, and reappointed Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, one year term
Shatz, Marilyn J., reappointed Director, Program in Linguistics, three year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Beddor, Patrice S., Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, also appointed Acting
Director, Program in Linguistics, one year term, August 1, 1998
Darwall, Stephen L., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department
of Philosophy, three year term, July 1, 1999
Katehi, Linda P. B., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
also appointed Associate Dean for Graduate Education, College of Engineering, five
year term, May 1, 1998
Lewis, Earl, from Interim Dean, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, to Dean,
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and Vice Provost for Academic Affairs,
March 1, 1998-June 30, 2003
Lopez, Donald S., Jr., Professor of Buddhist and Tebetan Studies, also appointed Chair,
Department of Asian Languages and Cultures, two year term, July 1, 1998
Nair, Vijayan N., Professor of Statistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of Engineering,
also appointed Chair, Department of Statistics, five year term, July 1, 1998
Owen, Robert M., Professor of Marine Geology, also appointed Associate Dean for
Undergraduate Education and Long Range Planning, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, three year term, August 1, 1998
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Flint, Christopher, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, research leave
extended, January 1-May 31, 1998


255




February Meeting, 1998


ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective February 20, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Establishing Professorships
Alfred S. Sussman Collegiate Professorship in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, five year renewable term, September 1, 1998
Distinguished Professorship in Oncology, Medical School, five year renewable term
John L. Kemink, M.D. Professorship in Neurotology, Medical School, five year renewable term
Percy J. Murphy, M.D. and Mary C. Murphy, R.N. Professorship in Pediatrics for Child
Health Delivery, Medical School, five year renewable term
Renaming Professorships
Henry J. Meyer Collegiate Professor of Social Work, September 1, 1998
(previously the Fedele F. Fauri Collegiate Professor of Social Work
New Academic Administrative Positions
Associate Vice President for Research and Executive Director of Research Administration,
Office of the Vice President for Research, March 1, 1998
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Almaguer, Tomas, Associate Professor of Sociology and American Culture, with tenure, also
appointed an Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three year term
Amrine, Frederick R., Germanic Languages and Literature, with tenure, also appointed an
Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three year term
Bier, Carol, Norman Freehling Visiting Professor, four month term, September 1, 1998
Danzinger,, Sheldon H., Professor of Social Work and Public Policy, School of Public Policy,
and Professor of Public Policy, School of Public Policy, also appointed the Henry J.
Meyer Collegiate Professor of Social Work and Public Policy, School of Social Work,
five year term, September 1, 1998
Feagin, Susan K., Vice President for Development, May 4, 1998
Gibala, Ronald, Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering and Macromolecular
Science and Engineering, with tenure, also appointed the Frances E. VanVlack
Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, five year-seven month term,
January 1, 1998
Jackson, Frank C., James B. and Grace J. Nelson Philosopher-in-Residence, February 16 -February 21, 1998
Lopez, Donald S., Jr., Professor of Buddhist and Tebetan Studies, with tenure, also
appointed an Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three year term
Patt, Yale N., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, also
appointed an Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, three year term
Telian, Steven A., Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, also appointed the John L.
Kemink, M.D. Professor of Neurotology, April 1, 1998
Tinkle, Theresa L., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, also appointed an Arthur F.
Thurnau Professor, three year term
Ulaby, Fawwaz T., R. Jamison and Betty Williams Professor of Engineering and Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, also appointed an Arthur F.
Thurnau Professor, three year term
Personnel reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
Vivas, Jose L., D.D.A., Lecturer in Dentistry
256




February Meeting, 1998


School of Education
Raudenbush, Stella L., Ed.M., Instructor in Education
College of Engineering
Martino, Christopher J., Ph.D., Lecturer in Chemical Engineering
Division of Kinesiology
Caviston, Michael L., M.S., Lecturer in Kinesiology
Flansburg, Erin L., B.S., Lecturer in Kinesiology
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Barber, Jennifer S., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology
Chang, Kay S., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures
Dufresne, Eric, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics
Frieze, William F., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics
Graham, Christa M., M.S., Lecturer I in Chemistry
Ingle, Alexander G., B.A., Lecturer II in Classical Studies
Lin, Ali M.T., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics
Murphy, J. Anne, M.A., Lecturer II in Psychology, September 1, 1998
Proulx, Christopher D., M.A., Lecturer I in Economics
Raithel, Georg A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics
Reister, Pamela K., M.A., Lecturer II in History of Art
Sanjines, Javier C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Spanish
Shea, William F., Ph.D., Lecturer II in American Studies
Sheehi, Stephen P., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Near Eastern Studies
Skurski, Julie A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Anthropology and History
Swabey, Daphne E., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Taylor, G. Keith, M.A., Lecturer II in English, Residential College
Traves, William N., M.Sc., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Von Moltke, Johannes F., B.A., Instructor in Germanic Languages and Literatures and
Instructor in Film and Video Studies
Wang, Hung-Jen, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Economics
White, Christine M., M.S.W., Lecturer II in Psychology
Zukin, Jane, M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Medical School
Amdur, Richard L., Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry
Denno, Matthew L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, January 5, 1998
Finn, William G., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pathology, January 12, 1998
Mulligan, Michael S., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1998
Weitzel, William F., III, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, December 1, 1997
UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Kridli, Suha, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing
CANCELLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Kinnard, Margaret, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine (previously reported effective
October 13, 1997
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Connelly, Matthew J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Assistant Professor of Public Policy, School of Public Policy,
September 1, 1997 (previously reported as Instructor in History, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Instructor in Public Policy, School of Public Policy)
Medical School
McDougle, Leon, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Family Medicine, November 17, 1997
(previously reported as Lecturer in Family Medicine)


257




February Meeting, 1998


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Granzow-De La Cerda, Inigo, from Assistant Curator, Herbarium, and Lecturer II in Biology
to Assistant Curator, Herbarium, and Lecturer I in Biology
Hall, Jon C, from Lecturer in English to Lecturer II in English
Mangiafico, James D., from Lecturer II in Philosophy to Adjunct Assistant Professor of
Philosophy
Mufti, Aamir R., from Instructor in English to Assistant Professor of English Language and
Literature
Sandler, Kevin S., from Lecturer I in Film and Video Studies to Lecturer in American
Culture Program and English
Medical School
Sonda, Paul L, III, from Associate Professor of Surgery and Lecturer in Radiology to Clinical
Assistant Professor II of Radiology
Wechsler, Stephanie B., from Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to Assistant
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, December 1, 1997
School of Social Work
Tropman, John E., from Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, also
appointed Lecturer II, Honors Program, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Eschrich, Gabriella M., from Lecturer II in Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, to Visiting Lecturer II in French, College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Grafe, Alan G., from Lecturer I in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to
Adjunct Assistant Professor of Computer Science and Adjunct Assistant Professor of
Physics, College of Arts and Sciences
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective January 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
School of Education
Menlo, Allen, Professor Emeritus of Education
College of Engineering
Akcasu, Ziyaeddin A., Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Macromolecular
Science and Engineering
Law School
Gray, Whitmore, Professor Emeritus of Law, January 17, 1998
Reed, John W., Thomas M. Cooley Professor Emeritus of Law
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Livermore, Shaw, Jr., Professor Emeritus of History, January 2, 1998
Wright, John W., Associate Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1-May 31, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Chaffers, James A., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, scholarly activity leave


258




February Meeting, 1998


Kowalewski, Henry S., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Marzolf, Kingsbury, Professor of Architecture, with tenure, retirement furlough,
January 1-May 31, 1999, and January 1-May 31, 2000
College of Engineering
Calahan, Donald A., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
retirement furlough, January 1, 1998-December 31, 1999
Keyserling, William M., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure,
College of Engineering, and Associate Professor of Environmental and Industrial
Health, with tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave
Sonntag, Richard E., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, retirement furlough,
January 1-December 31, 1998
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Fine, Sidney, Andrew Dickson White Professor of History, with tenure, extended sick leave,
January 22-May 31, 1998
Flint, Christopher, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, personal leave
Gazda, Elaine K., Curator, Kelsey Museum of Archaeology and Professor of Classical Art and
Archaeology, duty off campus
Kucich, John R., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 1998
Lopez-Grigera, Luisa, Professor of Spanish, with tenure, duty off campus
McSparran, Frances K., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, extended sick leave,
January 12-26, 1998
Porter, Richard C., Professor of Economics, with tenure, duty off campus
Sellinger, Peter, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, research leave
Medical School
Cascade, Philip N., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 1998
Marx, Mary V., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 1998
Riegger, Lori Q., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, extended sick leave,
December 11, 1997-May 6, 1998
Silver, Terry M., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 1998
Sisson, James C., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, retirement furlough,
February 1-August 31, 1998
School of Music
Crawford, David E., Professor of Music, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
September 1-December 31, 1998
Patterson, Willis C., Associate Dean for Affirmative Action/Faculty Appointments
and Professor of Music, with tenure, retirement furlough, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Norman, Richard S., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, extended sick leave,
November 21-30, 1997
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Chou, Yu-Min, Professor of Business Economics and Finance, with tenure, retirement
furlough, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Sullivan, Edward E., Professor of Education, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1, 1997- May 31, 1998


259




February Meeting, 1998


CORRECTIONS TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Dentistry
Johnson, Richard A., Clinical Associate Professor II of Dentistry, extended sick leave,
October 28, 1997-January 11, 1998 (previously reported as September 28, 1997 -January 11, 1998)
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Kivelson, Valerie A., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1998 (previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1998)
Smith-Rosenberg, Carroll, Professor of History and Women's Studies, with tenure, scholarly
activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1998 (previously reported as leave without salary)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1997, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Sutton, Sharon, Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, with tenure, resigned
School of Dentistry
Steinberg, Barry S., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, and Assistant
Professor of Oral Surgery, Medical School, resigned, February 7, 1998
College ofEngineering
Curl, Rane L., Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, retired
Irani, Keki B., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
retired January 1, 1998
Rudensteiner, Elke A., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
resigned, May 31, 1998
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Buchan, Mark, Lecturer I in Classical Studies, term complete, April 30, 1997
Carduner, Marianne T., Lecturer II in English, resigned, August 31, 1998
Church, Peter A., Lecturer I in French, Residential College, term complete, April 30, 1997
Goic, Cedomil, Domingo Faustino Sarmiento Professor of Spanish-American Literature, retired
Kinekie, Sheila A., Lecturer II in Women's Studies, term complete, April 30, 1997
Lee, Chul-In, Lecturer I in Economics, term complete, April 30, 1997
Lee, Yiu-Keung, Lecturer I in Studio Arts, Residential College, term complete, April 30, 1997
Letteri, Mark, Lecturer II in Philosophy, term complete, April 30, 1997
Manicakam, Jayakumar, Lecturer II in Tamil, term complete, April 30, 1997
McGuire, Mary K., Lecturer II in American Culture, term complete, April 30, 1997
Niatum, Duane, Lecturer II in Native American Studies, term complete, April 30, 1997
O'Keefe, Vincent A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, term complete
Reed, Rebecca G., Lecturer I in English, resigned
Sabbagh, Hani R., Lecturer II in Arabic Languages, term complete, April 30, 1997
Sklenar, Robert J., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, term complete, April 30, 1997
Standish, Marc, Lecturer I in English, term complete, April 30, 1997
Medical School
Brent, Gregg L., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete
Marvar, Rhonda A., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, term complete
O'Kelly, Sean W., Clinical Assistant Professor II in Anesthesiology, resigned
Proudfoot, Jeffrey C., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, resigned March 20, 1998
Sadoshima, Junichi, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, resigned, January 6, 1998
Woods, John D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, resigned
School of Public Health
Valsania, Paola, Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, resigned


260




February Meeting, 1998


UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Trojan, Paul K., Professor of Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure, retired, May 1, 1998
CANCELLATION OF REGENTS COMMUNICATION
School of Business Administration
Amin, Kaushik. Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure, appointment canceled
(previously reported as effective March 1, 1997)
Retirement Memoirs. Four retirement memoirs were submitted for
approval.
Rane L. Curl, professor of chemical engineering, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 1997, following an exemplary and productive
career.
Professor Curl received his S.B. (1951) and Sc.D. (1955) degrees in chemical
engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Following
employment by the Shell Development Corporation and Technische Hogeschool
Eindhoven in the Netherlands, he came to the University of Michigan in 1964 as
associate professor of chemical engineering. He was promoted to professor in
1969.
As a teacher, Professor Curl enhanced the curriculum by improving
existing courses and introducing new ones. In the last decade he introduced
an important change in the senior laboratory course. From a set of
perfunctory separate experiments, the course has evolved into one in which
real problems are simulated and experiments are performed that lead to
their solution. The course also emphasizes laboratory safety and environmental protection.
Professor Curl's research and more than 70 publications pursue the
explanation of commonly accepted, but incompletely understood, phenomena
in fields ranging from industrial processes to medicinal chemistry. A large
portion of his research is his life-long study of caves and karsts, where his
work has extended far beyond the interests of a pure naturalist into the
application of the new field of fractals to the explanation of geological
characteristics. He has been a force in the development of the National
Speleological Society as a true professional organization, serving as its
president and in other administrative positions.
Within the department, Professor Curl established and chaired the
Safety Committee, making him a leader in recognizing the need for
introducing environmental and safety concerns into the educational process.
His colleagues and students will remember his clear enunciation of the
consistently high standards of performance expected in his classes and in
graduate research.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming him Rane L.
Curl professor emeritus of chemical engineering.
Cedomil Goic, Domingo Faustino Sarmiento Professor of SpanishAmerican Literature, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1997.
Professor Goic earned his undergraduate degree in 1953 and his Ph.D.
degree in 1965 from   the University of Chile in Santiago.  He held
professorships in Chilean and Spanish American literature at that university,


261




February Meeting, 1998


as well as numerous visiting professorships in North America, before joining
the faculty of the University of Michigan in 1976 as professor of Spanish.
An internationally renowned specialist in a broad range of SpanishAmerican literature, with particular concentration in the modem period,
Professor Goic is the author of many scholarly works. His publications
include La novela chilena (1968), Historia de la novel hispanoamericana (1972),
La novela de la revolucion mexicana (1983), and Los mitos degradados: Ensayos
de comprension de la literature hispanoamericana (1992), and over seventy-five
articles. He is also the editor of the three-volume Historia y critica de la
literatura hispanoamericana (1988-91).
Professor Goic served his department and the University in a number of
capacities, including graduate advisor, head of the Spanish section, member of
the department executive committee, and member of the Rackham Divisional
Board. He directed University foreign study programs in both Spain and Chile.
He will be remembered by generations of Michigan students as a versatile and
learned teacher of literature, exceptionally successful in the direction of
doctoral dissertations. The University honored him by appointment to the
Domingo Faustino Sarmiento Professorship in 1982.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Cedomil Goic
the Domingo Faustino Sarmiento Professor Emeritus of Spanish-American
Literature.
Keki B. Irani, professor of electrical engineering and computer science,
retired from active faculty status on January 1, 1998.
Professor Irani received B.S.E. (Mech.) and B.S.E. (E.E.) degrees, in
1946 and 1947, respectively, from the University of Bombay, and M.S.E. and
Ph.D. degrees, in 1949 and 1953, respectively, from the University of
Michigan. Following employment at Philips Telecommunications Industries
from 1950-56 and serving as a faculty member at the University of Kansas
from 1956-61, he returned to the University of Michigan in 1962 as an
associate research engineer. He was promoted to associate professor in 1963
and professor in 1968.
Professor Irani supervised more than 50 doctoral students, many of whom
have gone on to positions of leadership in academia and industry. As a faculty
member in a rapidly developing field, he was known for developing and
maintaining expertise in many aspects of both computer science and computer
engineering. Over the years, students have praised him for his ability to
present extremely complicated subjects in a clear and exciting manner. In
1992 he received the Teaching Excellence Award from the College of
Engineering.
Within the college, Professor Irani served as chief program advisor for
computer engineering from   1977-86 and from   1990-96, and he was
instrumental in the development of the computer science and computer
engineering curricula. He served as associate chair of the Department of
Electrical and Computer Engineering from 1976-84 and as associate chair of
the Division of Computer Science and Engineering in the newly formed
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from 1986-90,
both critical periods in the evolution of the department.
The author of more than 85 publications, Professor Irani has made
contributions to remarkably diverse areas, including control theory, computer


262




February Meeting, 1998


display and communication systems, computer scheduling, database systems,
computer architecture, parallel computing, artificial intelligence, and programming
languages. He has been elected fellow of the Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers, and has also had a long-standing involvement with the
engineering accreditation organization, the Accreditation Board of Engineering
and Technology.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Keki B. Irani
professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer science.
John H. Jackson, the Hessel E. Yntema Professor of Law and professor
of law, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1997, after an
especially distinguished career of teaching and research.
Professor Jackson received his A.B. degree, magna cum laude, from
Princeton University in 1954 and his J.D. degree from the University of
Michigan in 1959. He practiced law in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, from 1959-61 and
was on the faculty of the School of Law at the University of California at
Berkeley from 1961-65. He joined the University of Michigan Law School in
1966 as professor of law. He was named the Henry M. Butzel Professor of Law
in 1982 and the Hessel E. Yntema Professor of Law in 1983.
From 1988-89, Professor Jackson also served as associate vice president for
academic affairs. From 1973-74, while on leave from the University, he served
as general counsel for the Office of the President's Special Representative for
Trade, and in 1974, he was acting deputy special representative for trade. He
has also held visiting professorships and fellowships at a number of other
institutions, including the University of Delhi, the University of Brussels, and
Georgetown University Law Center.
Professor Jackson is the preeminent American legal scholar on the subject
of international trade, with a special focus on the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade (GATT). He has written nine books, including World Trade and the
Law of GATT, Legal Problems of International Economic Relations, and The
World Trading System: Law and Policy of International Economic Relations, as
well as many articles. He has served on the editorial boards of eight journals,
including the American Journal of International Law, and has served as a
consultant to numerous governmental bodies. He has twice been co-chair of the
ABA Committee on International Trade, and he was the s first chair of the
Section on International Law of the Michigan Bar Association. Most important,
he has inspired several generations of international trade scholars, many of
whom have gone on to significant careers in government and the academy.
The Regents now salute this accomplished scholar and educator by naming
John H. Jackson the Hessel E. Yntema Professor Emeritus of Law and professor
emeritus of law.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported to the
Regents this month.
Degrees. The Regents approved final degree lists for the December 1997
commencements of the various schools, colleges, divisions, and branch
campuses; and they approved changes to previously approved degree lists.
Copies of all degree lists are on file in the Office of the Secretary of the
University.


263




February Meeting, 1998


Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Horning,
seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the
Consent Agenda.
Audited Financial Reports for WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM and
WFUM-TV for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1997; WFUM-TV and
WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM Statements of Support, Revenue and
Expenditures (Operating Fund) for the Years Ended June 30,
1997 and 1996
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted the financial reports and
statements of support, revenue, and expenditures for WUOM/WVGR/WFUMFM and WFUM-TV. He then called on Vice President Harrison.
Michigan Radio Annual Report
Vice President Harrison introduced Mr. Donovan Reynolds, director of
broadcasting for Michigan Radio (WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM), to present the
Michigan Radio Annual Report.
Mr. Reynolds gave a presentation describing what had occurred at
Michigan Radio since the format change to a news and information format in
1996. He observed that since implementation of the new format in July 1996,
the station's accumulated deficit had been eliminated, the number of
listeners had increased by 30 percent, and the budget had increased from
$1.5 million to $2.15 million. The proportion of the budget attributed to
University funds and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting had decreased,
while corporate and foundation support had increased.
Mr. Reynolds reported that some of the major challenges currently
facing Michigan Radio are to provide funding for studio renovation,
replacement of outdated equipment, and replacement of the towers in Grand
Rapids and Flint. This will allow the station to continue to develop its
original programming projects, with the goal of becoming a center for
program production within the public broadcasting system.
Mr. Reynolds noted that Michigan Radio serves as the voice of the
University in other areas of the state by relaying programming featuring
University of Michigan commentators and performances. He thanked the
University for its support during the transition period between the old
format and new format.
Regent Power observed that the achievements of a 30 percent audience
increase and of going from a budget deficit to a budget surplus, both in one
year, are "astonishing."
In response to a request from President Bollinger, Mr. Reynolds described
the formatting change that had occurred in 1996, which involved a change from
classical music and NPR news to a news and information format.
Following further discussion, the Regents turned to a report on WFUM-TV.


264




February Meeting, 1998


Annual Report, WFUM-TV
Mr. Leon Collins gave a report on the University of Michigan-Flint
public television station, WFUM, describing plans for conversion to digital
technology and how this new technology will enhance the station's
programming capabilities.
Following the reports, Regent Horning moved adoption of the audited
financial reports for WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUM-TV for the Fiscal
Year ended June 30, 1997.
Commitment of up to $30 million from the Long Term Portfolio
to Alternative Equity Investments
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents that pursuant to
Regents' policies, two follow-on investments had been made: One of $20
million in R. Chaney & Partners IV, L.P., and the second of up to $10.0
million to Summit Ventures V, L.P.
Emerging Markets Equities
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved Everest Capital Frontier Ltd. as an emerging
markets fund, subject to review of the fund documents by the general
counsel for legal acceptability. Regents Deitch, McGowan, and Newman
were away from the table for this and the following five items.
Alternative Asset Investments
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved commitment of $20.0 million to Crow Family
Realty Partners, L.P., plus payment of management fees, pending favorable
review of the documents by the Office of the General Counsel.
Northwood III Underground Utilities Replacement
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved a revised budget for completion of phase
three of the underground utilities replacement project for the Northwood III
apartment buildings.
S. T. Dana Building Courtyard Enclosure
Regent Power moved approval of proceeding with a project to enclose
the existing courtyard of the S. T. Dana Building, as described in the Regents
Communication. Regent McFee seconded the motion.
In response to a question from Regent Power regarding who would be
doing the architecture work, Executive Vice President Kasdin responded that
the architectural work was being done in-house. Regent Power noted that
Schembechler Hall had been approved without the architectural plans having
been presented to the Board. Following that incident, the Board had adopted
a policy that building plans would never again be approved without the
Board's having reviewed them. He expressed a desire for the Board and the


265




February Meeting, 1998


University community to see the proposed plans for the courtyard enclosure.
Executive Vice President Kasdin responded that he would be happy to
present the plans to the Board, either the next day or at the next meeting.
The vote was then taken, and the motion to proceed with the project to
enclose the existing courtyard in the S. T. Dana Building was approved
unanimously.
University Hospital Wall Protection Replacement and Restoration
Project
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved proceeding with a project for replacement
and restoration of the existing wall protection system at University of
Michigan Hospitals, as described in the Regents Communication.
Renovation and Expansion of the Emergency Department, University
of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
Regent Power moved approval of a project for renovation and expansion
of the Emergency Department at University of Michigan Hospitals, and
authorized submission of a Certificate of Need application to the Michigan
Department of Public Health. Regent Horning seconded the motion. Regent
McGowan returned to the meeting at this point.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Cut-Stone Wall adjacent to Palmer Field
Regent Power observed that there is a cut-stone wall along Huron
Street, immediately west of Palmer Field, which has been deteriorating for a
long time. He noted that this is an eyesore and is dangerous, in that stones
could break off and fall into the road.
Executive Vice President Kasdin responded that the wall and the road are
both owned by the state, and that the state has supplied funding to the city to
repair the wall. He stated that he did not believe the University would be liable
if an accident was to occur as a result of the wall's state of disrepair. He noted
that the city has made a commitment to repair the wall this spring.
1998-99 Residence Hall and Family Housing Rates
Vice President Hartford observed that the University has the seventh
largest campus housing system in the country, housing 11,103 students.
During the fall term, the system operates at 100 percent of capacity, during
the winter term, at 98 percent of capacity, and during the summer term, at 52
percent. She enumerated several areas in which Regents had expressed an
interest over the past year, and addressed what has been done regarding them.
With respect to benchmarking, she reported that an in-depth comparison
had been made with one peer institution, and that staff is working nationally
and within the Big Ten to develop industry standards from which
comparison data can be derived in the future.


266




February Meeting, 1998


On the issue of overcrowding, she noted that plans are underway to
reduce the number of converted triples by half in the fall of 1998 and to
eliminate them entirely in 1999. Office space located in West Quad is also
going to revert back to living space to provide additional rooms.
Vice President Hartford observed that the last comprehensive survey of
student needs was done in 1965. She reported that focus groups have been
conducted this year in preparation for designing a new comprehensive survey
of student needs.
Regarding living/learning communities, a proposal to expand these
initiatives is being presented to the provost's office this month. She noted
that the provost would take the lead in the next phase of this project.
In the area of privatizing and outsourcing, Vice President Hartford
noted that over $4 million per year is currently being outsourced into the
community. She said she and her staff will continue to look at ways to
increase these initiatives, although she cautioned that tax issues affect the
extent to which this can be done.
Regarding the possibility of new residence hall construction, she
reported that a 500-bed traditional residence hall would cost $31.5 million.
Using conventional financing, this would lead to a 5.4 percent increase in
room and board rates. Better use of current space is also being explored.
Vice President Hartford also noted that the Housing Division has
continued to work on reducing costs. She said that $473,000 was cut from
the current budget to arrive at the proposed rates for 1998-99. This was
done while adding an additional $150,000 to the general student residence
reserve, which is used for renovation and facilities.
With respect to long-range planning, Vice President Hartford stated that
housing staff has been working on a set of long-range plans, including an
assessment of the physical condition of each building and the estimated cost
for true renovation. Various scenarios for improving the operation of dining
services are also being evaluated.  Other plans include the creation of
neighborhoods in housing, around which a number of services would be
developed. Vice President Hartford noted that long-range planning in housing
is also dependent on decisions made elsewhere in the University, including the
academic decision of whether to expand living/learning communities.
In summary, Vice President Hartford said that the current budget includes
$477,000 worth of cuts and putting as much as possible into renovation. She
noted that a utilities increase of 6.4 percent and a bargained-for employee salary
increase of 3.0 percent also impacted the proposed rate increase of 2.7 percent
for residence halls and 2.45 percent for apartments. She pointed out that these
proposed increases are below those recommended by the student rate committee.
Vice President Hartford reported that she and her staff are considering
setting up a task force to explore the issues of what the role of housing
should be, which students should constitute the highest priority for
resources, what is the ideal percentage of students that should be housed,
and what types of housing should be offered. Plans also include conducting a


267




February Meeting, 1998


survey of student needs and creating long-range plans for renovation,
construction, and staffing needs. She observed that plans for a new dining
commons had been put on hold during development of the campus master
plan, but noted that such a project would be critical for providing for the
needs of students.
Regent Newman returned to the table at this point.
Executive Vice President Kasdin and his staff responded to questions
about the reasons for increases in utilities rates, pointing out that there had
been significant increases in natural gas rates over the past three years. He
observed that the question of whether the University should consider the
privatization of utilities is being raised, but is not under active consideration
at this point in time.
Regent Power expressed a desire to have a presentation on how utilities
rates and pricing mechanisms operate. Regent Horning also said it would be
helpful to compare the cost of maintaining a central stores operation with
contracting for these services in the private sector. Executive Vice President
Kasdin responded that these questions pose an important intellectual
discipline that would be very important to explore.
In response to a question from Regent Power, Vice President Hartford
indicated that the demand for housing in traditional residence halls exceeds
the supply at the present price level.
Regent Newman asked whether consideration was being given to
establishing a presidential commission to examine the future of housing on
campus, similar to the one that was in operation in 1965. Vice President
Hartford responded that such a task force had not yet been constituted, but
that plans were to establish one in the future.
Regent Power moved approval of the proposed 1998-99 University
residence hall and family housing rates, as described in the Regents
Communication. Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously. Regent Deitch was away from the table for this vote and for
the remainder of the votes taken.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Chad Baily, student, on problems
related to the University's contractual relationship with the Nike
Corporation.
Following Public Comments, the meeting resumed at about 4:10 p.m.
Vice President for Research
President Bollinger presented a proposal for a change in the structure of
the Office of the Vice President for Research (OVPR), such that the vice
president would report through the provost to the president. He noted that
the position would retain the title of vice president, to emphasize its
important role. The reason for the change is to bring together the academic


268




February Meeting, 1998


programming occurring within the OVPR into collaboration with the Office
of the Provost.
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a change in the reporting relationship of the vice
president for research from the president to the provost, and creation of the
position of associate vice president and executive director of research
administration.
Regent Taylor requested that the Regents be provided with an
organizational chart reflecting the key staff appointments in the president's
office over the past year. It was noted that the remaining openings are for
vice president and general counsel and vice president for research.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan
and Integrated Sensing Systems, Inc. (ISSYS)
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved a proposed license agreement between the
University of Michigan and Integrated Sensing Systems, Inc. (ISSYS), under
which a number of inventions developed and owned by the University would
be practiced and commercialized. Regents Power and Deitch were away from
the table when the vote was taken. Because two University employees,
Khalil Najafi and Kensall D. Wise, also hold equity interests in the proposed
licensee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and
Integrated Sensing Systems, Inc., a company in which Khalil Najafi
and Kensall D. Wise hold an equity interest.
2.  Contract terms include:
A license issue fee of $6,700.00, credited against patent cost
reimbursements and royalties otherwise due to the University of
Michigan (other than toward minimum annual royalties).
Royalties to the University of 4% for catheter products and $0.10 for
each sensor for noncathetor products.
Royalties of 25% on sublicense revenue.
Exclusive right to practice and commercialize the technology, subject
to certain rights reserved by the University to practice it for research
and educational purposes and to grant licenses to the Semiconductor
Research Corporation. The University retains ownership.
Minimum annual royalties of $6,700.00 for 1999; $6,600.00 for 2000;
and $2,000.00 for 2001 and each year thereafter during the term of
the agreement.
Term of the agreement is for the life of the patents.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of
University employees, is obligated under the agreement.


269




February Meeting, 1998


3.  The pecuniary interests of Khalil Najafi and Kensall D. Wise arise
from their ownership interests in ISSYS. Khalil Najafi was not an
inventor on any of the subject inventions and thus would have no
potential to share in revenues received by the University. Kensall D.
Wise was an inventor on these inventions and has waived any
personal participation in the sharing of royalties received by the
University from the company.
Proposed Purchase Agreement with On-Line Training, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved a purchase agreement with On-Line
Training, Inc., as a result of a grant to the University from the Michigan
Department of Consumer and Industry Services, under the direction of
Sheryl S. Ulin. Because the president and chief stockholder of On-Line
Training, William J. Anderson, is also a University of Michigan employee and
a consultant on this project, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement will be the Regents of the University of
Michigan and On-Line Training, Inc.
2.  The agreement will be a standard purchase order for one year in the
amount of $3,000. The prime award from the Michigan Department
of Consumer and Industry Services is for one year in the amount of
$60,000. MDC&IS has awarded the grant with the knowledge that a
purchase order would be issued to Dr. Anderson at On-Line
Training. The proposed purchase order will detail the scope of work
and the budget.
3.  Dr. Ulin will not be compensated outside of her University salary for
this project. However, Dr. Anderson, as president and majority
shareholder of On-Line Training, will receive the benefit of
compensation paid to On-Line Training.
Rackham Interdisciplinary Seminars
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously granted approval for the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies to offer interdisciplinary courses through a newly created
program called the Rackham Interdisciplinary Seminars, as described in the
Regents Communication.
Membership of M-Care Board of Directors
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of Gilbert S. Omenn to the M-Care
board of directors, replacing Chandler W. Matthews, who has resigned.
Recommendations for Appointment to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, and on
the recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive
Board, the Regents unanimously approved certain specified appointments to
medical staff membership.


270




February Meeting, 1998


Closed Session Motion
Regent Power made the following motion:
Pursuant to Sections 8(e) and 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202 and 1996 PA 464, I move that the Board of
Regents meet in closed session on February 19, 1998, in the Regents'
Room, for the purposes of consulting with our attorney regarding trial
or settlement strategy in connection with specific pending litigation
(section 8e) and of considering material exempt from discussion or
disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act (section 8h).
Such exempt material consists of a written opinion from the Board's
legal counsel.
Regent Taylor seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then continued in executive session from 4:20 to 5:30 p.m.
Friday, February 20, 1998
The Regents met at 9:45 in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Horning, Deitch, Maynard, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Provost Cantor, Executive
Vice President Kasdin, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President and
Secretary Harrison, Vice President Hartford, Vice President Neidhardt,
Chancellor Nelms, Chancellor Renick, and Interim Co-General Counsel
Barry. Vice President Kinnear was absent.
S. T. Dana Building Courtyard Enclosure
Executive Vice President Kasdin called on Mr. Fred Mayer to present the
plans for the S. T. Dana Building courtyard enclosure. Mr. Mayer reviewed the
history of the building and the courtyard, and showed schematic drawings of
each level of the enclosure, noting the uses that would be made of the space on
each level. He pointed out that changes to the exterior of the building would be
very minor. The Regents expressed satisfaction with the proposed plans.
Technology Transfer Fund
Vice President Neidhardt acknowledged the assistance of everyone who
had contributed to the development of this proposal. Executive Vice President
Kasdin said that this proposal would create a separate technology transfer
fund within the University's funds functioning as endowment. It would
allow for the taking, holding, and disposal of the equity positions resulting
from the University's technology transfer activities.
Regent Taylor moved adoption of the following resolution establishing the
Technology Transfer Fund as part of the funds functioning as endowment of the
University. Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Resolution
Resolved, that a separate Technology Transfer Fund (the
"Fund") shall be created as funds functioning as endowment of the
271




February Meeting, 1998


University, to invest in, hold and dispose of equity positions relating
to the technology transfer and intellectual property development
activities of the University and to enhance the potential for
successful development of technology and intellectual property
created within the University.
Resolved, that the Fund shall be an endowment fund within
the meaning of Section 2(a) of the Uniform Management of
Institutional Funds Act (the "Act") as adopted in Michigan. While
it is anticipated that amounts at least equivalent to the value of
initial deposits to the Fund shall be held, with respect to each
holding, on a long-term basis, the right is reserved to distribute or
expend part or all of the corpus of the Fund as may be deemed
appropriate to further the technology transfer mission or other
purposes of the University.
Resolved, that this Resolution, together with any subsequently
adopted terms governing the Technology Transfer Fund, shall be
deemed to be the gift instrument within the meaning of Section 2(b) of
the Act.
Resolved, that the Fund shall be managed to further the
educational, scientific and charitable purposes of the University of
Michigan, and as is otherwise permitted by the Act and other
governing law.
Resolved, that the associate vice president and treasurer, under
the auspices of the executive vice president and chief financial officer
and the vice president for research, and in accordance with the
management structure as discussed in the Request for Action and
recommendation for this Resolution, shall have the authority
necessary to manage the Fund.
Resolved, that the terms of this Resolution may be amended at
any time by resolution of the Regents, and further the Fund may be
terminated at any time by Regental resolution.
Change in Name of School of Engineering at UM-Dearborn
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved a change in the name of the School of Engineering at
the University of Michigan-Dearborn to the College of Engineering and
Computer Science.
UM-Dearborn General Campus Renovation Project Phase III:
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Building
Chancellor Renick observed that the site and architect for the College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters (CASL) Building had been previously approved
by the Regents. He called on Mr. Doug Hanna to present the design.
Mr. Hanna displayed a map of the Dearborn Campus, noting the site for
the project and describing the placement on the site and access routes. He
displayed drawings of each floor of the proposed design, noting pertinent
272




February Meeting, 1998


details of the floor plan, and also showed a computer-generated rendering
and a model of the completed building.
In response to a question from President Bollinger about the brick
selected for the exterior, Mr. Hanna said that the color was chosen to match
the adjacent buildings. There was a discussion of the window placement, the
rotunda, and various other elements of the design. Chancellor Renick
pointed out that the design was meant to signify the central role of the
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters to the mission of the Dearborn campus.
In response to a question from Regent Newman, Mr. Hanna said that
the design phase is about 15 percent complete. Regent Power noted that in
March 1997, it was established that the design objectives for major new
projects would be submitted to the Regents as items for information in time
to allow approval and receive Regent comment prior to presenting the design
for approval. It was noted that the design objectives were provided at last
month's Regents' meeting.
Regent Deitch expressed concern about the size of this building
compared with other buildings on campus, and about how it blends with the
general "feeling" of the campus.
Chancellor Renick noted that the Regents would be meeting on the
Dearborn campus the following month, and he suggested that during this
meeting, the Regents could visit the site and put the proposed building
design in context with the rest of the campus.
Regent Deitch agreed that this would be a good idea, and moved to table
consideration of the design of the CASL building until the March meeting.
Regent Newman seconded the motion.
Regent McFee raised the issue of the building that is to be constructed
to house the UM-Dearborn's glass museum. It was noted that the Regents
had previously approved the design for this building, but that funds for
construction of this building have not yet been raised. Regent Power
suggested that material describing this building and its relationship to the
rest of the campus be available for the Regents to review next month as well.
During the discussion, the Regents suggested that samples of the brick
and metal to be used for the CASL building be made available as part of the
review of the project next month. Regent Deitch again expressed "major
concerns about this expanse of one-story building that almost seems to be a
disconnected barrier to the other buildings."
President Bollinger suggested that the architects come to the meeting
and explain their thinking about the building's design. Regent McFee
suggested that advance notice be given to Chancellor Renick prior to the
next meeting regarding any further issues the Regents would like to have
addressed about the CASL Building.
Regent Power observed that during his tenure on the board,
presentations about new building projects have been given by University
staff rather than the architect who designed the project. Executive Vice
President Kasdin responded that this has been the historical pattern desired
273




February Meeting, 1998


by past administrations and boards, but that he and his staff would be happy
to change the practice if the Board so desired.
Regent Newman also expressed concerns about the coordination
between the Ann Arbor campus and the branch campuses when designs are
presented for buildings on the branch campuses. Her impression is that Ann
Arbor campus design personnel are not heavily involved in branch campus
projects, even though they present the designs. She noted that to her, the
three campuses are one university, and she would like to have explained how
all the campus designs fit together.
Executive Vice President Kasdin said that he would consult with the
chancellors in order to describe the current process and to identify a way in
which it could work more effectively.
The vote was then taken on the motion to table, and it was approved
unanimously.
Environmental Interpretive Center-Dearborn Campus Wayne County
Agreement
Chancellor Renick informed the Regents that Wayne County had agreed to
contribute $500,000 toward construction of the Environmental Interpretive
Center. The terms of the agreement are described in the Regents
Communication.
Renovation and Expansion of the Emergency Department, University
of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
Executive Vice President Kasdin clarified that the funding for the
project for renovation and expansion of the Emergency Department is
coming from Hospital reserves.
University of Michigan-Flint Professional Studies Classroom
Building
Chancellor Nelms noted that the design objectives for this building had
been approved at the January meeting. He observed that completion of this
facility would mark the first time in the history of the Flint campus that all
programs would be located on one campus. He called on Mr. Doug Hanna to
present the building's design.
Mr. Hanna reviewed all of the programs that would be housed in the
building. He displayed the campus master plan, noting where the building
would be located. He described the site plan and reviewed the plans for each
floor of the building, and displayed renderings of the building's exterior.
Following some discussion, Regent Horning moved approval of the
schematic design for the Professional Studies Classroom Building. Regent
Taylor seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.


274




February Meeting, 1998


Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 10:50
a.m. Regents' expenses for January 1998 totaled $2,976.14. The next
meeting is scheduled for March 19-20, 1998.
Walter Harrison,
Secretary of the University


275




MARCH MEETING, 1998


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, March 19, 1998
The Regents convened at 1:50 p.m. in the Henry Ford Estate-Fairlane
on the Dearborn campus. Present were President Bollinger and Regents
Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McFee, McGowan, Newman, Power, and Taylor.
Also present were Provost Cantor, Executive Vice President Kasdin,
Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President and Secretary Harrison,
Vice President Neidhardt, Chancellor Nelms, Chancellor Renick, and Interim
Co-General Counsel Barry. Vice President Hartford and Vice President
Kinnear were absent.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and thanked Chancellor
Renick for hosting the meeting on the Dearborn campus. He noted the
deaths of Professor Emeritus Daniel Katz, one of the founders of the
Institute for Social Research (ISR); Abramo Fimo "Ken" Organski, professor
of political science and senior research scientist in the Center for Political
Studies at the Institute for Social Research; Beverly Payne, research scientist
emeritus at ISR; and President Emeritus Harlan Hatcher. He also called
attention to the recommendation for adoption of a retirement memoir for
former executive vice president and chief financial officer, Farris Womack.
Monthly Report on Investments
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted the monthly investment
report, noting a change on page two. He said that consideration was being
given to changing the information presented in this report, so that it would
focus on the Long Term Portfolio, with separate reports periodically being
given on the other invested funds.
1997 Report on Investments
Executive Vice President Kasdin suggested changing the timing of this
annual report to the fall, which would allow it to be timed to June 30th fiscal
year data, rather than December 31 of the previous year, thereby allowing for
more meaningful comparisons to other institutions. He said that the next
report would be so timed unless any objections were raised.
He introduced Associate Vice President and Treasurer Norman Herbert.
Mr. Herbert stated that the Long Term Portfolio comprises 80 percent of the
University's $3.7 billion of invested capital. It is the investment portfolio for
the University's endowment funds and other core capital and its purpose is to
provide long-term returns that will support the endowment's objective of
maintaining and enhancing the purchasing power of endowment distributions
in perpetuity. He noted that the overall portfolio is well-diversified and the
investments are managed externally.
Mr. Herbert reported that the strategy for the Long Term Portfolio has
added significant value to the University's Investment Pool and to the


277




March Meeting, 1998


Veritas reserves; for 1997 the total return on the Long Term Portfolio was
16.2 percent and for the past five-year period the total return was 13.8
percent. He commented that while the returns are unusually high from a
historical perspective, they would have been even stronger if the portfolio
had had greater exposure to the conventional U.S. stock and bond markets.
The decision to invest in commodities and maintain an exposure to tactical
asset allocation also hurt performance in 1997. However, he pointed out that
the diversification strategy is designed to produce premium returns over
time, even if in any given year buying the S&P index would have led to a
superior performance.
Mr. Herbert announced that in the coming year, the plan is to take a
fresh look at investment strategies and direction, focusing on the Long Term
Portfolio allocation of assets and perhaps shifting the emphasis from equity
and fixed income investments to a marketable and nonmarketable investment
approach.
Mr. Herbert then introduced Mr. David Thurston and Ms. Mary Cove, the
University's investment consultants from the firm of Cambridge Associates,
Inc., to discuss the Long Term Portfolio's 1997 performance and planned
initiatives for 1998. They distributed a booklet pertaining to their presentation.
Mr. Thurston and Ms. Cove reviewed the Long-Term Portfolio strategy as
described in the handout.  They pointed out that the University had
underperformed the Cambridge Associates Endowment Median by 1.9 percent
in 1997. Mr. Thurston explained that even though it had outperformed in 10 of
the 12 asset classes over one, three, and five year periods, the fund had been
diversifying out of common stock at a time when the S&P 500 had had
extremely favorable returns. The other factor leading to the underperformance
had to do with the Tactical Asset Allocation program, which had been instituted
to reduce the risk of the portfolio and, in retrospect, clearly wasn't necessary in
a rising market.
Ms. Cove reviewed the remainder of the highlights of 1997 and noted
that for 1998, initiatives would include continuing commitments to high
quality alternative asset funds, discontinuing the Tactical Asset Allocation
Program, examining the role and appropriate allocation of fixed income in
the Long Term Portfolio, reviewing the role of "inflation hedges," and
exploring the adoption of a multi-asset policy portfolio.
Executive Vice President Kasdin pointed out that all of these points
underscore the importance of asset allocation. In response to a question
from Regent Power about the underlying assumptions behind the proposed
policy initiatives, he said that there are no implicit assumptions because
other than the suggestion to drop the Tactical Asset Allocation Program,
these suggestions are meant to be viewed as topics meriting exploration, not
as specific policy initiatives.
Regent Power also observed that the Regents need to know on the basis
of what benchmark the University's performance should be fairly evaluated.
Executive Vice President Kasdin agreed, noting that the Board needs to be
put in a position where it has clear recommendations from staff on each of


278




March Meeting, 1998


those issues. He said that the purpose of the current discussion is to identify
an intellectual agenda, rather than to make specific policy suggestions (other
than the continued movement to alternative asset funds and discontinuation
of the Tactical Asset Allocation Program).
Regarding the Tactical Asset Allocation Program, Executive Vice
President Kasdin explained that he favors its discontinuance because there is
no need to further reduce exposure to equities. Mr. Thurston noted that this
program most recently covered only 10 percent of the portfolio. He also
noted that as diversification into alternative assets proceeded, the intent was
to further reduce the Tactical Asset Allocation Program. Therefore, now
that the portfolio has been well diversified with the corresponding decrease
in risk, there is no longer a need for this program.
Mr. Thurston reviewed other comparative data in the Cambridge
Associates handout. In response to a question from Regent Newman about
the benchmarks that will be used from this point onward, Executive Vice
President Kasdin commented that there will be three different benchmarks:
A comparison with other institutions; a customized benchmark (a model
portfolio) that reflects the University's asset allocation strategy; and a
sample 80% S&P500/20% Lehman Government-Corporate. He commented
that at this moment in the history of markets, the question of how long the
bull market will continue is "excruciatingly difficult." He noted that this had
been "a terrific decade of wealth creation," and the challenge ahead is to
maintain self-discipline and make sure that the people who benefit from the
funds and who donate the funds believe that the funds are being managed in
a prudent and appropriate fashion.
Proposed Design of the UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences and
Letters Building
President Bollinger noted the design presentation was being made for
information and discussion purposes only. He called on Chancellor Renick,
who introduced John Pressley, dean of the College of Arts, Sciences and
Letters (CASL).
Dean Presley reported that the college is very excited about having had
the opportunity to design a home for its programs and for the faculty of the
humanities, mathematics, and behavioral sciences departments. Program
planning for the building has been ongoing for many years, and serious
planning began with the selection of the architects, Smith, Hinchman, and
Grylls. He said that the architects have spent hundreds of hours in
consultation with the programming committee and in open forums and other
meetings with faculty, and that the process has been very collegial and
enjoyable throughout. He then introduced the project architects: Mssrs.
Coke Florance, Gary Worthy, Jeff Housman, and Carl Roehling.
Mr. Florance explained that the faculty had established certain goals
with respect to the building: that it underscore the significance of liberal arts
at UM-Dearborn; that it provide a strong identity for the campus; that it be a
student-centered building; that it encourage interaction between students
and among students and faculty; that it be responsive to the campus and to


279




March Meeting, 1998


the specific site; and that it "raise the bar" architecturally for the campus. It
was also important that the building help the campus interact with the
community, and that it at least abstractly express the use of technology to
enhance learning.
Using first a site model and then a building model, he explained the
design concept. He pointed out that the basic strategy was to provide
generous light and views for the public spaces and controlled light and views
for the general classrooms on the ground floor. The latter is necessary
because the use of advanced electronic and technological equipment in the
classrooms requires that rooms be able to be darkened without complicated
and expensive window treatment and screening apparatus. A further reason
for that strategy was the desire to screen out the impact of the large parking
lot on one side of the ground floor and the distraction of the pedestrian
traffic on the other side. Noting the concern that had been expressed
previously about the lack of natural light in the classrooms, he said the
strategy was to control natural light in the classrooms for the reasons
mentioned but to make it very abundant in the public spaces.
Mr. Florance displayed a site plan and several renderings of the
building, and reviewed the floor plans for each floor. He pointed out that the
building would be constructed of brick, curtain wall, and metal panels. The
coloration will be consistent and compatible with the general coloration of
the other buildings on the campus. The ground floor level would use the
same brick as the University Mall, while smoother, slightly darker, brick
would be used for the upper stories. He pointed out that the curtain wall is
intended to reflect the grove of trees opposite the building.
Regarding the concept of the structure as a "signature building," Mr.
Florance cautioned that this concept implies the personal signature of an
individual. He said the architects were interested in creating in a positive
identity and positive image for the campus through a building that is
memorable and perceived to be of high quality. This is done through the
classic architectural devices of height, stature, sculptural massing, and the
use of complimentary materials. He pointed out that since much of the
classroom activity will occur after dark, the rotunda will be lit up at night in
order to enhance and reinforce the building's impact.
Mr. Florance explained that the building's design is currently at the
schematic level, at which about 15 percent of the design process has been
completed. He concluded that the architects believe they are "on the way to
a memorable building that will linger in the public mind." The hope is that
students will make use of the building between classes, rather than sitting in
their cars as is currently a common practice.
There followed a discussion about programmatic and architectural
features of the building. Regarding the issue of the view of the first-floor roof
from the four-story wing, it was explained that the number of people actually
seeing the roof would be very limited. It would only be seen by people
standing at the window sill on the second floor. It was also noted since the last
presentation, more windows had been added to the four-story building.


280




March Meeting, 1998


In response to the concern expressed by the Regents about lack of light
in the classrooms, Dean Presley pointed out that during the initial public
forums, students expressed the desire for sound-proof classrooms with easily
controlled light, as the heavy use of computers, projection devices, and other
technology in these classrooms will require darkened rooms. In fact, he said
that a survey of the entire Dearborn campus faculty about how the teaching
and learning environment could be improved revealed that a major desire
was to renovate the existing classrooms so that they can be darkened. The
intent was not to keep the students in the dark while reserving the light
spaces for faculty.
Regent Deitch raised the issue of how programmatic needs are balanced
with aesthetic concerns in the design of such buildings. He agreed that many
of the programmatic needs have been addressed, but expressed that the
building is not as attractive a building as it might be. He said he would like
to be supportive of the achievement of the campus's programmatic needs,
while recognizing that "this is a hundred-year decision."
Mr. Florance responded that the architects believe they have struck
such a balance, noting that the intention was to break "out of the box." He
said that design cues were taken from the site, from the idea of a cross axis,
and creation of a strong central space, and pointed out that opinions about
the resulting design are by nature, subjective.
Another of the architects, Mr. Worthy, cautioned against focusing too
much on the exterior shape, noting that for a building to be memorable, it
must be experienced. He pointed out that architects strive to strike a
balance between meeting programmatic needs while achieving a memorable
building. He believes that once it is experienced, the building will be
perceived as very memorable.
Dean Presley noted that certain elements of the design, including the
serpentine wall and the rotunda, reflect the history of Dearborn. In addition,
as a practical matter, the master plan calls for buildings to face inward
toward the green part of the campus, away from the parking lots. While this
building complies with that, at the same time, it projects an interesting
facade toward the parking lot. He said that while the constant movement in
the parking lot will create a distraction, at the same time it will be evident
from the parking lot that sunlight will be bathing the interior and it will be
evident that activities are occurring in the building. Thus, consistent with
other campus buildings, the building looks inward, but also presents a facade
outside, making a different statement from the other buildings.
Regent McGowan commented that the strength brought to this project by
the involvement of so many people "leaves us, at least externally, with at best,
a compromise." She expressed grave concern that the many programmatic
elements featured in this building were incorporated with no overarching
vision, and that this is reflected in the design.
Regent Taylor commented that the building looks fine to him. He
observed that, while as with any structure, there may be some elements of
the design that he might not like, he believes that this building is "quite


281




March Meeting, 1998


lovely."  He said that he is "baffled" by the concerns that have been
expressed about this one building in the University's entire complex of
campuses, and expressed that he would be willing to cast his vote for
approval right now.
Regent Horning expressed agreement with Regent Taylor. He asked the
architects whether from a financial basis, it would have been more cost
effective to design one five-story building instead of two linked buildings.
Mr. Jeff Hausman, another of the architects, responded that a cost
analysis revealed the current design is less expensive than constructing one
five-story building and explained why that is the case. Mr. Florance also
pointed out that the master plan calls for four stories as the maximum
desirable building height. One four-story building would contain a very large
volume of totally interior space with little exposure to daylight.  The
architects opted instead for a building that was more responsive to the
landscape while responding to programmatic needs.
Regent Newman observed that this opportunity to interact with the
building's architects has been "incredibly helpful," and thanked the
architects for making the presentation. She noted that courtyards tend to
get used for recreation, and wondered whether the noise level generated by
the courtyards had been taken into account in the design. It was noted that
the windows surrounding the courtyards would be double glazed, which
provides a very good sound barrier.
Regent Maynard stated that she had been very impressed by the process
with which the building was thought about and planned on the Dearborn
Campus, and that it was unfortunate that this discussion with the building's
architects had not occurred at the previous meeting. She expressed hope
that this experience would change the way the Board examines building
projects in the future. She said that she would be ready to vote today, noting
that she believes the building will suit the programmatic needs of the
UM-Dearborn very well, and that it will blend very well with the other
buildings.
Regent Taylor observed that if the protocol by which the Board reviews
building projects is changed, he hoped it would not lead to an inordinate
amount of time being spent in these endeavors. He said that the current
situation indicates a flawed process which should be fixed.
Regent Deitch stated that he is "completely comfortable with one
person's aesthetic judgment being different than another's." He agreed that
it had been helpful to interact with the designers of the building. However, he
noted that in terms of time management, reviews of major building projects
"are the only hundred-year decisions we make." He believes it is important to
underscore the permanence of these decisions and the responsibility entailed,
and that they deserve to have a lot of time and thought spent on them.
Regent Taylor agreed, but noted that "this is not the way to make a
hundred-year decision." He said that he did not mean to minimize the
importance of the project, but rather noted that the process by which these


282




March Meeting, 1998


decisions are made needs to be changed, so that buildings are not designed at
Regents' Meetings.
Regent McFee stated that she is satisfied with the design of the building,
and that the features pointed out during the discussion had been extremely
helpful. She said that she had heard many comments about the color of the
brick on the Dearborn campus and requested that the color of the building's
exterior brick be reconsidered.
The architects observed that they understand the seriousness of the
Regents' concerns, but they have given the project a great deal of thought
and are confident that what they have done is appropriate.
Regent Power noted that there are a number of methods that can be
used to control light in classrooms other than the one that had been
presented. Regarding the process, he observed that the process by which
buildings are conceived, programmatically considered, and designed at the
University had been deeply flawed for many years. He expressed the opinion
that "there are systemic ways of dealing with the question of how do we get
good buildings designed to meet programmatic requirements in limited
periods of time," and that much of the current discussion is driven by the
University's failure to do this up to now. Another underlying concern, he
believes, is that the Regents are not very satisfied in general with the
architecture used on the Dearborn campus. That is why to him, the most
successful parts of the design of the CASL building have to do with the
serpentine form and the rotunda, and the least successful parts are the
rectilinear elements.
Regarding the question of process, President Bollinger pointed out that
the comments made were not meant as criticism of the University's staff.
Rather they relate to expectations and process on an institutional level. He
said that in order to allow both the architects and Board additional time to
reflect on the discussion, he would not call for a vote today but would expect
the issue would be ready to be presented and voted upon at the April meeting.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Edward McNamara, Wayne County
executive, on UM-Dearborn and Wayne County partnerships; and Michael
Guido, mayor of Dearborn, on UM-Dearborn's role in the City of Dearborn.
Friday, March 20, 1998
The Regents met at 9:40 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, and Taylor. Also present were Provost Cantor, Executive Vice
President Kasdin, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President and
Secretary Harrison, Vice President Neidhardt, Chancellor Nelms, Chancellor
Renick, and Interim General Counsel Barry. Regent Power, Vice President
Hartford, and Vice President Kinnear were absent.


283




March Meeting, 1998


Consent Agenda
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and began consideration
of the consent agenda.
Minutes. The minutes for the February 1998 meeting were submitted.
Reports. It was noted that the Investment Report had been discussed the
previous day. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted the Plant Extension
Report. Co-General Counsel Barry submitted the Litigation Report. Vice President Neidhardt submitted the report of Projects Established for February 1998.
Voluntary Support. The Regents received the Report on Voluntary
Support for February 1998.
William J. Abraham, Jr., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
224 shares of Fort James Corporation common stock
for the Foley & Lardner Fund in the Law School........................ $ 10,339
Sharyl Ackerman, Birmingham
160 shares of Dell Computer common stock
for the Alan T. Ackerman Fund in the Law School........................ 15,381
Airdrie Foundation, Deerfield, Illinois
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy............... 20,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the Biophysics Research Division............... 120,960
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  49,314
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  19,500
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for the American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education Fellowship
in  the College of Pharmacy............................................  15,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts................................................  179,980
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the Medical School............................... 50,000
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School...................................... 15,000
American Suicide Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  17,027
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 70,000
Anonymous Donor
800 shares of Warrentech Corporation common stock
for the Peckham Fund in the Clements Library............................ 9,350
Karl G. Bartscht, Ann Arbor
1,200 shares of Superior Consultant Holdings Corporation common stock
for the Carl and Josephine Bartscht Scholarship in the College of
Engineering.........................................................  34,500
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
383 shares of various corporate common stock
for research in the Medical School........................ 25,197
Betz Industries, Grand Rapids
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics and
for the Richard A. Flinn Scholarship and other support in the College
of Engineering.......................................................  42,000
Maurice S. inkow, Bloomfield Hills
150 shares of Automatic Data Processing common stock
for  gifts pending  designation............................................  9,206
Russell S. Bishop III, Incline Village Nevada
700 shares of Ottawa Financial Corporation Warrants common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 12,939
Frederick A. Blake, Lawrenceville, New Jersey
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000


284




March Meeting, 1998


William J. and Claire W. Bogaard Charitable Fund, Clifton Park, New York
for support of the Law  School..........................................  56,000
James M. Bourg, Mission, Texas
100 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics and
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...................... 7,816
Elizabeth H. G. Brown Trust
945 shares of Banc One Corporation common stock
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  50,292
Ian R. N. Bund, Ann Arbor
1,500 shares of Ventana Medical Systems common stock
for the Nichols Arboretum Visitor Center in the School of
Natural Resources and Environment.................................... 29,484
Leo Burnett Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Leo Burnett Scholars Award Fund in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  16,614
Campbell Fund, Ann Arbor
500 shares of TriMas Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 17,141
James A. Campbell Trust
6,190 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics and
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School.......... 314,004
William C. Cassebaum, Bangor, Pennsylvania
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 5,000
Chemical Bank, New York, New York
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,000
Mildred Christopher Estate
for support in the School of Education...................................  10,000
Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for the building fund in the School of Engineering and
the Environmental Study Area Fund at the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn...................................................  46,500
CoCensys, Enc., Irvine, California
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  10,000
Ralph E. Colton, Chicago, Illinois
for the Gerard Summer Undergraduate Research Program in the
Medical School..........................                            100,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  9,033
Loren S. Daniels Trust
for support in the School of Dentistry....................................  6,478
Dayton Hudson Corporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Office of Career Development in the School of Business
Administration and for the Career Planning and Placement Office........... 20,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute................................ 5,000
Detroit Association of University of Michigan Women, Detroit
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship.....................................  5,000
Morris D. Dunn, New Vernon, New Jersey
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 12,500
Epic Sports, Inc., Michigan Leather Helmet, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School........... 30,250
Flint Rock & Gem Club, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint........................... 10,010
Foley & Lardner, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the Foley & Lardner Fund in the Law School...                     85,000
Eleanor and Edsel Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn...................................................  30,500
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for instructional support in the College of Engineering...................... 7,800
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration and for employee matching gifts......... 118,936
Forest Health Services Corporation, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics................................ 8,000


285




March Meeting, 1998


Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  18,977
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Stanley D. Frankel Entrepreneurship Fund in
the School of Business Administration and for the
Frankel Fellowships in Jewish Communal Service Fund in
the  School of Social W ork..............................................  31,500
Frey Foundation, Grand Rapids
for W UOM /W VGR....................................................  18,750
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the
Medical School and for the University Musical Society.................... 19,000
General Motors Corporation Corporate Offices, Detroit
for scholarships in the College of Engineering............................ 22,500
General Signal Corporation, Stamford, Connecticut
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of
Business Administration and the College of Engineering................... 50,000
Robert M. Ginn, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Class of 1948 Engineering Scholarship in the College
of Engineering........................................................  5,000
Glaxo Wellcome, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  10,697
June Gantz Gralnick, West Bloomfield
200 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for support in the Medical School, in memory of Lilian Cooper Cohen........ 14,194
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for the Research Center for Group Dynamics in the Institute for
Social Research......................................................  50,000
Greenwall Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  25,000
James and Nancy Grosfeld Foundation, Southfield
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in the
M edical School.......................................................  20,000
Hercules, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering...........  8,000
Hermelin Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 5,000
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for support in the School of Business Administration..................... 100,000
Instrumentation Laboratory, Ann Arbor
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts.............................................................  25,000
Richard C. Jelinek, Aspen, Colorado
3,000 shares of Managed Care Solutions, Inc., common stock
for the Health Management and Policy Alumni Gift Fund in
the  School of Public Health............................................  21,375
S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc., Johnson Wax, Racine, Wisconsin
for the Graduate Fellowship and Scholarship Fund in
the School of Business Administration...................................  10,000
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education.................................  171,859
Elliot Juni, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School and
for the Isadore Bernstein Fund in the School of Public Health............... 5,100
Kalamazoo Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 19,000
Kapnick Foundation, Naples, Florida
for the Harvey Kapnick Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  35,000
Ira R. Katz, La Jolla, California
1,551 shares of IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation common stock and
607 shares of Home Depot common stock
for the Joan and Ira Katz Graduate Student Support Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 102,333
Jin Ouk Kim, Seoul, Korea
for support of the Law  School..........................................  10,000
Lisa F. Knight-Giuliani, Matawan, New Jersey
for support in the Department of Athletics............................... 10,000


286




March Meeting, 1998


KPMG Peat Marwick Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
for support in the School of Management at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn and for employee matching gifts........................ 7,275
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New  or
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  45,045
Norman J. Leven Family Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Marilyn and Norman Leven Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration.......................................  5,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 100,000
McGraw Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for employee matching gifts............................................. 7,000
Michigan Grape & Wine Council, Lansing
for WUOM/WVGR..................................................... 5,000
Michigan Women's Athletic Association, Ann Arbor
for the South Ferry Field Athletics Pressbox Fund in the
Department of Athletics...............................................  10,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering.......... 5,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute in the College of Engineering........ 15,000
Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories, Cambridge, Massachusetts
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  20,000
Morris-Sweetland Living Trust
10,500 shares of Amerindo Technology Growth Fund mutual fund
for the Gayle Morris Sweetland Writing Center and other support
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 312,675
National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, Inc.,
New York, New York
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering.......... 10,500
National Glaucoma Research, Rockville, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  6,250
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  15,000
Cecil J. Nesbitt, Ann Arbor
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  20,000
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Westmont, Illinois
for the Center for Excellence Fund in the School of Dentistry............... 50,000
Harry and Olive O'Connell Management Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics............................... 23,191
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Rosemont, Illinois
for research in the Medical School...................................... 7,703
Podhurst Family Supporting Foundation, Inc., Miami, Florida
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  10,000
PPG Industries, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Libby Prusa Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...................... 5,000
Radiological Society of North America R & E, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in the Medical School.......................................  5,000
Winifred Ramfjord, Ann Arbor
300 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock and
300 shares of Wachovia Corporation common stock
for the Sigurd P. Ramfjord Endowed Visiting Lectureship in
the  School of Dentistry................................................  35,588
Research Fund of American Otological Society, Inc., In dianapolis, Indiana
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute............................... 10,000
David L. Roberts, Old Lyme, Connecticut
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Royal Bank of Canada, Montreal, Canada
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the
School of Business Administration......................................  15,000
Thomas F. Russell, Boynton Beach, Florida
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and for WFUM-TV......... 6,400
SAE International, Warrendale, Pennsylvania
for the Seating Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation
Research  Institute...................................................  135,000


287




March Meeting, 1998


Patricia C. Schemm Charitable Unitrust
for the Ferdinand R. Schemm Fund in the Medical School.................. 39,411
Edwin D. Scott, New York, New York
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,000
Seagate, Scotts Valley, California
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the
School of Business Administration......................................  15,000
Seigle Family Foundation, Elgin, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Alan C. Shackelford, Madison, Wisconsin
for the Department of English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................  5,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering and
for the Shell Companies Foundation Graduate Aid in
Physics Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 11,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
5,000 shares of Ogden Corporation common stock
for the Women's Softball Locker Room Fund in the Department
of Athletics and for gifts pending designation............................ 139,844
Grant Silverfarb, West Bloomfield
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center...................................  10,000
John Franklin Stone Trust
for the John F. Stone Fund in the Medical School.......................... 8,825
Super Radiator Coils, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support in the College of Engineering.................................  8,500
W. David Tarver, Little Silver, New Jersey
100 shares of International Business Machines Corporation common stock
for the Fred and Louise Tarver Fund in the College of Engineering........... 9,997
Taubman Charitable Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Alfred Taubman  Scholarship.....................................  39,174
TG North America Corporation, Troy
for research  in the College of Engineering................................  19,600
John R. and Georgene M. Tozzi Foundation, Ross, California
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
United Way of Muskegon County, Muskegon
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................... 21,273
University Microfilms International, Ann Arbor
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............ 7,000
University of Michigan Alumni Association, Ann Arbor
for the Critical Difference Endowment at the University of
M ichigan-Flint.......................................................  69,008
Clara D. VanAuken Trust
for support of the Law  School.........................................  140,000
James A. VanSweden, Washington, DC
118 shares of various corporate common stock
for the James A. VanSweden Endowed Scholarship in the College
of Architecture and Urban Planning..................................... 7,591
Ellen C. Wagner, Ann Arbor
356 shares of Campbell Soup Company common stock
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center, in memory of Richard Epstein........ 20,481
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School and
for the Monet Exhibition Fund in the Museum of Art...................... 35,000
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the building fund in the College of Pharmacy.......................... 47,000
Walter J. Weber, Jr., Ann Arbor
5,144 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Walter J. Weber Jr., and Linda M. Abriola-Weber
Professorship in the College of Engineering............................. 177,387
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for the Community Service Learning Gift Fund........................... 50,000
Whitaker Foundation Arlington, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering............................... 125,442
Samuel P. Willits, Barrington, Illinois
1,400 shares of Anicom, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Engineering................................  22,925


288




March Meeting, 1998


Erwin B. Wittus Trust
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Irma M. Wyman, St. Paul, Minnesota
145 shares of Honeywell, Inc., common stock
for student aid and other support in the Center for the
Education  of W omen.................................................  10,136
Albert F. Yee, Ann Arbor
for the Professor and Mrs. Albert F. Yee Fund in the College
of Engineering................................................. 10,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
De-Comp Composites, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
composites lay-up materials for the Solar Car
Robert L. Frost, II, Ann Arbor
a family collection of books, letters, photos and other documents for the Special
Collections Library
Hans Neukomm, New York New York
a lithograph entitled, 'Paul Taylor" by Alex Katz for the Museum of Art
Lillian G. Ostrand, Chelsea
manuscripts, photographs, and related materials for the Clements Library
Linda Kulma Russow, Longwood, Florida
a sculpture for the Museum of Art
John Schloss, New York, New York
two northern dynasty twin figures for the Museum of Art
Jane Lewis Smith, Washington, DC
manuscripts for the Clements Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Ansul, Inc., Marinette, Wisconsin  Jacob M. Price, Ann Arbor
Lorraine Ciesinski, Monroe          Stephen A. Resnick, Cazenovia, New York
Beth A. Colaner-Kenney, Ann Arbor   Eric Stein, Ann Arbor
Robert S. Cox, Ann Arbor            Robert M. Stern, Ann Arbor
John C. Dann, Dexter                Robert Stewart, Carson City, Nevada
Carole Harmon, Ann Arbor            Stuart L. Thayer, Seattle, Washington
Taki Mack, Sterling Heights        John D. Wheeler, East Tawas
Herman L. Miller, Ann Arbor         Marina V.N. Whitman, Ann Arbor
Mehdi Nemazi, Livonia               Clarence Wolf, Gladwyne, Pennsylvania
Personnel     Actions.     Provost Cantor     called  attention   to  the
recommendation for the appointment of Executive Vice President Omenn as
professor of internal medicine, with tenure, professor of human genetics,
without tenure, and professor of public health, without tenure. She also
noted the recommended appointment of George Kenyon as dean of the
College of Pharmacy.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Omenn, Gilbert S., M.D., Executive Vice President for Medical Affairs, also appointed
Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Human Genetics, without
tenure, Medical School, and Professor of Public Health, without tenure, School of
Public Health, September 4, 1997
Williams, Fred E., Ph.D., Professor of Management, with tenure, and Dean, School of
Management, University of Michigan-Flint, five year-three month term, April 1, 1998


289




March Meeting, 1998


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the date indicated
Richards, Julia E., from Assistant Professor of Epidemiology to Associate Professor of
Epidemiology, without tenure, three year term, September 1, 1997
REAPPOINTMENTS OF
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1998
Pijanowski, Eugene, reappointed Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education, School of Art
and Design, one year term
Vincent, James H., Ph.D., Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health and Chair,
Department of Environmental and Industrial Health, reappointed Chair, Department
of Environmental and Industrial Health, five year term, June 1, 1998
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective March 20. 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Bree, Robert L., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Internal
Medicine, without tenure
Knysh, Alexander D., reappointed Chair, Department of Near Eastern Studies, three year
term, July 1, 1998
Meyer, Charles R., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
March 1, 1998
Pearlman, Mark D., Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, also
appointed Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure
Ross, Donald A., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, also appointed Associate
Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, without tenure
Schneider, Carl E., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, also appointed Professor of
Internal Medicine, without tenure
Vinovskis, Maris A., A. M. And H. P. Bentley Professor of History and Professor of History,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Professor of
Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy, April 1, 1998
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Collins, Francis S., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Human
Genetics, without tenure, government service leave extended, April 4, 1998-April 3,
1999 (original leave approved April 4, 1997-April 3, 1998)
Weisbuch, Robert, Professor of English Language and Literature, personal leave extended,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999 (original leave, September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998)


290




March Meeting, 1998


OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Wicha, Max S., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, also appointed the Distinguished
Professor of Oncology, five year term, March 1, 1998
Yocum, Charles F., Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Professor of Chemistry, without
tenure, also appointed the Alfred S. Sussman Professor of Biology, five year term,
September 1, 1998
Personnel reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
College of Engineering
Aggarwala, Rajendra K., M.S., Lecturer in Civil and Environmental Engineering, two
year-five month term
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
De Jong, Nanette T., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Afroamerican and African Studies, four month term
Long, Tammy M., Lecturer I in Biology, four month term
Sanchez, Samuel, B.A., Lecturer II in Spanish, Residential College, three month term,
February 1, 1998
Medical School
Passaro, Erasmo A., Lecturer in Neurology, one year term, February 2, 1998
Wira, Raymund L., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, one year term, March 15, 1998
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Valentino, Nicholas A., from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Communication Studies,
two year-five month term
Medical School
Fendrick, A. Mark, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, also appointed
Assistant Professor of Health Management and Policy, School of Public Health, one
year term, July 1, 1997
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Guerrieri, Mark J., from Lecturer in Political Science to Assistant Professor of Political
Science, one year-four month term
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Medical School
Allen, Richard J., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and
Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics, January 1-December 31, 1998


291




March Meeting, 1998


Bassett, Leslie R., Albert A. Stanley Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of Music
(Composition), January 1-April 30, 1998
Freter, Rolf G., Professor Emeritus of Microbiology and Immunology, February 1, 1998 -January 31, 1999
Gikas, Paul, Professor Emeritus of Pathology, July 1, 1997-June 30, 1999
Kornblum, Sylvan, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Medical School, and Professor
Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-November 30, 1998
Olsen, Ronald H., Professor Emeritus of Microbiology, January 1-December 31, 1998
UM-Flint School of Management
Davis, Dale A., Associate Professor Emeritus of Management and Accounting,
February 18-April 30, 1998
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Engineering
Vinh, N. X., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, retirement furlough,
January 1-December 31, 1998
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bissell, R. Ward, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, extended sick leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998
Peacor, Donald R., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998
Medical School
Chamberlain, Jeffrey S., Associate Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, October 1, 1997-March 31, 1998
Domino, Edward F., Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1997-August 31, 1999
Kurachi, Kotoku, Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 1998
Silver, Dorit A., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 1998
School of Music
Froseth, James O., Professor of Music (Music Education), with tenure, School of Music, and
Lecturer in Education, School of Education, scholarly activity leave, September 1 -December 31, 1998
School of Nursing
Algase, Donna L., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-December 31, 1998
Pender, Nola J., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Research and Professor of
Nursing, with tenure, sabbatical leave, March 15-September 15, 1998
UM-Dearborn College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Gelderloos, Orin G., Professor of Biology and Environmental Studies, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-April 30, 1998
Prentis, Jeffrey J., Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1998
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Colish, Julie E., Lecturer in English, extended sick leave, January 23-May 31, 1998
Hakam, Imane A., Associate Professor of French, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998
Marston, Wilfred G., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1997


292




March Meeting, 1998


CANCELLATION OF
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
University of Michigan Flint School of Management
Bokemeier, L. Charles, Associate Professor of Accounting, sabbatical leave canceled
(previously reported effective January 1-May 31, 1998)
CORRECTIONS TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Kivelson, Valerie A., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998, and duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1998
(previously reported as sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998)
Medical School
Hanash, Samir M., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, May 1, 1997-March 31, 1998 (previously reported as effective
May 1-December 31, 1997)
Weber, Wendell W., Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1996-February 28, 1998 (previously reported effective
September 1, 1996-December 31, 1997)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
School of Education
Womack, Farris W., Professor of Education, without tenure, retired, February 28, 1998
College of Engineering
Coppola, Vincent T., Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering, term complete,
May 31, 1998
Ebbini, Emad S., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, term
complete
Eisley, Joe G., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, retired
Messiter, Arthur F., Jr., Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Professor of Aerospace Engineering and
Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, retired
Sichel, Martin, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, retired
Yey, Gregory, Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure, retired,
April 30, 1998
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ault, Heather S., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, term complete, April 30, 1997
Brandner, Janine P., Lecturer I in Biology, term complete, April 30, 1997
De Milne, Lilia B., Lecturer I in Spanish, term complete, April 5, 1996
Fader, Daniel N., Professor of English, with tenure, retired
Freiband, David M., Lecturer I in Psychology, term complete, April 30, 1997
Humesky, Assya K., Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, retired,
May 31, 1998
Kaeding, Thomas A., Lecturer II in Physics, term complete, April 30, 1997
Kane, Virginia C., Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, retired
Kim, Michael J., Lecturer II in Korean, term complete, April 30, 1997
Levey, Zachary M., Lecturer II in Political Science, term complete, April 30, 1997
Lough, Thomas S., Lecturer II in Sociology, term complete, April 30, 1997
Mayman, Martin, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retired, December 31, 1997
Mihic, Sophia J., Lecturer II in Political Science, term complete, April 30, 1997
Perez, Jose V., Lecturer II in Spanish, Residential College, resigned, January 1, 1998


293




March Meeting, 1998


Phillips, Ann T., Lecturer II in Psychology, term complete, December 31, 1997
Qui, Shanping, Lecturer I in Chinese Language, term complete, April 30, 1997
Rickly, Rebecca J., Lecturer III in English, resigned, May 31, 1998
Schubnell, Michael S. G., Lecturer II in Physics, term complete, April 30, 1997
Seidler, Ingo, Professor of German, with tenure, retired, December 31, 1997
Vainshtein, Olga B., Lecturer II in Women's Studies, term complete, December 31, 1997
Ward, Andrew H., Lecturer I in Psychology, term complete, April 30, 1997
Wellin, Elaine S., Lecturer I in Sociology, term complete, April 30, 1997
Medical School
Barg, Neil L., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, resigned,
January 31, 1998
Brunberg, James A., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Associate Professor of
Neurology, without tenure, and Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure,
resigned, February 10, 1998
Held, Philip J., Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, and
Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, without tenure, School of Public
Health, resigned February 6, 1998
School of Music
Lewis, Ralph B., Professor of Music (Theory), retired
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Polakowski, Kenneth J., Professor of Landscape Architecture, with tenure, retired,
May 31, 1998
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Habib, Izzeddin S., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, retired, April 30, 1998
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Bommarito, Ellen M., Lecturer in English, deceased, January 24, 1998
Retirement memoirs.        Provost Cantor submitted four retirement
memoirs.
Walker E. Fesmire, professor of accounting in the School of Management
at the University of Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on
June 30, 1997, after a most productive career as a teacher and researcher.
A native of Ohio, Professor Fesmire received his B.S. degree in business
administration (1957) from The Ohio State University, his M.B.A. degree (1960)
from Xavier University, and his Ph.D. degree (1982) from the University of
Mississippi. He is a certified public accountant in both Indiana and Michigan.
From 1960-82, he taught successively at Valparaiso University, Northern Illinois
University, Ferris State College, Bradley University, Northern Michigan
University, University of Mississippi, and Eastern Michigan University. He
joined the University of Michigan-Flint faculty in 1982 as an associate professor,
was granted tenure in 1987, and was promoted to professor in 1991.
In 1983, Professor Fesmire became the faculty advisor of the Student
Accounting Club. Through his guidance, the club petitioned and received a
charter as Eta Xi Chapter of Beta Alpha Psi in 1988. Through the years, he
has continued to lead this group and has been recognized nationally as an
outstanding faculty advisor. The chapter has also twice been named a
Superior Chapter by the national Beta Alpha Psi organization in (1989 and
1990). These honors resulted in two student scholarships and a $5,000 award.
Professor Fesmire has been an active member of the American Institute
of Certified Public Accountants, the Michigan Association of Certified Public
Accountants, the National Association of Accountants, the Institute of


294




March Meeting, 1998


Internal Auditors, and the American Accounting Association. He has twice
been the recipient of the Faculty Achievement Award for Distinguished
Service at the University of Michigan-Flint (1987 and 1994) and has also been
awarded the Michigan Accountancy Foundation Doctoral Grant. He is a
member of Beta Gamma Sigma and has served as president of its Flint
chapter; he is also a member of the accounting fraternity, Beta Alpha Psi,
University of Mississippi Chapter.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated
service by naming Walker E. Fesmire professor emeritus of accounting.
Martin Mayman, professor of psychology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and clinical psychologist, Psychological Clinic, Institute
of Human Adjustment, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1997.
Professor Mayman received his B.S. degree (1943) from City College of New
York, his M.S. degree (1947) from New York University, and his Ph.D. degree
(1953) from the University of Kansas. From 1951-66, he was the director of
psychological training at the Menninger Foundation in Topeka, Kansas. He was
also a faculty member at the Topeka Institute for Psychoanalysis from 1960-67
and a visiting professor at the University of Colorado and the University of
California at Berkeley (1965-66). He completed psychoanalytic training at the
Topeka Institute for Psychoanalysis, one of the very few psychologists at that
time to be accepted into the program. He came to the University of Michigan as
a visiting professor in 1966 and was named professor of psychology in 1967. He
served as the associate director of the Psychological Clinic from 1967-73 and as
co-director (with Joseph Adelson) from 1974-81.
Professor Mayman's early research focused on personality assessment,
psychological testing, and projective techniques. He continued to research
psychological testing, authoring or co-authoring 28 papers on the topic, many of
which have become classics in the field. He later became interested in shame
and its role in development and in psychopathology. Professor Mayman was a
caring clinical supervisor who influenced generations of clinical psychology
students with his clinical acumen and his extraordinary sensitivity.
Professor Mayman was an advisory editor for a number of journals and
has served on the executive committees of a number of professional
organizations. He is a fellow of the American Psychological Association (APA)
and the Society for Projective Techniques. He has received the Distinguished
Contributions Award from the Society for Personality Assessment, the
Distinguished Service to the Profession of Psychoanalysis Award from APA,
Division 39, and the Distinguished Contribution to Psychology Award from
the City College of New York. He was invited to present the third Marguerite
Hertz Memorial Lecture in Atlanta, Georgia in 1995.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Martin Mayman
professor emeritus of psychology.
Ingo E. Seidler, professor of German, retired from active faculty status
on December 31, 1997.
Professor Seidler received his B.A. degree from Cornell University in 1951
and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Vienna, Austria, in 1953. He came
to the University of Michigan as an instructor in 1957 and was promoted to
assistant professor in 1960, associate professor in 1964, and professor in 1968.
He has also held visiting professorships at Indiana University, the American
295




March Meeting, 1998


Seminar in Berlin, the University of Toronto, Washington University (St.
Louis), State University of New York at Buffalo, the University of Freiburg,
and Northwestern University.
Professor Seidler's teaching and research cover broad areas of modem
German, Austrian, and comparative literature (English, American, and French),
especially poetry and drama in the 19th and 20th centuries; criticism; literary
theory; aesthetics; philosophy; and literature. He has published extensively on
Nietzsche, Rilke, Heidegger, literary translation, Kafka, Benn, Brecht, Canetti,
and many other important topics. His translations of modem German poetry
have appeared in numerous American literary magazines and journals.
Eighteen graduate students have penned doctoral dissertations under his
direction, and Professor Seidler has served on more than seventy dissertation
committees. He enjoys the high regard of colleagues throughout the discipline,
both here and abroad, for his erudition, theoretical sophistication, political
conscience, gentle irony, and, not least, his personal warmth and friendship.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his outstanding
contributions by naming Ingo E. Seidler professor emeritus of German.
Farris W. Womack, professor of education, School of Education, and
former executive vice president and chief financial officer, retired from active
faculty status on February 28, 1998.
Professor Womack received his B.A. Degree from the University of
Central Arkansas in 1955 and his M.Ed. and Ed.D. degrees from the
University of Arkansas in 1958 and 1972, respectively. From 1971-75, he
served as director of institutional research at Arkansas State University. In
1975, he moved to the University of Arkansas, where he was the director of
budget planning   and  development until 1977, vice    president for
administration from 1977-79, and executive vice president from 1979-81;
concurrently, he was an associate professor of higher education from 1975-79
and full professor from 1979-83. In 1981, Professor Womack became the
director of the Arkansas Department of Finance and Administration. In
1983, he moved to the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill as vice
chancellor for finance and professor of higher education. He was appointed
controller of the State of North Carolina in 1987 and joined the University of
Michigan in 1988 as vice president and chief financial officer and professor of
education. His title was changed to executive vice president and chief
financial officer in 1993.
Within the School of Education, Professor Womack contributed to the
graduate program in higher education by teaching courses in business and
finance, by mentoring graduate students, and by serving on dissertation
committees. He published articles in such journals as Planning for Higher
Education, Research in Education, and Educational Research. He has made
numerous presentations to professional organizations and has served as
consultant-evaluator to such groups as the North Central Association of
Colleges and Schools Commissions of Institutions of Higher Education and
the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.
During his tenure as executive vice president and chief financial officer,
the University's endowment grew fivefold, to more than $1.7 billion, and the
institution became the only public university to earn an Aal credit rating.
Within the business and finance arena, he undertook a number of initiatives


296




March Meeting, 1998


aimed at enhancing diversity, recognizing the contributions of staff,
enhancing staff development, and instituting the principles of Total Quality
Management.
The Regents now salute this faculty member and administrator for his
dedicated service by naming Farris W. Womack professor emeritus of
education and executive vice president and chief financial officer emeritus.
Memorials.   Provost Cantor submitted two memorial statements.
Regent Deitch noted the passing of Mark Nickerson, a former member of the
faculty whom he believed had been treated unfairly during his tenure at the
University.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness the death of President Emeritus Harlan H. Hatcher on
February 25, 1998, at the age of 99.
Serving as Michigan's eighth president, from 1951-67, Harlan Hatcher
skillfully led the University during a period of epic change. President Hatcher
envisioned a Michigan destined to serve the nation and the world and worked
with the Regents and faculty to realize that vision. He established the
administrative structures that allowed the University to respond effectively to
phenomenal growth in enrollments and research activity. His presidency was
marked by an unprecedented high level of construction on the Ann Arbor
campus and the purchase and initial development of the North Campus site,
as well as the establishment of the Flint and Dearborn campuses. President
Hatcher was one of the first to see the need for private funds to support
public education; as a result, the University of Michigan became the first
public institution to establish a permanent fundraising unit and to launch a
comprehensive capital campaign.
President Hatcher always sought to nurture academic excellence in faculty
and students.   Annual awards to distinguished professors and the
undergraduate Honors Program were instituted during his administration, and
the Opportunity Awards Program was created to identify and recruit to campus
African American students from disadvantaged backgrounds. In 1959, President
Hatcher headed a State Department educational mission to the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, and in 1962 he led another trip to South America. In 1966,
he participated in the U.S.-Japan Conference on Cultural and Education
Exchange in Tokyo.
Born in Ironton, Ohio, in 1898, President Hatcher received bachelor's
and Ph.D. degrees from The Ohio State University in 1922 and 1927,
respectively. He served as professor of English and vice president at Ohio
State before assuming the presidency of the University of Michigan. He was a
veteran of World War I and a reservist in World War II.
President Hatcher maintained his broad intellectual interests and vitality
throughout his retirement, lecturing broadly, remaining active in numerous
cultural and civic groups, and serving on the state Judicial Tenure
Commission. He also remained an avid golfer, often shooting his age when he
was well into his 80s.
As we mourn the loss of this courageous University president, successful
scholar, and remarkably optimistic and gracious man, our condolences go to
his wife, Anne; his daughter, Anne Berenberg; his son, Robert, and


297




March Meeting, 1998


daughter-in-law, Sherry; and his grandchildren, Jessamyn Hatcher, Juliet
Hatcher, Daniel Berenberg, and Thomas Berenberg.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with great
sadness the death March 6, 1998, of Abramo Fimo Kenneth Organski,
professor of political science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
senior research scientist in the Center for Political Studies, Institute for
Social Research.
Professor Organski was an internationally known student of world
politics. His work on the impact of economic growth on international conflict
led to pioneering research on the causes of major wars and on the relationship
between the organization of governments and their ability to mobilize
resources to achieve policy objectives.
Professor Organski was born in Rome in 1923. He came to the United
States in 1939 as his family fled the anti-Jewish laws of the Mussolini regime.
After service in the U.S. Army, he earned three degrees from New York
University: B.A. (1947), M.A. (1948), and Ph.D. (1951). He joined the faculty
of the University of Michigan in 1965 where he remained as professor of political
science and as senior research scientist in the Institute for Social Research from
1969 until his death. He was honored as a guest of the University of Bologna on
the occasion of that university's 900th anniversary and was awarded the
Cavalieri dela Republica by the government of Italy. His books included World
Politics; Population and World Power, co-authored with his first wife, Katherine
Davis Fox; Birth, Death and Taxes, written with several of his students; Stages
of Political Development; The War Ledger, written with Jacek Kugler; and The
Thirty-Six Billion Dollar Bargain.
Professor Organski's intellectual accomplishments were recognized by
numerous honors at the University of Michigan, including the Distinguished
Faculty Achievement Award. In 1992, he was awarded a lifetime achievement
award by the Conflict Processes Section of the American Political Science
Association for his contributions to the study of international conflicts.
Kenneth will be remembered not only for his intellectual depth and originality,
but also for his ebullience, love of language, human warmth, and gift for
friendship. He was a devoted husband, father, and grandfather. Our deepest
condolences go out to his wife, Patricia Joan Bard; his daughter, Elizabeth
Anna Organski-Horn and her husband Steven Horn; his son, Eric Fox
Organski; his grandson, Steven Horn, Jr.; his brother, Guido Organschi, of
Litchfield, Connecticut; and generations of devoted students.
Degrees. There were no actions with regard to degrees.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded
by Regent Horning, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
Executive Vice President Omenn brought forth the recommendation for
the appointment of Larry Warren as executive director of the University of
Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers and associate vice president of the
University of Michigan Health System.


298




March Meeting, 1998


On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved the appointment of Larry Warren as executive
director of the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers and
associate vice president of the University of Michigan Health System.
Mr. Warren thanked the Regents for recognizing him by making this
appointment. He noted that the Hospitals and Health Centers and Health
System are "recognized as a jewel in this country," and said that the dean
and he are intending to move the institution "to a level of performance
excellence that is unprecedented in its history."
Supplemental Information to the Certified Audited Financial
Report of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of the
University of Michigan for the Year Ended June 30, 1997
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted for information purposes
Supplemental Information to the Certified Audited Financial Report of the
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of the University of Michigan
for the Year Ended June 30, 1997.
Appointment of Auditors for 1997-98
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted a recommendation for the
reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors for 1997-98. He noted
that this would be the twelfth year of this engagement. He pointed out that
while it is good practice to rotate auditors, this year would be an especially
difficult time to do so because of the implementation of the PeopleSoft
project. He noted that the auditors had been told last year that their
engagement would last for three more years, but that he has informed them
that the question of their reappointment next year would be held open for
the time being.
Regent Deitch stated that he strongly encourages Executive Vice President
Kasdin to make the change next year.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously approved the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as
auditors for 1997-98.
UMHS Paid Time Off Program
Executive Vice Presidents Kasdin and Omenn submitted a communication
clarifying that the Paid Time Off Program applies only to employees of the
University of Michigan Hospitals, M-Care, and the Michigan Health Corporation, and not to employees of the University of Michigan Medical School.
Consulting Agreement with Claes Fornell International (CFI) Group
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Deitch, the
Regents unanimously approved an agreement between the University of
Michigan and Claes Fornell International (CFI) Group, formerly Anjoy
Research, Inc. Because Claes G. Fornell is both the owner of CFI Group and
a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the state of


299




March Meeting, 1998


Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and the
CFI Group.
2.  The terms of the contract include that CFI continues to design and
conduct customer satisfaction studies in 1997 with completion of
BBA and MBA student satisfaction reports, totaling $15,772.45.
Projects for 1998 are three customer satisfaction studies, diversity
historical analysis, and an alumni qualitative study totaling $40,500.
The contract will be for the years 1997 and 1998; totaling $56,222.45.
3.  Claes G. Fornell's pecuniary interest arises from his position as owner
of the CFI Group.
Purchasing Contract with Medox Electro-Optics, Inc.
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Medox Electro-Optics, Inc.
Because Gerard A. Mourou is a partial owner and member of the board of
directors of Medox Electro-Optics, Inc., and also a University of Michigan
employee, this purchasing contract falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the purchasing contract will be the Regents of the
University of Michigan and Medox Electro-Optics, Inc.
2.  The terms of the contract to support University of Michigan research
include the purchase of one (1) each unique G/F/HV Spec Cable
assembly set - Grid/filament/H/V w/cable, quotation #Q80122-M1 dated
January 21, 1998 for $300 as indicated on UM purchasing requisition
#223393.
The duration will be until March 31, 1998.
3.  Professor Mourou's pecuniary interest arises from his position as
partial owner of Medox Electro-Optics, Inc.
Purchasing Contract with Rebus Planning Associates, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Rebus Planning
Associates, Inc. Because Samuel J. Meisels is both a University of Michigan
employee and the owner of Rebus Planning Associates, Inc., this purchasing
contract falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchasing contract will be the Regents of the
University of Michigan and Rebus Planning Associates, Inc.
2.  The terms of the contract to support a University of Michigan
research grant will be the purchase of the following Work Sampling
System items: 250 Teacher Education Handbooks @ $5.50 each, and
250 Omnibus Guidelines @ $5.50 each, for a total of $2,750.
The duration of the contract will be until March 31, 1998.


300




March Meeting, 1998


3.  Dr. Meisels' pecuniary interest arises from his position as owner of
Rebus Planning Associates, Inc.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Michigan State
University
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved an agreement between the University of
Michigan and Michigan State University. The purpose of the agreement is to
provide a subcontract to Michigan State University to support continuing
collaborative activities there involving the project, "Risk and Coping in
Children of Alcoholics. Because one of the collaborators, Dr. Hiram Fitzgerald,
is an employee of Michigan State University and also an adjunct professor at
the University of Michigan (without compensation), this agreement falls under
the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and
Michigan State University.
2.  Terms of the agreement include a total subcontract of approximately
$1,062,837 to cover the period October 1, 1997, through December 31, 2002.
The University standard subcontract provisions will apply.
Reassignment of the University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual
Property
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved reassignment of the intellectual property
"Back-saver Brace for Lead Aprons in Radiology and Interventional
Cardiology," to the inventor, David M. Williams, M.D. Because Dr. Williams
is both a University of Michigan employee and a party to the agreement, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and David
M. Williams.
2.  Under the terms of the agreement, there will be payment to the
University on a quarterly basis of 15 percent of royalties, equity, or
other value received by Dr. Williams through subsequent marketing
and licensing of the invention. There will be no use of University
facilities or services without appropriate approvals.
Implementation of Regents' Policy on Research Grants, Contracts,
and Agreements, FY97
Vice President Neidhardt submitted the annual report on implementation
of the Regents' Policy on Research Grants, Contracts, and Agreements for Fiscal
Year 1997. He reported that policy implementation is proceeding very smoothly.
University of Michigan Health System
Executive Vice President Omenn reported that as noted at the last
meeting, the Ford Motor Company had just announced a new health plan that
301




March Meeting, 1998


is to be made available to salaried employees and retirees, called Partnership
Health. This health plan represents a new initiative for the University of
Michigan Health System.
Michigan Stadium Scoreboards and Video Production Facility
Executive Vice President Kasdin called on Mr. Tom Goss, athletic director,
to present a request for approval of a project to replace the Michigan Stadium
scoreboards with video scoreboards and to install a video production facility at
Crisler Arena that would be used to produce video images on the scoreboards.
Mr. Goss displayed an illustration of the stadium with the current
electric scoreboards. He then showed illustrations of both internal and
external views of the stadium with the proposed new video scoreboards,
which would be placed at the north and south ends of the stadium. He called
on Mr. Tom Cecchini, director of marketing and communications in the
Department of Intercollegiate Athletics, to describe the proposed scoreboards
and video production facilities.
Mr. Cecchini described the enhancements that would be possible with
the new scoreboard and videoboard, noting that the project also includes an
enhanced sound system. He pointed out that the video production facility
would also allow highlights of football games and other events held in the
stadium, such as commencements, to be broadcast on the Internet.
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that the proposals had
received the support of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics. Mr.
Goss also noted that Jose-Marie Griffiths, the executive director of the
Information Technology Division, had been involved in the project to ensure
that it fits in with the University's plans in this area. Ms. Griffiths observed
that these projects will bring the Athletics department into the Internet
world. The technology plans described in these proposals are entirely
consistent with what is going on elsewhere at the University.
Mr. Goss stated that consistent with past practices, there will be no
commercialization inside the stadium, including on the scoreboards.
Regent Deitch moved approval of the Crisler Arena video production
facility. Regent McGowan seconded the motion. He then moved approval of
the project for replacement of the Michigan Stadium scoreboards, as described
in the Regents Communication. Regent McGowan seconded that motion.
Regent Deitch commented that these projects will be "wonderful
enhancements to life at Michigan," and that they have the potential to improve
the commencement experience as well as the experience of attending football
games. He said he was pleased that there would continue to be no commercial
sponsorship within the stadium. He also praised the capabilities that will be
made possible by the new production facility, especially the ability to publicize
non-revenue-producing sports.
In response to a question from Regent Horning about the display on the
back side of the stadium scoreboards, Mr. Cecchini stated that on the outside
of the scoreboard on the south side of the stadium, there will be a message


302




March Meeting, 1998


board that will allow for the posting of scores, notices of upcoming events,
and other communications.
The votes were then taken on each of the motions, and they were
approved unanimously.
Trademark Licensing
Mr. Goss observed that there had been a lot of discussion recently about a
proposal made by Duke University regarding licensees who do business in
other countries. He noted that the University of Michigan and over 100 other
universities are affiliated with the Collegiate Licensing Company (CLC). CLC,
in conjunction with the University of Michigan and other institutions, is in the
process of developing its own code about this issue. He said the Regents would
have an opportunity to review the code before it is finalized.
Regent McGowan said that she had read the code of conduct adopted by
Duke University with enormous interest. She expressed the opinion that
rather than waiting for all of the institutions within the CLC to agree to a
code, the University of Michigan should be a leader in promulgating such a
code. Mr. Goss replied that the University is writing its own code in
conjunction with CLC. He reiterated that because the issue affects the entire
institution, the Regents will have an opportunity to review it before it is
adopted. He said that the decision of whether the University's code is
adopted with the CLC or independent of it is beyond the purview of the
Athletics Department.
Regent Deitch observed that Duke University is also a member of CLC.
He pointed out that he has had "serious, long-standing, concerns about the
University's licensing policy," and that he has never been comfortable with
the University's contract with Nike Corporation.  One reason for that
discomfort is the fact that Nike's labor practices may fall short of the
standards maintained by the University. He said that "it is important for us to
take a leadership role on principle on these issues," particularly since the
University receives more royalties from its licensed products than any other
institution. Therefore, he strongly urged the University to take an affirmative
role, to the point of terminating contracts as a matter of public policy when it
becomes "impossible to get appropriate buy-in to our values from our
licensees."
Mr. Goss said that a draft of the proposed code would be forwarded to
the Regents in the near future.
Revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 11.13 (The Medical School: The
Executive Faculty)
Provost Cantor observed that the proposed revision would grant
membership on the executive faculty of the Medical School to primary
research scientists and clinical II faculty members.
She observed that the purpose of the revision is to be responsive to a
vote in April 1997 by the governing faculty of the Medical School to expand
the executive faculty to include primary research scientists. A similar vote in


303




March Meeting, 1998


May of 1986 had expanded voting membership on the executive faculty to
clinical II faculty. However, due to an oversight, it was discovered in 1997 that
this change to the bylaw had never been recorded. The current proposal,
therefore, is to update the bylaw by including both revisions. Provost Cantor
noted that clinical faculty have been voting as members of the executive
faculty since 1986, and the revision is intended to correct the oversight made
that year and add primary research scientists.
She explained that membership on the executive faculty in the Medical
School for clinical II faculty and primary research scientists means that these
staff members have voting rights, but cannot be elected to the University's
Faculty Senate or the Medical School Executive Committee. Provost Cantor
clarified that clinical II faculty are faculty members hired by the Medical
School with more than 50 percent appointments; they all teach and all work
within a clinical setting. She noted that nine of the ten schools and colleges
with clinical track II faculty have already granted voting privileges to these
individuals.
Provost Cantor observed that there is a growing sense within the
University that a discussion is necessary about the composition of the faculty
and the definition of governing faculty rights and privileges. She said that
discussions were begun last fall within various faculty and administrative
bodies across the University about "the full sense in which we appoint and
evaluate and appropriately privilege different parts of the governing faculty
of the University and the different roles that people play." These discussions
will take place over an extended period of time and should be independent of
the current proposal for revision of the bylaws regarding the Medical School
faculty.
Vice President Neidhardt clarified that primary research scientist
faculty have always been members of the University Senate.
Provost Cantor called on Professor Lou d'Alecy, chair of the Senate
Advisory Committee on University Affairs (SACUA) to present the point of view
of SACUA on this issue.
Professor d'Alecy thanked the Board and the administration for giving the
faculty an opportunity to speak in opposition to a proposed action request.
Speaking from prepared remarks, he urged the Regents to table or otherwise
delay this action for the following reasons: the Bylaws are the foundation of
university governance and should not be changed without full and considered
discussion; this discussion should occur before making changes in the Bylaws;
no urgency has been publicly expressed for making this revision; elected
faculty governance is concerned that this action will set a "damaging pattern"
that ultimately could eliminate tenure-track faculty throughout the University.
Furthermore, Professor d'Alecy stated that since 1990 there has been a
tenfold increase in clinical II non-tenure-track appointments just within the
Medical School, and that with ten schools and colleges now offering similar
tracts, there is a potential for marked erosion in the percent of tenure-track
faculty in these units. The concern with clinical track faculty is that they
primarily practice medicine and operate under a substantially different


304




March Meeting, 1998


incentive structure, and faculty do not believe that practicing medicine is the
equivalent to being an executive faculty member.
Professor d'Alecy said that faculty disagree with the opinion that the
proposed change simply codifies existing practice. Rather it increases the
rights and privileges of the two supplementary tracks and potentially gives
clinical track faculty full, University-wide executive faculty status. Finally,
he questioned the validity of the 1986 vote upon which the current action
request is based. He concluded by requesting that the Regents delay
consideration of the bylaw change.
Following some discussion, President Bollinger said that he was sorry
there was disagreement between SACUA and the administration on this
issue. However, the administration agrees that there are serious issues
about the composition of the faculty and the relationship of tenure-track to
non-tenure-track faculty and the privileges that go along with this. He
reiterated that a group of deans is studying this issue and that Executive
Vice President Omenn has requested that Medical School faculty also
consider it. He said that the question is whether to delay and disrupt
standard practice in the Medical School or to codify what has been standard
practice now but initiate a general discussion of the issues.
In response to a question from Regent McFee, Provost Cantor said that
this bylaw change will have no impact on any other school or college but the
Medical School.
Jayne Thorson, assistant dean for faculty affairs in the Medical School,
described the role of clinical track faculty in the Medical School. She noted
that most are clinical teachers who are not involved in research and who
work off-site, and therefore are not appropriately placed in the tenure track.
However, they play a critical role in the school.
Regent Deitch moved approval of a change in Regents' Bylaw Section
11.13 as described in the Regents Communication.     Regent Maynard
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The following is the text of the new bylaw:
Sec. 11.13. The Medical School: The Executive Faculty
The executive faculty shall consist of all faculty members of the rank
of professor, associate professor, and assistant professor, clinical professor
II, clinical associate professor II, clinical assistant professor II, senior
research scientist, senior associate research scientist, and assistant
research scientist. and those instructors of one or more years' standing
approved by a majority vote of the professorial staff of the Medical School.
It shall perform the duties assigned to the governing faculties of other
schools and colleges.
New Degree Program for the School of Health Professions and
Studies, UM-Flint
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved a new degree program, "Bachelor of Science
305




March Meeting, 1998


in Radiation Therapy," to be offered in the School of Health Professions and
Studies at the University of Michigan-Flint.
Official Enrollment Count Dates for the University of MichiganFlint Campus
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Deitch, the
Regents unanimously approved a change in the official enrollment count
dates for the Flint campus, as described in the Regents Communication.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. Regents'
expenses for February 1998 totaled $1,598.79. The next meeting is scheduled
for April 21, 1998.
Walter Harrison,
Secretary of the University


306




APRIL MEETING, 1998


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Tuesday, April 21, 1997
The Regents convened at 1:45 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McFee, McGowan,
Power, and Taylor. Also present were Provost Cantor, Executive Vice President
Kasdin, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President and Secretary
Harrison, Vice President Hartford, Vice President Kinnear, Vice President
Neidhardt, Chancellor Nelms, Chancellor Renick, and Interim Co-General
Counsel Barry. Regent Newman was absent.
Resolution in Honor of 1997-98 Hockey Team
Regent McGowan invited Coach Red Berenson, Captain Matt Herr, and
Assistant Captains Bill Muckalt and Marty Turco to join her at the podium.
She then read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan applaud and congratulate
the Michigan Wolverine hockey team and its head coach, Gordon "Red"
Berenson, for winning the 1998 NCAA championship - Michigan's
second hockey championship in three years.
Originally thought to be in a rebuilding phase, the hockey team
earned a 34-11-1 record and demonstrated repeatedly the results of
teamwork, perseverance, and determination by pulling out victories
in close games. Never was this more evident than in the electrifying,
sudden-death overtime win on April 4 at the Fleet Center in Boston. That
night, as they had throughout their college careers, the team's five
seniors provided exemplary leadership. These highly-motivated student
athletes also finished the season as the most victorious class in
Michigan hockey history, with 133 wins and two national championships.
Coach Berenson, himself a former Michigan standout, proved once
again that he is one of the University's most outstanding coaches. He
encourages his players to excel in the classroom and demonstrates
through his words and actions that the education and growth of his
players are his highest priority. As a result, since he took over in 1984,
Michigan's graduation rate has ranked near the top of college hockey,
while at the same time, Coach Berenson's teams have also won two
national championships, gone to the NCAA Tournament eight consecutive times, and made six Final Four appearances in the past seven seasons.
The Regents now salute the entire hockey team, including Captain
Matt Herr and Assistant Captains Bill Muckalt and Marty Turco, as
well as Coach Berenson and his staff, for their exhilarating national
championship season.


307




April Meeting, 1998


There followed a round of applause, after which Coach Berenson thanked
the Board for its support. Captain Matt Herr described the emphasis on
academics that is an invaluable part of being on the hockey team, noting that
players are expected not only to attend class, but to get good grades. He said
that students on the hockey team feel like people really care about them, and
he gave Coach Berenson much of the credit for the success of the program. He
also recognized the support of the academic leaders of the institution and
Athletics Director Tom Goss for contributing to the program's successes.
Report of Child Care Task Force
Provost Cantor noted that the Child Care Task Force, chaired by Dean
Ada Sue Hinshaw, had been commissioned in 1996 and charged with the
responsibility of assessing the needs of the University community with
respect to child care services. She thanked the task force members for their
thorough study and excellent report and noted that she would be presenting
the task force's specific recommendations.
Provost Cantor stated that the University administration is very
committed to the issue of child care, and it will be trying as much as possible to
implement the recommendations according to a staggered schedule. One of
the short-term recommendations is that the University increase its contributions
to the child care scholarship fund to $150,000 annually. Provost Cantor said
that she is in support of this recommendation, and that it will be incorporated
into the 1998-99 budget recommendation. The second recommendation is to
implement a child care program for sick children of employees, known as "Kids
Kare." This program is currently being operated on a pilot basis, but the
University will continue it on a permanent basis at an estimated cost of
$40,000 per year. The recommendation includes a sliding fee scale with a subsidy
for lower income faculty and staff families on the Ann Arbor campus. In
addition, a one-year pilot project to include children of students in this program
will also be initiated to assess need and feasibility.
To help offset the high cost of child care, the University will initiate a
program of a sliding scale subsidy to the existing University-run child care
centers to make it possible for the centers to offer reduced fees to low income
faculty and staff.
The final short term recommendation was to improve the availability of
data on children of faculty, staff, and students. The hope is that further data
collection on child care needs can be done in conjunction with implementation of the PeopleSoft project.
Regarding the Task Force's long term recommendations, the University
will pursue the possibility of finding external funding to expand the North
Campus child care center to provide more space for infants and toddlers.
The other demand recognized by the task force was to improve the off-hour
child care options using existing child care facilities. The administration would
like to support this recommendation, but the complex operational issues it
raises require further study.
The task force also enumerated several policy recommendations that have
strong support across the University community. These include increase the
308




April Meeting, 1998


number of accrued sick days that employees can use to care for sick children.
Provost Cantor said that she would be recommending that changes to the
current policy be put in place by July 1999. Another recommendation was to
encourage deans to consider part-time academic programs whenever possible,
and Provost Cantor noted that she does intend to do this.
Regent McGowan commented that she was delighted to receive the Child
Care Task Force Report. She observed that with the report and the recommendations that are to be implemented, "this university has come a long way
since a very astute and caring sophomore led us on a course to be able to
make some sense out of the child care provisions that the University of
Michigan offers to students, faculty, and staff." She noted that this report
and the provost's recommendations are "extremely heartening" to a great many
people.
Regent Maynard concurred, noting that although there is still a lot of
work to be done, it is exciting that progress is being made. Regent Deitch agreed,
noting that he didn't thin ththat an institution that promotes inclusiveness
and advancement for women can really mean that unless it addresses head
on and in a committed way the issue of childcare. He expressed that it is
important for the University to be a leader in this arena.
Provost Cantor observed that there is widespread support for these
recommendations throughout the campus.
Report of the Committee on the Economlic Status of the Faculty
(CESF)
President Bollinger called on Professor Thomas Dunn, chair of the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty, to present the committee's
annual report. Professor Dunn reviewed the report, copies of which were
distributed at the meeting.  He noted that the report had two parts:
recommended guidelines for faculty salaries and direct compensation, and
benefits issues for faculty and staff as a whole.
Professor Dunn reported that CESF believes there are principles which are
applicable to both the determination of direct compensation and of benefits.
These are that compensation should be based on merit; the elements
comprising merit within each unit should be written and disseminated; the
process of determining compensation should be open, without compromising
individual privacy; and that meaningful communication should occur on a
regular basis between unit administration and individual faculty regarding
their performance as it relates to their compensation.
Regarding benefits, Professor Dunn reported that CESF believes that there
are issues relating to the conflicts of interest between the University's roles
as an employer and as a service provider, and that these conflicts should be
recognized and dealt with openly. CESF also believes that with the increasing
decentralization of the University, the wishes of faculty and staff will be even
more important than they have been in the past. He noted that specific recommendations are contained in the Regents Communication.


309




April Meeting, 1998


In response to a question from Regent Power, Professor Dunn outlined
the process by which the CESF's recommendations are reviewed by the
faculty senate and by the administration.
Michigan Student Assembly Biannual Report
Vice President Hartford called on Mike Nagrant, outgoing president of
Michigan Student Assembly.    Mr. Nagrant reviewed the goals and
accomplishments of his presidency over the past year, including holding
down tuition, increasing the hours of operation of the Harlan Hatcher
Graduate Library, and advocating for a student regent. He thanked the
Regents and the administration for the support he'd received during his
term.
Mr. Nagrant then introduced the newly elected MSA president, Trent
Thompson. Mr. Thompson expressed excitement at the prospect of serving
as MSA president for the coming year. He reviewed specific projects that
MSA had initiated and successfully concluded during the past year, and then
enumerated how the University would benefit by having a student regent.
He concluded his remarks by describing new projects planned by MSA for
1998-99.
Regents' Resolution in Honor of Thomas C. Kinnear
Regent Power called Vice President Kinnear to the podium and read the
following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan commend Thomas C.
Kinnear as he completes his term as vice president for development
on May 3, 1998.
Since assuming this position in September 1994, midway into the
Campaign for Michigan, Vice President Kinnear has provided strong
and effective leadership for what turned out to be the most successful
fundraising drive in University history and the largest ever completed
by an American public university. He quickly became acquainted with
development staff, both in the central development office and in the
schools and colleges, and, traveling from coast to coast, he met with
hundreds of volunteers and donors. By the time the campaign concluded
in September 1997, $1.41 billion had been raised. Since the conclusion
of the campaign, he has been working to establish a long-term
program to continue the University's fundraising momentum.
During his tenure as vice president for development, Vice President
Kinnear oversaw the planning and implementation of a comprehensive
new computer and information management system for development
staff. A superb manager of resources and people, he has fostered open
communication and teamwork among development staff and has
created strong partnerships among the central development office, the
deans and staff in the schools and colleges, and more than 1,500 fundraising volunteers.


310




April Meeting, 1998


Prior to his appointment as vice president for development, Vice
President Kinnear served as senior associate dean in the School of
Business Administration. He was named the D. Maynard Phelps
Professor of Business Administration in 1992 and was appointed the
Eugene Applebaum Professor of Entrepreneurial Studies in December
1997.
The Regents now express their deepest appreciation to Thomas C.
Kinnear for his outstanding service as vice president for development,
and wish him well as he returns to his role as a distinguished faculty
member in the School of Business Administration.
There followed a standing ovation. Vice President Kinnear responded
that it had been a tremendous honor for him to have had the opportunity to
serve the University, noting he had met "the most fantastic people" within
the past four years, including faculty, staff, students, and alumni.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Consideration of the March 1998 minutes was deferred until
the next meeting.
Reports.     Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports of
investments, plant extension, and a quarterly report of noncompetitive
purchases over $5,000 from single sources. He noted that reports on the
Long Term Portfolio would continue to be submitted on a monthly basis, but
reports about the other portfolios would be submitted on a less frequent
schedule.
Co-General Counsel Barry submitted the Litigation Report. Vice President
Neidhardt submitted a report on Projects Established for March 1998.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Kinnear submitted the monthly
report on voluntary support. He observed that gifts for 1997-98 are on pace
to set an all-time record.
AAE Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Dentistry............... $ 10,000
Alcan Rolled Products Company, Oswego, New York
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  7,500
Alcon Laboratories, Inc., Fort Worth, Texas
for research  in the Medical School.......................................  6,250
George E. Amendt Trust
1,500 shares of Electronic Data Systems common stock and
1,000 shares of Kellogg Company common stock
for the Amendt-Heller Endowment for Newborn Research in
the  Medical School............................                 113,641
American Association of Orthodontists, St. Lou, is, Missouri
for research in the School of Dentistry................................... 7,500
American Automobile Manufacturers Association, Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation
Research  Institute...................................................  201,250
American Axle & Manufacturing, Detroit
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute.....................................................  5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the Biophysics Research Division................ 52,622


311




April Meeting, 1998


American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the  Medical School......................................  50,000
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for support in the College of Pharmacy..................................  13,750
American Foundation for Urological Disease, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the  Medical School.......................................  7,667
American Gastroenterological Association, Thorofare, New Jersey
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  12,500
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  179,053
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School..................................... 141,080
American Lung Association National Office, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................... 67,500
American Society for Quality Control, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for research in the School of Business Administration...................... 63,948
American Society of Clinical Oncology, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  15,500
American United Life Insurance Company Charitable Trust, Indianapolis, Indiana
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  8,522
Anonymous Donor
for the Thomas G. Long Endowed Professorship in the Law School.......... 25,000
Applebaum Family Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Eugene Applebaum Professorship in the School of
Business Administration.............................................  600,000
Robert C. Armbruster, Chicago, Illinois
200 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 14,825
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the Institute of Gerontology.......... 74,996
Arts Midwest, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the University Musical Society......................................  20,000
Bedding Plants Foundation, Inc., Lansing
for the Department of Natural Sciences at the University
of M ichigan-Dearborn..................................................  5,500
Alfred Berkowitz Foundation, Birmingham
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................... 50,000
Alfred Berkowitz Philanthropic Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................... 60,000
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
for support in  the Medical School........................................  5,000
Marvin and Betty Borman Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Betty and Marvin Borman Faculty Award Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................  15,000
Robert P. Briggs, Elk Rapids
for the  C em ents Library...............................................  5,000
Eric V. and Linda Brown, Jr., Fund, Kalamazoo
for the Eric V. Brown Family Scholarship in the Law School................. 6,000
Ford R. Bryan Trust
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse,
the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................................  10,000
Leo Burnett Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business
Administration and for the Michigan Leadershape Institute
in  the College of Engineering..........................................  13,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Morrisville North Carolina
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  20,000
James A. Campbell Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics and
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School.......... 105,617
Cancer Research Foundation of America, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School.......................................   8,000
Cancer Research Institute, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  7,375
CaP Cure, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................ 150,000
David E. A. Carson, Bridgeport, Connecticut
5,000 shares of People's Bank Bridgeport common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration.................. 191,875
312




April Meeting, 1998


John Carver, Brighton
for the Environmental and Global Change Education
Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 8,500
William C. Cassebaum, Bangor, Pennsylvania
for the Fred L. Leckie Law Scholarship and Loan Fund
in the Law School and for the Museum of Art..............              5,200
Centerior Energy Community Program, Cleveland, Ohio
for employee matching  gifts............................................  5,100
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea
for the Chelsea Miling Company Scholarship in the School
of N ursing..................................................    20,000
Chevron Products Company, San Ramon, California
for the Minority Engineering Program and other support
in the College of Engineering........................................... 6,000
Chiron Corporation, Emeryville, California
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................ 100,000
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Citicorp Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 33,500
Civitas Initiative, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Social Work................................. 20,000
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Group of Ann Arbor
for support in  the School of Dentistry....................................  5,000
Consumers Energy, Jackson
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  9,200
Cooper Industries - Wagner Lighting Division, Chesterfield, Missouri
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  9,875
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  46,175
James E. Daverman, Glencoe, Illinois
2,250 shares of PetsMart, Inc., common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of
Athletics, the Office for the Study of Private Equity Finance
in the School of Business Administration, and support in the
School of Education...................................................  15,750
Davidson Kempner Advisors, Inc., Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Sally Michelson Davidson Professorship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................  100,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute................................ 5,000
Delta Dental Fund, Okemos
for the Pediatric Dental Clinic Renovation Fund in the
School of Dentistry...................................................  10,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  26,250
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program, Inc., Detroit
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College
of Engineering..........                        95,000
Dickinson Wright PLLC Counsellors at Law, Detroit
for the Henry M. Campbell Memorial Prize Fund in the
Law   School..........................................................  10,000
Thomas I. Dolan, Kalamazoo
1,100 shares of A. O. Smith Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Thomas I. and Barbara S. Dolan Donor Pooled Income Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the University of Michigan...................... 48,088
Dow Corning Corporation, Midland
for employee matching gifts.............................................  9,400
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
for employee matching gifts.............................................  6,010
Electronic Data Systems, Plano, Texas
for minority and female scholarships in the College of
Engineering and for WFUM-TV........................................  24,684
Fannie Mae Foundation, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning
and for employee matching gifts........................................  16,550


313




April Meeting, 1998


Edward I. Fleischman Foundation, Southfield
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the
U niversity  Library.....................................................  7,500
FMC Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching  gifts............................................  17,461
Serena E. Ford, Ann Arbor
50 shares of Bristol-Myers-Squibb Company common stock
for the Clements Library..............................................  5,363
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Global Business Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration, for support in the College of Engineering,
for research in the School of Information and for automotive
transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........... 250,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the College of Engineering and the Medical School,
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center, for the Ann Arbor Flower
Show presented by the Matthaei Botanical Gardens and for the
School of Management at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............. 66,535
Foundry Educational Foundation, Des Plaines, Illinois
for the Foundry Educational Foundation Fund in the College
of Engineering........................................................  5,800
George B. Foussianes, New York, New York
for the Foussianes Family Scholarship in the Department
of  A thletics..........................................................  20,000
Samuel and Jean Frankel Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the East European Judaic Studies Graduate Student Aid Fund
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 5,000
Stanley D. Frankel, Troy
for the East European Judaic Studies Graduate Student Aid Fund
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 5,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School and
for research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 230,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business
Administration and for the General Motors Foundation Computer
Aided Engineering Network Fund, the Robert H. Lurie Engineering
Center, and the Minority Engineering Program in the College
of Engineering.....................................................  500,000
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation, Midland
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 27,000
Ann & Gordon Getty Foundation, San Francisco, California
for support in  the School of Music......................................  13,000
Wallace D. Grant, Plymouth
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 6,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research and the Population Studies Center in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  55,000
Great Lakes Performing Artist Association, Ann Arbor
for the Women's Research Gift Fund in the Medical School.................. 9,649
Guardian Industries Corporation, Auburn Hills
25,000 shares of Orbotech, Ltd., common stock
for the William Davidson Institute in the School of Business
Adm inistration..................................................... 1,025,000
Harness, Dickey & Pierce, P.L.C., Troy
for W UOM /WVGR.....................................................  5,230
Hayes Wheels International, Inc., Romulus
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 34,000
Elnora C. Hensel, Upper San dusky, Ohio
600 shares of Amgen, Inc., common stock and
400 shares of MCI Communications common stock
for the Hensel Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Law  School................................  56,413
Robert E. Hensel, Upper Sandusky, Ohio
600 shares of Amgen, Inc., common stock and
400 shares of MCI Communications common stock
for the Hensel Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Law  School................................ 56,413


314




April Meeting, 1998


Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  7,500
Hosiden and Philips Display Corporation, Kobe-City, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering.......................... 22,433
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Kanagawa, Japan
for rear view mirror research in the Transportation
Research Institute..........................................    35,000
Indian Trail Charitable Foundation, Inc., Harrison, New York
for the Political Science Seminar Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts................................................  23,000
ITT Automotive Group, Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  7,500
Japan Foundation, New York, New York
for the Japanese Legal Studies Program in the Law School................. 41,546
Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in Rabbinic Literature
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 20,000
Johnson Controls Automotive Systems Corporation, Plymouth
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 7,500
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health and
for the Center for Political Studies in the Institute for Social Research....... 84,249
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation-Canada, Ontario, Canada
for research in the Medical School...................................... 50,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  17,649
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek
for employee matching  gifts.............................................  8,360
Kelsey-Hayes Company, Livonia
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  7,500
Margaret A. Kerr Trust
for the John Slykhouse Memorial Scholarship in the Department
of Athletics and for the Michigan League.................................  11,000
Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School......................................  35,000
KPMG Peat Marwick Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
for employee matching   gifts.............................................  5,050
Kraft General Foods, Inc., Glenview, Illinois
for the OCD Catalyst Project Fund in the School of Business
Adm inistration.......................................................  20,000
Bert N. LaDu, Jr., Ann Arbor
for support in  the Medical School........................................  6,000
John LaDuke Estate
for the Class of 1927 Educational Memorial Research Fund in the
School of Education and the Pediatrics Research and Teaching
Fund  in  the M edical School............................................  44,749
Chu Yong Lee, Seoul, Korea
for the Korean Studies Development Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  20,000
N. M. Leff Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Dale E. and Norman M. Leff Dean's Merit
Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 5,000
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in  the Medical School.......................................  8,750
Life Trends, Inc., Vero Beach, Florida
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research.......... 22,377
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research and other support in the Medical School....................... 7,100
Susan C. Longo, Denton, Texas
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning............... 7,500
Lotspeich Company, Inc., Miami, Florida
for the Jim and Bonnie Mandich Scholarship in the Department
of Athletics                                                          5,000
Georges Lurcy Charitable and Educational Trust, New York, New York
for scholarships and fellowships in the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate  Studies...................................................  15,000
315




April Meeting, 1998


John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..............................................  518,617
Edward and Helen Mardigian Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center and the Turner
G eriatrics  Center....................................................  500,000
J. P. McCarthy Foundation, Southfield
for research  in the Medical School......................................  22,500
Julian G. McIntosh Estate
for the Julian and Vera McIntosh Memorial Fund in the
School of Music................................................. 475,000
Margaret A. McKinley Estate
for support of the Law School.................................... 5,000
McKinsey & Company, Inc., New York, New York
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute.....................................................  7,500
Thomas B. McMullen Company, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.......................................   5,000
Medical Class of 1951, Ann Arbor
for the Medical Class of 1951 Scholarship in the Medical School.............. 6,016
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Education and the Institute for
Social Research....................................................  1,370,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for support in the College of Engineering and the Medical School............. 6,000
Meritor Light, Troy
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  7,500
Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone, Ann Arbor
for the  University  Musical Society.......................................  5,000
Norman F. Miller Gynecologic Society, Ann Arbor
for the George W. Morley Professorship in the Medical School.............. 12,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 22,500
Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts
for research in the College of Engineering................................  10,000
Patricia Skelly Moore, Vero Beach, Florida
660 shares of Northern Trust Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Nursing....................................  50,222
Kathi Morrow, Bloomfield Hills
390 shares of Cisco Systems, Inc., common stock
for the Marlin H. Pemberton Scholarship in the Department
of Athletics..........................................             24,923
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
for the  Clem ents Library..............................................  10,000
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for employee matching   gifts.............................................  8,435
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint and
for employee matching gifts..............................         803,360
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois  8
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  119,712
National Ataxia Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  8,000
National Organization for Hearing Research, Narberth, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  10,000
National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, Colorado
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute....................................... 7,500
Nippondenso Manufacturing USA, Inc., Battle Creek
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  7,500
Ronald and Joan Nordgren Charitable Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Ronald P. and Joan M. Nordgren Endowed Research
Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................... 25,000
Novellus Systems, Inc., San Jose, California
for research in the College of Engineering................................  10,000


316




April Meeting, 1998


John M. Olson Company, St. Clair Shores
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of
Michigan-Dearborn........................................       20,000
Oral Health America Chicago, Illinois
for support in  the School of Dentistry...................................  11,000
Terrence E. O'Rourke, Saline
for support in the Department of Athletics.......6,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for scholarships and fellowships in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate  Studies............................................  20,000
Pfizer Inc., New York, New York
for research and other support in the Medical School...................... 15,000
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Inc. Washington, DC
for research in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy............. 16,500
Pharmaceutical Research Manufacturers of America, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Pharmacy...................................  6,000
Millicent Powderly Estate
for support in  the  Medical School.......................................  25,000
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Second World Workshop in Oral Medicine Fund in the
School of Dentistry..................................................  100,000
Dorothy D. Purdy Estate
for support in the School of Social Work...........                   37,956
Radiological Society of North America R & E, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  7,083
Frank G. Reeder, Wilmette, Illinois
500 shares of Tellabs, Inc., common stock
for the Frank G. Reeder Endowed Scholarship in the Law School............ 32,016
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  55,000
Thomas A. Reynolds, Jr., Winnetka, Illinois
for support of the University of Michigan............................... 100,000
Rheometric Scientific, Piscataway, New Jersey
for research in the College of Engineering................................. 5,000
M. Jean Rich Estate
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering and
for the Bentley Historical Library.......................................  28,000
Roger W. Ridley, Riverside, California
1,321 shares of BankAmerica Corporation common stock
for the Ridley Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Ridley Endowment in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  96,722
Roy Roberts Charitable Remainder Annuity
for the Richard H. Kingery Collegiate Professorship in the School
of Dentistry...................................                   336,412
Ronald W. Rosenberg, Birmingham
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Alton and Herbert Roska Trust
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  24,999
Saddle Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sexual Assault Prevention and Awareness Center................... 25,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Research on Women and
Gender and in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 69,760
Albert G. and Olive H. Schlink Foundation, Norwalk, Ohio
for the Albert G. Schlink Endowment in the Institute
of  G erontology.......................................................  10,000
Seagate, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 30,000
Jeanine Ernst Seski, Murrysville, Pennsylvania
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund, in memory
of Felix  Rutledge......................................................  5,000
Arun K. Sharma, Midland, Texas
for the G. D. Sharma Fellowship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..................................................  7,500
David E. Shaw, New York, New York
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................... 25,000


317




April Meeting, 1998


Thomas T. Skrentny Estate
for philosophy support in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts.....................................................   5,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Business Administration and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................... 53,453
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the School of Dentistry...................................  21,957
Sony Music Entertainment, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 5,000
Sony Pictures Entertainment, Inc., Culver City, California
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 9,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education and in the Department of
Behavioral Sciences at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............. 328,685
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, DC
for research in the Medical School...................................... 23,058
Standard Products Company, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University
of Michigan-Dearborn............................................... 12,500
Elizabeth Strickler, Atlanta, Georgia
100 shares of Bristol-Myer S uibb Company common stock
for student aid in the Medical School....................................  10,681
Ruth B. Strout Estate
for support in the School of Information.................................. 8,118
Lewis and Judy Tann Philanthropic Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for the building fund in the School of Engineering,
the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................................  15,000
Texas Instruments, Inc., Dalas, Texas
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 50,000
Textron Automotive Exteriors, Inc., Troy
for human factors research in the Transportation
Research Institute...................................                 15,000
Thrasher Research Fund, Salt Lake City, Utah
for research in the School of Public Health............................... 24,988
R. J. Tower Corporation, Greenville
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute..................................................... 5,000
James L. Townsend, Louisville, Kentucky
930 shares of Banta Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for the Sudden Hearing Loss Research Fund in the Kresge
Hearing  Research  Institute............................................  25,817
Ruth L. Townsend, Lahaina, Hawaii
for the Sudden Hearing Loss Research Fund in the Kresge
Hearing  Research  Institute............................................  25,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute in the College of Engineering........ 10,000
TRW Fund of the Cleveland Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for research in the Center for Ergonomics, College of Engineering........... 25,000
UAW-GM Human Resource Center, Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research in the
Transportation  Research  Institute......................................  15,000
Union Oil Company of California Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  9,550
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for the Associates Program in the School of Business
Adm inistration.......................................................  15,000
Clara D. VanAuken Trust
for support of the Law School......................................... 125,000
Volvo GM Heavy Truck Corporation, Greensboro, North Carolina
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation
Research  Institute....................................................  10,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School and
for special events support at the University of Michigan.................... 88,000
Warner-lamnbert Company, orris Plains, New Jersey
for employee m atching  gifts.............................................  7,930


318




April Meeting, 1998


George R. Webster, Vail, Colorado
1,000 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock
for the Arthur Webster Memorial Fund in the Law School.................. 73,625
Richard M. Weeks, Fallbrook, California
4,752 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Richard M. Weeks Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit  of the College of Engineering................ 243,683
Helen M. West, Ann Arbor
200 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock
for the George L. West, Jr., Memorial Fund in the College
of Engineering...........................................           25,738
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Samuel L. Westerman Scholarship in the Department
of Athletics.........................................................  10,000
Walter E. Wilson Trust
for the Student Team Project Center Fund in the
College of Engineering...............................................  100,000
Margaret Winegarden Trust
for the Winegarden Scholarship at the University of
M ichigan-Flint......................................................  242,000
Robert I. Wishnick Foundation, New York, New York
for the Judy and Simeon Brinberg Travel Award Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................ 5,000
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for student aid in the Center for the Education of Women and
for the Center for EngineeringEducation and Practice
at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................. 50,100
Wyeth Ayerst American Home Products Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Residents Education Program in the Medical School.................. 5,500
Xerox Corporation, Stamford, Connecticut
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  6,535
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Badger Fire Protection, Charlottesville, Virginia
24 fire extinguishers for the Solar Car Team
John D'Arms New York, New York
112 books for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology
Datron Technology, Inc., Farmington Hills
a Datron CSV-2 System for the Solar Car Team
Fenton M. Davison, Naples, Florida
241 books for the University of Michigan-Flint Frances Willson Thompson Library
Anita M. Gilleo, Grand Rapids
an oil on canvas painting entitled, "Landscape with Lone Bent Tree in Front of Pond"
by Mathias J. Alten for the Michigan-League
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
sixty computer workstations and related equipment for the Department of Electrical
Engneering and Computer Science
La-Man Corporation, Port Orange, Florida
selected equipment for the Solar Car Team
Paul Laughlin, Ann Arbor
two photographs with gelatin silver prints by Ralph E. Meatyard for the Museum of Art
Mack Industries, Inc., Troy
two wind tunnel models for the Solar Car Team
Larry E. Myers, Arlington, Texas
a collection of 1,255 19th and 20th century books for the Clements Library
Safety Services, Inc., Kalamazoo
safety equipment for the Solar Car Team
Frances H. Sawyer, Ann Arbor
a blackware bowl by Maria Martinez and Santana Martinez for the Museum of Art
Ruth A. Schnee, Southfield
950 volumes of printed material on the subjects of art, literature, German history, and
Jewish history for the Special Collections Library
Wahl Instruments Asheville, North Carolina
selected equipment for the Solar Car Team
Alice D. Wallace, Boulder, Colorado
87 books and periodicals for the Clements Library


319




April Meeting, 1998


Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Michihiko Akiyama, Ann Arbor        Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
American Allsafe, Tonawanda, New York  Koerts Glass & Paint Company, Flint
Lawrence I. Berkove, Southfield    Mrs. Donald C. Kraushaar, Saline
Kathleen S. Bohr, Ann Arbor        Joshua L. Mack, New York, New York
Harry L. Cross, Ann Arbor          Douglas C. McClintock, Northville
Cully's Landscape, Trenton         Michael McGlasson, Detroit
Lauren D. Friesen, Swartz Creek     Constance Castle Plice, Ann Arbor
Michael GeRonne, Beverly Hills     Anita Pious, Birmingham
John R. Griffith, Ann Arbor        Joseph Rife, Ann Arbor
Charlotte Miettunen Hanson, Ann Arbor  Mary E. Schultz, Grand Blanc
John Harriman, Ann Arbor           Arlene P. Shy, Ann Arbor
Medical Affairs. Executive Vice President Omenn distributed copies
of an article about the Medical Center that had appeared in the Ann Arbor
News and distributed cards containing statistics about the University of
Michigan Health System. He called attention to a report prepared by the
Southeast Michigan Employer and Purchaser Consortium about patient
satisfaction and about a recent survey regarding public attitudes toward
biomedical research.
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted a number of personnel
actions and called attention to the appointment of Marvin Parnes as
associate vice president for research and executive director of research
administration. Vice President Neidhardt further described the rationale for
the creation of the position and Mr. Parnes' suitability for it.
Provost Cantor also called attention to the appointment of James Steward
as director of the Museum of Art.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Akingbehin, Kiumi, Professor of Computer and Information Sciences, UM-Flint
Axinn, William G., Ph.D., Professor of Sociology
Grotberg, James B., Ph.D., Professor of Biomedical Engineering, May 1, 1998
Szabo, Zoltan, Associate Professor of Mathematics
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective July 1, 1998
Gest, Thomas R., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology


320




April Meeting, 1998


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Cohen, David W., Professor of History, with tenure, Professor of Anthropology, without
tenure, and Director, International Institute, also appointed Professor of Social
Science, without tenure, Residential College, September 1, 1997
Faller, Lincoln B., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Associate
Dean for Undergraduate Education and Long Range Planning, College of Literature
and the Arts, also appointed Chair, Department of English Language and Literature,
three year term, September 1, 1999
Keeler, Gerald J., Associate Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, with tenure,
School of Public Health, also appointed Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental
Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, January 1, 1998
Siebers, Tobin A., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, also appointed
Interim Chair, Department of English Language and Literature, one year term,
September 1, 1998
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Briggs, Josephine P., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of
Physiology, without tenure, government services leave extended, May 1, 1998, through
April 30, 1999 (previously reported May 1, 1997, through April 30, 1998)
Shah, Parth J., Assistant Professor of Economics, research leave extended, September 1 -December 31, 1998 (previously reported September 1, 1997-August 31, 1998)
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Renaming Professorship
Gardner C. Quarton Collegiate Professor of Neurosciences, Medical School, May 1, 1998
(previously the Gardner C. Quarton Professor of Neurosciences)
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Akil, Huda, Gardner C. the Gardner C. Quarton Professor of Neurosciences, Professor of
Psychiatry, with tenure, and Co-Director, Mental Health Research Institute,
reappointed the Gardner C. Quarton Collegiate Professor of Neurosciences, five-year
term, May 1, 1998-April 30, 2003
Hoff, Julian T., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and the Richard C. Schneider Professor of
Neurosurgery, reappointed the Richard C. Schneider Professor of Neurosurgery, five
year term, November 20, 1997
Parnes, Marvin G., from Assistant Vice President for Research, Director, Division of
Research Development and Administration, and Interim Director, Technology
Management Office, to Associate Vice President for Research, Executive Director,
Division of Research Development and Administration, and Interim Director,
Technology Management Office, May 1, 1998
Schwartz, Yigal, Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professor of Judaic Studies, four month
term, September 1, 1998
Steward, James C., Director, Museum of Art, five year term, July 12, 1998
Tabory, Joseph, Jean and Samuel Frankel Professor of Rabinic Literature, nine month term,
August 15, 1998
Ward, Peter A., Godfrey D. Stobbe Professor of Pathology, Professor of Pathology, with
tenure, and Chair, Department of Pathology, reappointed the Godfrey D. Stobbe
Professor of Pathology, five year term, September 1, 1997
321




April Meeting, 1998


Watson, Stanley J., Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, Theophile Raphael Collegiate
Professor of Neurosciences, and Co-Director, Mental Health Institute, reappointed the
Theophile Raphael Collegiate Professor of Neurosciences, five year term, May 1, 1998
Committee appointments. The following committee appointments
were submitted:
College of Engineering Executive Committee
Wight, James K., May 1, 1998-June 30, 1999, vice Linda P. B. Katehi, assumed associate
dean position
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Brater, Enoch, September 1-December 31, 1998, vice Ludwig Koenen, sabbatical leave
Knott, John R., Jr., September 1, 1998-August 31, 2001, vice Diane M. Kirkpatrick, term expired
Rose, Sonya O., September 1, 1998-August 31, 2001, vice William J. Adams, term expired
School of Social Work Executive Committee
Vinokur, Diane K., September 1, 1998-August 31, 2001, vice Sandra K. Danziger, term expired
Wallace, John M., Jr., September 1, 1998-August 31, 2001, vice Robert M. Ortega, term expired
Personnel reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Medical School
Jacobson, Jon A., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, one year term, April 1, 1998
Quinlan, Paul E., D.O., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry, one year term,
March 1, 1998
Stricker, Lori J., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, one year term, July 1, 1998
Su, Lyndon D., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pathology, three year term, July 1, 1998
School of Nursing
McIntosh, Elaine P., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, two year term, March 23, 1998
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Eschrich, Gabriella M., M.A., Lecturer in French, seven month term, September 1, 1998
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Medical School
Passaro, Erasmo A., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Neurology, one year term,
February 2, 1998 (previously reported as Lecturer in Neurology)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Hutchings, Vincent L., from Instructor in Political Science to Assistant Professor of Political
Science, January 1, 1998-May 31, 2000


322




April Meeting, 1998


Medical School
Zoschnick, Lauren B., from Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology to Clinical
Assistant Professor II of Obstetrics and Gynecology, September 1, 1997-July 31, 1998
School of Music
DePuit, Gerald A., from Lecturer in Music (Musical Theatre) to Clinical Assistant Professor
II of Performing Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2002
Fredricksen, Janet M., from Lecturer in Theatre and Drama to Clinical Assistant Professor
II of Performing Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2002
Kerr, Sarah-Jane, from Lecturer in Theatre and Drama to Clinical Assistant Professor II of
Performing Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2002
Major, Joshua S., from Lecturer in Music (Opera) to Clinical Assistant Professor II of
Performing Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2002
Racine, Melody L., from Lecturer in Music (Voice) to Clinical Assistant Professor II of
Performing Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2002
Rice, Judith L., from Lecturer in Dance to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Performing Arts,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 2002
Schwiebert, from Assistant Professor of Theatre and Drama to Clinical Assistant Professor II
of Performing Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Lenaghan, Robert T., Professor Emeritus of English, two month term, July 1, 1998
Medical School
Allen, Richard J., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and
Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics, six month term, January 1, 1999
Bacon, George E., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, one year
term, November 1, 1998
Counsell, Raymond E., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School, and Professor
Emeritus of Medicinal Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, one year term, September 1, 1997
Curtis, George C., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, thirteen month term, June 1, 1998
Greenberg, G. Robert, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, one year term, July 1, 1998
Heyn, Ruth M., Professor Emerita of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, one year term,
July 1, 1998
Malvin, Richard L., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, one year term, January 1, 1998
Stern, Aaron M., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, one year
term, December 1, 1998
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Anderson, Andrew A., Professor of Spanish, with tenure, research leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
Heirich, Max A., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, extended sick leave,
March 26-May 3, 1998
Mindell, David P., Assistant Professor of Biology and Assistant Curator, Museum of Zoology,
duty off campus, March 23-May 31, 1998
Pinch, Adela N., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's
Studies, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1998
Stern, Robert M., Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure,
School of Public Policy, retirement furlough, January 1-May 31, 1998
Zakharov, Valentine I., Professor of Physics, with tenure, personal leave, January 1-May 31, 1998


323




April Meeting, 1998


Medical School
Abrams, Gerald D., Professor of Pathology, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1 -November 15, 1997
Bozynski, Mary Ellen A., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, April 1-July 31, 1998
Damato, Constance J., Assistant Professor of Neurobiology, retirement furlough, May 1, 1998 -December 31, 2000
Gerbarski, Stephen S., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
March 16-September 15, 1998
Hernandez, Ramiro J., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
March 1-August 31, 1998
Tandon, Rajiv, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
June 16-December 15, 1998
School of Music
Blackstone, Jerry O., Associate Professor of Music (Conducting), without tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Dapogny, James, Professor of Music (Theory), with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1999
Halsted, Margo, Assistant Professor of Music (Campanology), sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Katz, Martin E., Artur Schnabel Collegiate Professor of Music (Piano) and Professor of
Music (Accompanying/Chamber), with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Sargous, Harry W., Professor of Music (Oboe), with tenure, extended sick leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
O'Donnell, Paul E., Professor of Foreign Languages, with tenure, extended sick leave,
March 6, 1998-May 31, 1998
Wong, Victor K., Professor of Physics, with tenure, administrative leave, June 1-August 31, 1998
CORRECTIONS TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Art and Design
Leonard, Joanne, Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, and Professor of
Women's Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
(previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1998)
Pender, Nola J., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Research and Professor of
Nursing, with tenure, sabbatical leave, April 6-October 5, 1998
(previously reported as March 15-September 15, 1998)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
School of Art and Design
Cervenka, Sister Barbara, Lecturer in Art, retired, December 31, 1997
School of Education
Kearney, Charles P., Professor of Education, with tenure, retired
McPhail, Jean C., Assistant Professor of Education, resigned
College of Engineering
Ludema, Kenneth C., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, retired
Senior, Thomas B. A., Professor of Electrical Engineering, with tenure, retired


324




April Meeting, 1998


College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Halliday, Alexander N., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, resigned
Organski, A. F. K., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, deceased, March 5, 1998
Medical School
Adler, Ronald S., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, resigned, March 31, 1998
Allswede, Michael P., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, resigned, June 30, 1998
Hoock, Jennifer, L., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Family Medicine, resigned, March 31, 1998
School of Nursing
Bord, Cheryl L., Lecturer in Nursing, term complete, May 31, 1997
Retirement Memoirs. Provost Cantor submitted retirement memoirs
for six retiring faculty members.
Robert G. Carter, senior associate librarian, retired on April 1, 1998, after
41 years of service.
A native of Iowa, Robert Carter earned his B.A. degree from the University
of Iowa in 1951. Following two years of service in the Army Medical Service
Corps and a year of teaching English in Iowa, he came to Ann Arbor in 1955
to enroll in the University's School of Library Science. He received his M.L.S.
degree in 1956 and joined the University Library in 1957.
From 1960, when he was named the exchange and gift librarian, until his
retirement, Mr. Carter devoted his career to enriching the library's collections
through the acquisition of materials not available through the usual purchasing
channels. He was instrumental in establishing, negotiating, and maintaining
exchange agreements with more than 3,000 institutions from around the
world, bringing to the library materials from Eastern Europe and China when
purchasing from those areas was almost impossible. Because of the library's
extensive relationships with libraries in these countries, he was often able to
acquire obscure materials needed for faculty research, thereby maintaining
the strength of the library's collections, especially in the areas of Slavic and
East European publications.
As part of the exchange process, the University library sends materials
to its exchange partners in return for the materials they provide to the
library. Mr. Carter maintained contacts with many departments around
campus and worked with the University Press to ensure that such materials
were available for exchange. Highly accurate records are also necessary, and
he acted most responsibly in maintaining these records. Due to his depth of
knowledge and years of experience, other institutions would also consult
with him about this process.
Through his dedication to professional excellence and his broad knowledge
of the library and its collections, Mr. Carter has made a significant contribution
to generations of University scholars.
The Regents now salute this librarian for his dedicated service by naming
Robert G. Carter senior associate librarian emeritus.
Thomas S. Cohn, professor of psychology at the University of MichiganDearborn, will retire from active faculty status on April 30, 1998.
Professor Cohn earned his A.B. (1947), A.M. (1948), and Ph.D. (1953)
degrees at the University of Michigan. He began his teaching career as a
lecturer at the University of California at Santa Barbara from 1950-52. From
1953-61, he was on the faculty of Wayne State University, where he was


325




April Meeting, 1998


promoted to associate professor. He joined the faculty of the University of
Michigan-Dearborn in 1961 as associate professor of psychology and sociology
and chair of the Section of Social Sciences. He was promoted to professor in
1965.
As a member of a relatively small faculty body, by necessity Professor Cohn
taught a great variety of courses. He later became best known for his courses in
group dynamics and the psychology of leadership. As a scholar, Professor Cohn's
published work in such publications as American Psychologist, Journal of
Abnormal and Social Psychology, and Journal of Social Psychology reflect his
broad interest and involvement in several subfields of psychology.
In addition to his distinguished faculty career, Professor Cohn made
substantial administrative contributions to the growth and development of the
Dearborn campus as it made the transition from a small, two-year, senior college
to a comprehensive four-year undergraduate institution with an expanding
curriculum and a growing faculty body. Having served as public information
officer for the Michigan Psychological Association and board member and
president of the Michigan Association for Gifted Children, Professor Cohn's
commitment to the profession of psychology has clearly been far-reaching.
The Regents now salute this dedicated teacher and senior member of the
Dearborn faculty by naming Thomas S. Cohn professor emeritus of psychology.
Izzeddin S. Habib, professor of mechanical engineering at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn, will retire from the active faculty status on
April 30, 1998, after many years of faithful and dedicated service.
Professor Habib received his B.M.E. degree from the American University
of Beirut in 1956, his M.S.M.E. degree from Virginia Polytechnic Institute in
1961, and his Ph.D. degree (mechanical engineering) from the University
of California at Berkley in 1968. He worked as a design engineer in Beirut,
Lebanon, from 1957-60, as a group leader at Chrysler Corporation from 1964-66,
and as a research assistant at the University of California at Berkley from
1966-68.
Professor Habib joined the University of Michigan-Dearborn as an
assistant professor of mechanical engineering in 1969. He was promoted to
associate professor in 1970 and professor in 1973. He served as chair of the
Department of Mechanical Engineering from 1971-75 and as interim chair
from 1990-92.
Professor Habib was a visiting scholar at Stanford University in 1975 and a
visiting professor at the Laboratoire d'Etudes et de Recherches en Mechanique
Energ6tique des Surfaces, in Nancy, France, in 1989. He served as chair of the
ASME K-12 Committee on Aerospace Heat transfer from 1983-86. Professor
Habib has been involved in engineering education for more than 30 years and
has lectured nationally throughout his career.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Izzeddin S.
Habib professor emeritus of mechanical engineering.
Evelyn L. Smith, head of technical services and librarian in the Law
Library, retired on March 31, 1998.
Ms. Smith received her A.B. degree from Antioch College in 1963 and her
A.M.L.S. degree from the University of Michigan in 1964. She joined the
University of Michigan Law Library as a cataloger in 1964. She was promoted to


326




April Meeting, 1998


chief catalog librarian in 1970 and head of the Technical Services Department in
1987.
Librarians in academic and research libraries considered Ms. Smith to be
an expert in all types of cataloging. Under her guidance, the cataloging and
related records at the University of Michigan Law Library became nationally
known for carefulness, completeness, and intellectual thoroughness. As
libraries were able to use each other's computerized records, Ms. Smith's work
became accessible to ever more libraries, first in the United States and now,
via the internet, around the globe.
Ms. Smith's major contributions to the profession were through participation in professional organizations such as the American Library Association
and the American Association of Law Libraries, which developed standards for
machine readable records. At Michigan, she trained two generations of catalogers
directly and strongly influenced dozens of other professional librarians who
were her colleagues over the last 34 years.
Ms. Smith's expertise was critical to every major undertaking in the Law
Library: using computers to assist in cataloging in 1979; moving half the
collections to the Allan and Alene Smith Addition in 1981; implementing an
integrated computer system for all Law Library records in 1991; and overseeing
the conversion of catalog cards to computer format in 1998. Ms. Smith
remained firmly committed to creating and maintaining bibliographic records
which met the scholarly and research needs of those who used, and those who
worked in, the Law Library. The solid foundation she created will forever
support scholarly research in the Law Library.
The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian by naming Evelyn
L. Smith librarian emerita.
Paul K. Trojan, professor of metallurgical engineering at the University
of Michigan-Dearborn, will retire from active faculty status on April 30, 1998,
following 42 years of service.
Professor Trojan received his B.S.E. degree in 1955, his M.S.E. degree in
1956, and his Ph.D. degree in 1961, all from the University of Michigan. He
joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1956 as an instructor in chemical
and metallurgical engineering and moved to the Dearborn campus in 1960.
He was promoted to assistant professor in 1961, associate professor in 1964,
and professor in 1970. Professor Trojan also served as chair of the Engineering
Division from 1962-64, acting dean of the School of Engineering from
1980-82, and interim dean from 1988-90.
Since 1956, Professor Trojan has conducted sponsored research on the Ann
Arbor campus, and many of his publications have resulted from such research
cooperation. He has also lectured nationally throughout his career. He is a
member of the American Foundrymen's Society, American Society for Metals,
American Society for Engineering Education, and a number of honor societies.
He received the American Society for Metals' Henry Marion Howe Gold Medal
in 1963, the American Foundrymen's Society's Thomas Pangborn Gold Medal
in 1978, and the Best Research Paper award from the Brass and Bronze
Division of the American Foundrymen's Society eight times.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming Paul K. Trojan professor emeritus of metallurgical engineering.


327




April Meeting, 1998


Gregory S. Y. Yeh, professor of materials and metallurgical engineering
in the Department of Chemical Engineering, will retire from active faculty
status on April 30, 1998, following 31 years of service.
Professor Yeh earned his B.S. degree in physics from Holy Cross College in
1957, his M.S. degree in engineering physics from Cornell University in 1960,
and his Ph.D. degree in polymer physics from Case Institute of Technology in
1966. From 1960-64, he worked as a research physicist at Goodyear Tire and
Rubber Company and then as a senior research physicist at General Tire and
Rubber Company. After completing postdoctoral studies at Case Institute of
Technology in 1966, Professor Yeh joined the faculty of the University of
Michigan College of Engineering as an assistant professor in 1967. He was
promoted to associate professor in 1969 and professor in 1972.
His work, documented in 80 scientific publications and numerous invited
presentations at scientific meetings all over the world, spanned a wide range of
timely topics, with emphasis on the morphology and kinetics of single and
multiple polymeric systems and on solid state polymer processing and deformation. He also made seminal contributions to the morphology and kinetics of
strain-induced crystallization of polymers and to the elucidation of chain
conformation in amorphous polymers.
Professor Yeh was twice named a Fulbright Scholar, and he received a
Humboldt Award three times. In Germany, he was a visiting professor at the
University of Ulm, the Technical University of Berlin, and the Max Planck
Institute in Berlin. Later, he also served as a visiting professor at the
University of California at Berkeley and the University of Technology, South
China. Within the College of Engineering, Professor Yeh had an impact not
only through developing and teaching polymer courses, but also through his
role as Ph.D. thesis advisor for 15 students.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Gregory S. Y. Yeh
professor emeritus of materials and metallurgical engineering.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported this
month. However, President Bollinger noted the deaths of three emeritus
faculty members: Warren P. Norman, Andrew Watson, and Henry Gershowitz.
Honorary Degrees. President Bollinger submitted recommendations
for honorary degrees to be awarded to the following individuals: Richard Ford,
novelist and short story writer; Mary Lowe Good, distinguished chemist and
undersecretary of technology in the U.S. Department of Commerce; Mamphela
Ramphele, distinguished scholar and vice chancellor of the University of Capetown;
Edward Said, distinguished literary and cultural critic; and Mae C. Jemison,
physician and former astronaut (University of Michigan-Dearborn). These
degrees are to be awarded at the Spring 1998 Commencement.
Degrees. Provost Cantor submitted the May 1998 Doctoral Degree
List, the December 1997 Law School final degree list, and changes to previously
approved degree lists. Copies of all of the degree lists are on file in the Office
of the Secretary of the University.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded
by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.


328




April Meeting, 1998


Amendments to Hospital Revenue Bond Master Trust Indenture and
Medical Service Plan Revenue Bond Indentures
Regent Deitch moved approval of the following actions, including
authorization for the executive vice president and chief financial officer and
the associate vice president and treasurer or either one of them to take such
actions, including execution and delivery for and on behalf of the University
of any required documentation, as are necessary to accomplish the same:
1.  Amend the Master Indenture, under and pursuant to the provisions of
Section 1501(d) and 1501(e) thereof, to provide that, subject to other
conditions specified in the Master Indenture, Revenue Obligations,
and particularly Primary Obligations may be issued in the form of
interest rate swaps, caps or similar arrangements related to Revenue
Obligations, and such interest rate swaps, caps or similar arrangements
may be payable from Hospital Gross Revenues and secured on a parity
first lien basis with other Revenue Obligations by a first lien on
Pledged Hospital Gross Revenues; and
2.  Amend each of the 1991 MSP Indenture and 1995 MSP Indenture
under the provisions of Section 11.01(c) and 11.01(d) of the 1991
Indenture and Section 1401(c) and 1401(e) of the 1995 MSP Indenture
to provide that, subject to other conditions contained in the MSP
Indentures, Additional Parity Bonds may be issued in the form of
interest rate swaps, caps or similar arrangements, and that such interest
rate swaps, caps or similar arrangements may be payable from and
secured by parity first lien on Medical Service Plan Revenues.
Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Commitment of $37.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to Three
Alternative Equity Investments
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents about follow-on
investments totaling $37.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to three
alternative equity investments: CMD Realty Investment Fund IV, L.P.;
Natural Gas Partners V, L.P.; and Sequoia Capital VIII, L.P.; as described in
the Regents Communication.
Alternative Equity Investment
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Deitch, the
Regents unanimously approved commitment of up to $20 million of the Long
Term Portfolio to Bain Capital Fund VI, L.P. and Bain Capital VI Coinvestment
Fund, L.P.
Keweenaw Rocket Launch Site
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved offering for sale property located in Grant Township,
Keweenaw County, Michigan, as described in the Regents Communication.
Small Parcel of Land Adjacent to 1327 Geddes Avenue, Ann Arbor
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved sale of the 7 by 34.80 foot parcel of land adjacent to


329




April Meeting, 1998


1327 Geddes Avenue, Ann Arbor, to William Stegeman, as described in the
Regents Communication.
Building at 710-716 S. Forest Avenue
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved naming of the building at 710-716 S. Forest
Avenue the "Towsley Center for Children."
Maintenance Projects
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved two projects:   Steam  line replacement
continuation on the Athletic Campus and elimination of the sanitary/storm
drain cross connection in the G. G. Brown Building.
University of Michigan Hospitals Women's Hospital Birth Center
Construction of Additional Capacity
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved a revised budget for the project to construct
additional labor, delivery, recovery, postpartum, and nesting rooms for the
Women's Hospital Birth Center, as described in the Regents Communication.
Research Subcontract between the University of Michigan and the
Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, International, Inc.
(ERIM)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously approved a research subcontract between the
University of Michigan and ERIM. Because two ERIM employees who will
be working on this subcontract, John J. Wharton Jr. and Lauren Peterson,
are also adjunct employees of the University of Michigan; and a University of
Michigan employee, Brian Athey, is also an employee of ERIM, this
subcontract falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the subcontract are the University of Michigan and the
Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, International, Inc.
(ERIM).
2.  Terms of the agreement call for a total subcontract of approximately
$15,250 to cover a 12-month period. The University's standard
subcontract provisions will apply.
3. Drs. Wharton and Peterson, University of Michigan adjunct professors
and ERIM employees, will be working on this subcontract at ERIM
as program managers. Brian Athey, a University of Michigan professor
and ERIM employee, has no role in the subcontract to ERIM.


330




April Meeting, 1998


Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Precision Optical Machining, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved a research agreement between the University
of Michigan and Precision Optical Machining, Inc. (POM, Inc.). Because Dr.
Jyoti Mazumder is a University of Michigan employee who also holds a 20%
equity interest in POM, Inc., and serves as a consultant to POM, Inc., this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and
Precision Optical Machining, Inc. (POM, Inc.).
2.  Terms of the agreement are a total contract of $500,000 for Phase I,
covering a 12-month period. The University's standard contract
provisions will apply.
3.  Dr. Mazumder's pecuniary interest arises from his 20% equity
interest in POM, Inc.
Recommendations for Appointment to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McFee, and on the
recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board,
the Regents unanimously approved certain specified appointments to medical
staff membership.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 1999
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the following Regents' Meeting schedule for 1999:
January 21-22               July 15-16
February 18-19              August no meeting
March 18*-19                September 16-17
April 15-16                 October 21**-22
May 20-21                   November 18-19
June 17-18                  December 16-17
*Held at UM-Dearborn
** Held at UM-Flint
The meeting adjourned at this point (11:05 a.m.) and reconvened at
12:00 noon for Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the
topics indicated: Susan Wineberg, chair of City of Ann Arbor Individual
Historic Properties Historic District Study Committee, on demolition of
houses; Bram Elias, student and chair of MSA's Student Regent Task Force,
and Matthew Curin, student and MSA representative, on the proposed MSA
fee increase to create student regent position; Bradley Holcman, student


331




April Meeting, 1998


representing the Interfraternity Council, on the state of the Greek system in
Winter 1998; and Robert C. Alarie, alumnus, on a request to receive an
accredited degree.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 12:30
p.m. Regents' expenses for March 1998 totaled $200.08. The next meeting is
scheduled for May 14-15, 1998.
Walter Harrison,
Secretary of the University


332




MAY MEETING, 1998


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, May 14, 1998
The Regents convened at 1:45 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Maynard, McFee, Newman, Power, and
Taylor. Also present were Provost Cantor, Executive Vice President Kasdin,
Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President and Secretary Harrison,
Vice President Feagin, Vice President Hartford, Vice President Neidhardt,
Chancellor Renick, and Interim Co-General Counsel Barry. Regents Deitch,
Horning, and McGowan and Chancellor Nelms were absent. Provost Renate
McLaughlin attended in place of Chancellor Nelms.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and welcomed Vice President Susan Feagin to her first Regents' Meeting.
Resolution in Honor of Walter Harrison
President Bollinger called on Regent Newman, who noted that this
would be the last Regents' Meeting for Walter Harrison. Regent Newman
called Vice President Harrison to the podium and read the following
resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan congratulate and
commend their loyal friend and trusted adviser Walter Harrison,
vice president for university relations and secretary of the university,
as he leaves the University on May 31, 1998, to become president of
the University of Hartford.
Vice President Harrison came to the University of Michigan as
executive director of university relations in 1989, was named vice
president in 1993, and was appointed secretary of the university in
January 1998. With his quick intelligence, ready smile, and keen
insight, he has provided a calm, clear voice during times of spirited
debate. Whether handling controversies surrounding athletics, indirect
cost recovery, or affirmative action, Vice President Harrison has been
a responsive and steady presence, always available to support and
provide counsel to Regents, executive officers, and the broader
University community.
Under Vice President Harrison's leadership, the University's
media relations efforts were successfully restructured, and the oncefaltering fortunes of Michigan Radio have been reversed to the point
where in the past year it experienced the largest percentage increase
in audience and fund-raising of any public radio station in the


333




May Meeting, 1998


country. As a member of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate
Athletics, Vice President Harrison provided strong leadership as
chair of the NCAA Athletics Certification Steering Committee. He
also has been an inspiring and popular teacher of undergraduate
students, conveying his passion for American literature and culture
with eloquence and good humor.
The Regents now salute Walter Harrison for his numerous
contributions to the University community as an executive officer,
faculty member, and friend. The Regents also express their appreciation
to Dianne Harrison for her equally dedicated years of service and
leadership and extend warmest best wishes to Walt and Dianne as
they embark on their exciting new adventure at the University of
Hartford.
There followed a standing ovation. Vice President Harrison responded
that "it's been the highest honor of my life to serve the University of Michigan,"
and thanked everyone for their support and friendship.
Report on "The Year 2000 Problem"
Provost Cantor introduced Jose Marie Griffiths to present a report on
what is being done to prepare the University infrastructure for the year
2000. Dr. Griffiths described what is meant by "The Year 2000 Problem"
and what the consequences would be if it were not addressed. She noted that
most of the centrally-managed systems that handle most critical business
functions will be Year-2000 compliant by the end of calendar year 1998, and
the remaining ones will be compliant by February 1999. An institution-wide
information awareness campaign has recently been launched to make people
aware that this is a problem they need to address. In addition, every unit on
campus has a Year-2000 representative who is responsible for assessing the
ability of that unit to continue operating through the Year 2000. Once the
status of each unit is known, then plans will be made for addressing any
remaining problems.
Discussion ensued about costs, institution-wide compliance, and other
challenges related to this issue. Executive Vice President Kasdin pointed out
that with the PeopleSoft implementation a number of aspects of the software,
which could have been problematic with respect to the Year 2000 problem,
are being addressed.
Regent Power suggested that periodic reports be made to the Board
about how this issue is being addressed, and it was suggested that the first of
these be given this summer. In response to a question to Dr. Giffiths from
Regent Power about whether adequate support is being provided for addressing these matters, she responded that it was. The unit assessments being
conducted across the institution, including action plans, will be completed by
September 1. Units will also be preparing quarterly reports about implementation of their action plans which can be made available to the Board.
Following further discussion, the Regents turned to the Consent Agenda.


334




May Meeting, 1998


Consent Agenda
Minutes. Secretary Harrison submitted the minutes of the March
19-20 and April 21, 1998, meetings.
Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports on investment and plant extension. General Counsel Barry submitted the Litigation
Report. Vice President Neidhardt presented the Report on Projects Established during April 1998.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted the report on
Voluntary Support.
American Association of University Women, Ann Arbor
for student aid and other support in the Center for
the  Education  of W omen.....................................................  $  15,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for the Biophysics Research Division.......................52,622
American Foundation for Urological Disease, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research and other support in the Medical School.................................5,667
Anonymous Donor
for the Thomas Reynolds, Jr., Fund in the Law School............................. 100,000
David C. Arch, Oak Brook, Illinois
for the Clyde Thompson Scholarship in the School of Music...........................5,000
Nancy Azzam, Golden Valley, Minnesota
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics....................5,000
John S. Bandfield, Clearwater, Florida
for the John S. and Katherine J. Bandfield Student Loan Fund
in  the School of Business Administration..........................................25,000
Beacon Investment Company, Ann Arbor
for the Monet Exhibition Fund in the Museum of Art................................5,000
Peter M. Benedek, Beverly Hills, California
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for the London
School of Economics Student Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.............................................................5,000
Alfred Berkowitz Foundation, Birmingham
for the Holocaust Fund in the Mardigian Library, the University
of Michigan-Dearborn and for WUOM/WVGR......................................10,000
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
for the Drs. Jack L. and Barbara A. Berman Merit Scholarship
in the Medical School....5,000
Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Award Fund and the Guido A. Binda
Exhibit and Lecture Fund in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning..........35,000
Brauer Investment Company, Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society................................................15,690
Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.......................................................7,150
Britax Automotive Component Division, Portchester, Hampshire, United Kingdom
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..................15,000
Richard R. Burns, Duluth, Minnesota
255 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for support of the Law School and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts................................................................... 22,827
Alfred H. Burwitz Trust
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 51,803
Cabot Corporation Foundation, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Summer Projects Fund in
the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering................. 15,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 15,000
Citicorp Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts...................................................... 15,713


335




May Meeting, 1998


Clariant Corporation, Somerville, New Jersey
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 15,000
Cohn Family Philanthropic Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for the Cohn Family Research Fellows Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts...............................................  100,000
Maud D. Cole Estate
for the Alumni Society Scholarship in the School of Information...................... 88,892
Carl S. Conlon Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan................................5,901
Connellan Group, Inc., Orlando, Florida
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 7,500
Coopers & Lybrand Foundation, New York, New York
for the Coopers & Lybrand Research Fund in the School of
Business Adm inistration........................................................14,263
Susan W. Coran, Ann Arbor
70 shares of Intel Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Arnold G. Coran, M.D., Endowed Professorship in the Medical
School and for the East European Judaic Studies Graduate Student
Aid Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................... 5,542
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School................................................59,898
DeKalb Genetics Foundation, DeKalb, Illinois
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................... 7,500
Digital Equipment Corporation, Shrewsbury, Massachusetts
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering
Program   in  the College of Engineering............................................ 25,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for the Dow Professorship in the School of Public Health and
for employee matching  gifts....................................................  354,110
Dow Corning Corporation, Midland
for research in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts............. 49,296
Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, New York, New York
for the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Award Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................... 5,500
Dykema Gossett PLLC, Detroit
for the Monet Exhibition Fund in the Museum of Art............................... 10,000
John D. Evans Foundation, Middleburg, Virginia
for the Collaboratory for Research on Electronic Work.............................. 34,500
Bertine Fair, Bowling Green, Ohio
for support in  the School of Public Health.......................................... 5,000
Flow Ezy Filters, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund.......................................... 5,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health.......................................  450,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering and for the Henry Ford
Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn......................... 182,050
Freudenberg-NOK, Plymouth
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute........ 7,500
General Motors Corporation, Pontiac
for research in the Medical School and for the Henry Ford
Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn......................... 502,050
General Motors Corporation, Canada Group, Warren
for the Chevrolet Collegiate Scholarship............................................ 7,500
General Motors Corporation, R & D Center, Warren
for research in the Transportation Research Institute............................. 485,000
William M. Gibson, Evans, Georgia
for the Helen B. Gibson Scholarship in the College of Engineering.................... 10,000
Glaxo Wellcome, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for support in  the Medical School................................................. 25,000
Graham Foundation, York, Pennsylvania
for the Graham Endowment in Manufacturing in the College of Engineering........... 10,000
J. Ira and Nicki Harris Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics............................ 40,000
Paul G. Hazen, Westlake, Ohio
200 shares of Steris Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for support in  the Medical School................................................. 12,200


336




May Meeting, 1998


Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for  the  U niversity  Library.......................................................10,000
Mary Jo C. Hewitt Trust
for the Janet and Cynthia Hewitt Scholarship for Women
at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............................................ 5,000
James and Lynelle Holden Fund, Troy
for the Sudden Hearing Loss Research Fund in the Kresge
Hearing Research Institute...................................................... 25,000
Jean Marie Holland, Birmingham
for support in the Medical School, in memory of
Frederick R. Holland, M.D........................................................ 5,000
Homeland Foundation, Inc., Amenia, New York
for the Homeland Foundation Endowment in the Law School...................... 250,000
Honda Research of America, Torrance, California
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.............................................................. 15,000
Honeywell Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 22,500
Horizon Health Center Limited Partnership, Bloomfield Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
Howard & Howard Fund of the Kalamazoo Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Law School Merit Scholarship in the Law School............................. 10,000
Integrated Therapeutics, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 20,000
Marjorie M. Jackson Revocable Trust
for  the  M useum   of Art........................................................... 5,000
William M. Jackson, Ann Arbor
for the William "Pat" Jackson and Carol Sullivan Jackson
Endowment in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.................... 10,000
Armen Bersabe Jerejian Foundation, Inc., Paramus, New Jersey
for the Armenian Studies Program in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................. 5,000
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School................................................. 8,050
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contributions Fund, Princeton, New Jersey
for  em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................... 6,150
Thomas C. Jones, Bloomfield, Connecticut
400 shares of NAC Re Corporation common stock
for the Jane M. and Chester R. Jones Scholarship in the School
of Business Administration...................................................... 20,963
Frank R. Kennedy, Ann Arbor
475 shares of Walt Disney Company common stock
for support of the Law   School.................................................... 52,027
KeyCorp, Toledo, Ohio
for the Monet Exhibition Fund in the Museum of Art and
for W U OM /W VGR.............................................................. 10,500
Robert W. Kneebone Estate
144 shares of Exxon common stock and a cash gift
for the Robert W. and Ruth B. Kneebone Scholarship................................ 75,758
Frank and Mary Lamberson Foundation, Winter Park, Florida
for the Frank A. Lamberson Distinguished Lectureship in
the Medical School........................................... 25,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School......................................... 45,585
Jerry W. Levin, New York, New York
for the Jerry W. and Carol L. Levin Endowment in the College of Engineering........ 400,000
David E. Liddle, Portola Valley, California
for the David E. Liddle Fund in the College of Engineering........................... 45,000
Dorothy S. Lundahl Trust
for the University Library and for unrestricted support of
the  University  of M ichigan....................................................... 10,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment..................... 30,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research  in  the M edical School................................................ 16,663


337




May Meeting, 1998


Edward and Helen Mardigian Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Armenian Studies Program in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts............................................................5,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 1,450,000
Mental Illness Research Association, Auburn Hills
for research in the Medical School.........................................   5,000
Robert E. Meredith Trust
for the University Musical Society................................................ 5,000
Mexican Town Restaurant, Inc., Detroit
for the Retinoschsis Research Fund in the Medical School............................ 21,352
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Summer Projects Fund
in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering.............. 15,000
Mobil Foundation, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................... 5,085
H. Joan Morley, Ann Arbor
for the H. J. Morley Endowment in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts...........................................................      100,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School................................................ 96,250
NASDAQ/Pacific Horizon, Rockville, Maryland,
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 15,000
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School................................................ 15,000
Navistar International Transportation Corporation, Knoxville, Tennessee
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation
Research  Institute.............................................................. 15,000
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Westmont, Illinois
for the Center for Excellence Fund in the School of Dentistry.................. 25,000
Nortel, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program
in the School of Business Administration.......................................... 15,000
Otsuka Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Rockville, Maryland
for research  in  the College of Pharmacy........................................... 20,000
Robert D. Paul, New York, New York
for the Living Writers Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts............................................................. 5,000
Robert D. Pettis Estate and Trust
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 31,330
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for the Pfizer Fellowship in Pharmaceutics in the College of
Pharmacy and for support in the Medical School.................................... 21,000
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Inc., Washington, DC
for research  in  the  M edical School................................................ 10,000
Pharmacia and Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for em ployee  m atching  gifts...................................................... 10,186
Price Waterhouse, New York, New York
for the Price Waterhouse Scholarship in Accounting and the
Victor L. Bernard-Price Waterhouse LLP Collegiate Professorship
in the School of Business Administration.......................................... 35,000
Radiological Society of North America R & E, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School................................................. 9,166
Frank E. Robbins Memorial
for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarship in the Medical School................. 13,226
Marguerite S. Roll Trust
for the Lyle C. Roll Fund in the Medical School..................................... 65,000
Sandy Family Foundation, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for the Marjorie Sandy Research Fund in the Medical School.......................... 5,000
Paul E. Siegel Estate
for support of the  Law   School.................................................... 34,250
Richard D. Snell, Grants Pass, Oregon
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 10,000
St. Joseph Mercy Hospital Staff, Ann Arbor
for  W U OM /W VGR...............................................................6,000


338




May Meeting, 1998


Steelcase Foundation, Grand Rapids
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.......................................................5,045
Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of
Michigan-Dearborn..........................................50,000
Peter O. Steiner, Ann Arbor
235 shares of SBC Communications, Inc., common stock
for the Peter O. Steiner Dean's Merit Scholarship in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 9,892
Arthur C. Stevenson, Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania
for Werner E. Bachmann Memorial Lecture Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts.................................................. 5,000
Superior Consultant Holdings Corporation, Southfield
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 5,400
James M. Teahen, Jr., Estate
for support of the Law School and for the Alumni Association........................ 27,000
Raymond J. Tierney, Milford, Connecticut
119 shares of Chevron Corporation common stock and
82 shares of AT&T Corporation common stock
for the  University  Library....................................................... 16,098
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for em ployee  m atching  gifts...................................................... 13,756
Union Camp Charitable Trust
for the Associates Program in the School of Business
Administration, and for employee matching gifts.................................... 5,175
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for support in the College of Engineering, for the Tauber
Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering and
for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice
at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................................... 45,288
University of Michigan Alumni Association, Ann Arbor
for the Stadium Brick Project Fund in the Department
of Athletics and for the Critical Difference Endowment
at the University  of M ichigan-Flint................................................ 5,973
Julian H-C Wan, Amherst, New York
for support in  the M edical School.................................................. 5,000
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics,
in memory of Ron and Eileen Weiser............................................  100,000
Waypointe Companies, Inc., Holland
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 10,000
Waypointe Foundation, Holland
for support in the College of Engineering........................................... 5,000
Charles D. Weir, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 10,000
Weyerhaeuser Company Foundation, Tacoma, Washington
for the Weyerhaeuser Student Research Fellowships Fund
in the School of Natural Resources and Environment................................ 17,500
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Doris B. and Frank 0. Westover Scholarship and
the Elizabeth V. and Charles W. Gauss II Scholarship in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 15,000
Walter E. Wilson Trust
for the Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center in the College
of Engineering......................................................        300,000
Donald E. Zekany, Ann Arbor
for the Rose Mary Marin Scholarship in the School of Education...................... 20,000
Zenkel Foundation, White Plains, New York
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics,
for the Lois and Bruce Zenkel Faculty Lounge Fund in
the School of Business Administration, and for the Zenkel
Minority Scholarships in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts................................................................... 65,000


339




May Meeting, 1998


The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Rudolf Arnheim, Ann Arbor
174 slides and 111 photographs and reproductions documenting various historical art objects and
monuments for the Department of the History of Art
Gregory W. Baumann, Ann Arbor
four cabinets and related accessories for television equipment for the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Coleman Instrument Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
various process instrumentation equipment for the Department of Electrical Engineering and
Applied Mechanics
CTC Productions & Sports, Farmington Hills
video material for the Department of Athletics
John C. Dann, Dexter
a collection of 18th and 19th century books and manuscripts and a hand-colored lithograph by
Frederick DeBourg Richards for the Clements Library
John H. D'Arms, New York, New York
265 books for the Department of Classical Studies
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
HP computer peripherals and accessories for the College of Engineering
Irwin T. Holtzman, Bloomfield Hills
various books and other printed items by and about William Faulkner for the Special Collections
Library
IBM Corporation, Rochester, Minnesota
a laptop computer for the Center for Human Growth and Development
Ruth Iglehart, Ann Arbor
a collection of rare books on the subject of women and gender for the Institute for Research on
Women and Gender
Herbert W. Johe, Cedar Key, Florida
38 watercolors by Herbert W. Johe for the Museum of Art
John K. Lark, Birmingham
two color woodblock prints by Onchi Koshiro for the Museum of Art
Lewis & Knopf Certified Public Accountants, Flint
a computer and related equipment for the University of Michigan-Flint
Thomas S. Porter, Ann Arbor
the Printworld Directory of contemporary prints and prices sixth edition 1994, "Mock of the
Times" collection for the School of Art & Design
Ann T. VanRosevelt, Ann Arbor
133 books for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Celeste A. Brusati, Ann Arbor         John D. Muccigrosso, Ann Arbor
Dorothy G. Davis, Flint               Ohaus Corporation, Florham Park, New Jersey
Gregory Dobrov, Ann Arbor             John G. Pedley, Ann Arbor
Lauren D. Friesen, Swartz Creek       Robert M. Warner, Ann Arbor
Personnel Actions. Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that
Interim Associate Vice President Paul Spradlin, who has been employed at
the University since 1952, has decided to retire. He reviewed Mr. Spradlin's
service history and praised his contributions to the institution over the years.
He noted that Mr. Spradlin would continue to serve on a part-time basis as
senior counsel to the executive vice president and chief financial officer.
Executive Vice President Kasdin also called attention to a recommendation for the appointment of Henry ("Hank") D. Baler as interim associate
vice president for business operations. He noted that a search would be
conducted to fill the position on a permanent basis.


340




May Meeting, 1998


There followed a round of applause for Interim Associate Vice President
Spradlin. Regent Power commented that the Regents had come to rely on
Mr. Spradlin's experience, knowledge, and commitment to the institution.
On behalf of the Regents, he wished him the best and thanked him for his
many years of dedicated service.
President Bollinger expressed his appreciation to Mr. Spradlin for his
service, recounting his interactions with him when he was dean of the Law
School.
Executive Vice President Kasdin also pointed out the appointment of
Timothy P. Slottow as associate vice president for finance.
Provost Cantor pointed out the recommendation for the establishment
of 30 unendowed school/college professorships.
Annual Recommendations for Promotions. Provost Cantor submitted
for approval the annual recommendations for promotion to professor, associate professor, and assistant professor. She cited several individual cases as
examples of the integration of research, scholarship, creative performance,
and commitment to undergraduate education that typifies the professoriate
at Michigan. President Bollinger noted that he and Provost Cantor had been
"absolutely overwhelmed by the sterling quality of the research and teaching"
of the promotion candidates.
Regent Power observed that in reviewing the recommendations, he had
been struck by the emphasis placed on teaching as well as scholarship, and
the fact that excellence in both areas is necessary for promotion. Regent
Newman expressed agreement and also noted that she appreciated Provost
Cantor's descriptive case histories of representative cases.
Chancellor Renick submitted the promotion recommendations for the
Dearborn campus, and Provost McLaughlin submitted the promotion recommendations for the Flint campus.
PROMOTIONS TO THE RANKS OF PROFESSOR,
ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, AND ASSISTANT PROFESSOR
Effective September 1, 1998
College of Architecture & Urban Planning
Dewar, Margaret, Associate Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, promoted to
Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure
School of Business Administration
Gordon, Michael D., Associate Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure,
promoted to Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure
Young, Martin R., Assistant Professor of Statistics and Management Science promoted to
Associate Professor of Statistics and Management Science, with tenure
School of Dentistrv
Chiego, Daniel, Jr., Associate Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, promoted to Associate
Professor of Dentistry, with tenure


341




May Meeting, 1998


Mooney, David J., Assistant Professor of Dentistry promoted to Associate Professor of
Dentistry, with tenure (also holds an appointment as Assistant Professor of Chemical
Engineering and Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering)
Taichman, Russell S., Assistant Professor of Dentistry promoted to Associate Professor of
Dentistry, with tenure
Trotman, Carroll-Ann E. R., Assistant Professor of Dentistry promoted to Associate
Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
School of Education
Ball, Arnetha F., Assistant Professor of Education promoted to Associate Professor of
Education, with tenure
Krajcik, Joseph, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, promoted to Professor of
Education, with tenure
Lubeck, Sally, Assistant Professor of Education promoted to Associate Professor of
Education, with tenure
Pintrich, Paul, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, promoted to Professor of
Education, with tenure
College of Engineering
Adriaens, Peter, Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering promoted to
Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure
Bozer, Yavuz, Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure,
promoted to Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure
Fessler, Jeffrey, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and
Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering promoted to Associate Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, and Associate Professor
of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure (also holds an appointment as Assistant
Professor of Internal Medicine)
Gallimore, Alec, Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering promoted to Associate
Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure
Hryciw, Roman D., Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with
tenure, promoted to Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure
Hu, Shixin, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics promoted
to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure
Islam, Mohammed, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, promoted to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure
Jahanian, Farnam, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, without tenure, promoted
to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
LaFortune, Stephane, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure promoted to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure
Laird, John, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, promoted to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure
Mazumder, Pinaki, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, promoted to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure
Najafi, Khalil, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, promoted to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure
Rebeiz, Gabriel, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, promoted to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure
Savage, Phillip, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, promoted to
Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure
Thouless, Michael, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
without tenure, promoted to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and
Applied Mechanics, with tenure
Wellman, Michael, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
without tenure, promoted to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, with tenure


342




May Meeting, 1998


School of Information
MacKie-Mason, Jeffrey, Associate Professor of Information, with tenure, promoted to
Professor of Information, with tenure (also holds an appointment as Associate
Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Associate Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy)
Division of Kinesiology
Brown, Susan H. C., Assistant Professor of Kinesiology promoted to Associate Professor of
Kinesiology, with tenure
Law School
Croley, Steven P., Assistant Professor of Law promoted to Professor of Law, with tenure
Logue, Kyle D., Assistant Professor of Law promoted to Professor of Law, with tenure
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Basu, Susanto, Assistant Professor of Economics promoted to Associate Professor of
Economics, with tenure
Bound, John, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, promoted to Professor of
Economics, with tenure
Campbell, Myron K., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, promoted to Professor of
Physics, with tenure
Goldberg, Deborah E., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, promoted to Professor of
Biology, with tenure
Goldstein, Richard A., Assistant Professor of Chemistry promoted to Associate Professor of
Chemistry, with tenure
Hancock, David J., Assistant Professor of History promoted to Associate Professor of
History, with tenure
Heirich, Max A., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, promoted to Professor of
Sociology, with tenure
Huber, John D., Assistant Professor of Political Science promoted to Associate Professor of
Political Science, with tenure
Israel, Kali A. K., Assistant Professor of History promoted to Associate Professor of History,
with tenure
Joyce, James M., Assistant Professor of Philosophy promoted to Associate Professor of
Philosophy, with tenure
Messick, Brinkley M., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, promoted to
Professor of Anthropology, with tenure
Moss, Thylias, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
promoted to Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure
Pichersky, Eran, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, promoted to Professor of
Biology, with tenure
Powers, Martin J., Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, promoted to Professor
of History of Art, with tenure
Prins, Johanna H., Assistant Professor of English Language and Comparative Literature
promoted to Associate Professor of English Language and Comparative Literature, with
tenure
Schmidt, Christoph F., Assistant Professor of Physics promoted to Associate Professor of
Physics, with tenure
Williams, David R., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, promoted to Professor of
Sociology, with tenure
Zhang, Jun, Assistant Professor of Psychology promoted to Associate Professor of
Psychology, with tenure
Medical School
Aldrich, Michael. S., M.D., Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure, promoted to
Professor of Neurology, with tenure
Bernstein, Steven J., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine promoted to Associate
Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Beydoun, Ahmad A., M.D., Assistant Professor of Neurology promoted to Associate Professor
of Neurology, with tenure


343




May Meeting, 1998


Bishop, Dennis K., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery and Assistant Professor of
Microbiology and Immunology promoted to Associate Professor of Surgery, with
tenure, and Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, without tenure
Bradford, Carol R., M.D., Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology promoted to Associate
Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure
Bromberg, Jonathan S., M.D., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, without tenure, promoted to Professor of
Surgery, with tenure, and Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, without tenure
Buchman, Steven R., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery promoted to Associate Professor
of Surgery, with tenure
Carpenter, James E., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery promoted to Associate Professor
of Surgery, with tenure
Chrisp, Clarence E., Associate Professor of Comparative Pathology, with tenure, promoted to
Professor of Comparative Pathology, with tenure
Clarke, Michael F., M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, promoted to
Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Del Valle, John, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, promoted to
Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
DeLancey, John O., M.D., Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure,
promoted to Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure
Ellis, James H., M.D., Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure, promoted to Professor
of Surgery, without tenure (also holds an appointment as professor of Radiology, with
tenure)
Fay, William P., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine promoted to Associate
Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Fendrick, A. Mark, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, and
Assistant Professor of Health Management and Policy, School of Public Health,
promoted to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, and
Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, without tenure, School of Public
Health
Foster, Norman L., M.D., Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure, promoted to
Professor of Neurology, with tenure
Frey, Kirk A., M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Neurology, without tenure, promoted to Professor of Internal Medicine,
with tenure, and Professor of Neurology, without tenure
Hanna, Gregory L., M.D., Assistant Professor of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry promoted
to Associate Professor of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, with tenure
Hasler, William Lee, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine promoted to Associate
Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Hollister, Scott J., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Assistant Professor of Mechanical
Engineering and Applied Mechanics, and Assistant Professor of Biomedical
Engineering promoted to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Associate
Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, without tenure, and
Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure
Holzman, Lawrence B., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine promoted to Associate
Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Innis, Jeffrey W., M. D., Assistant Professor of Human Genetics, Assistant Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases promoted to Associate Professor of Human
Genetics, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, without tenure
Jacobs, Lloyd A., M.D., Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure, promoted to
Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Kang, Sewon, M.D., Assistant Professor of Dermatology promoted to Associate Professor of
Dermatology, with tenure
Katz, Steven J., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, and
Assistant Professor of Health Management and Policy, School of Public Health,
promoted to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, and
Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, without tenure, School of Public
Health
Kazerooni, Ella A., M.D., Assistant Professor of Radiology promoted to Associate Professor of
Radiology, with tenure
Klinkman, Michael S., M.D., Assistant Professor of Family Medicine promoted to Associate
Professor of Family Medicine, with tenure


344




May Meeting, 1998


Logsdon, Craig D., Associate Professor of Physiology, with tenure promoted to Professor of
Physiology, with tenure
Luke, Barbara J., Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, promoted
to Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure
Marentette, Lawrence J., M.D., Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, without tenure,
promoted to Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure
Markel, Howard, M.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
promoted to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure
Marks, Rory M., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine promoted to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Martel, Mary K., Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology promoted to Associate Professor
of Radiation Oncology, with tenure
Merchant, Juanita L., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant
Professor of Physiology promoted to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with
tenure, and Associate Professor of Physiology, without tenure
Minoshima, Satoshi, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine promoted to Associate
Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Peinta, Kenneth J., M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure, promoted to Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Surgery, without tenure
Pierce, Lori J., M.D., Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology promoted to Associate
Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure
Remick, Daniel G., Jr., M.D., Associate Professor Pathology, with tenure, promoted to
Professor of Pathology, with tenure
Reynolds, R. Kevin, M.D., Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology promoted to
Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure
Ross, Charles W., M.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology promoted to Associate Professor of
Pathology, with tenure
Roubidoux, Marilyn A., M.D., Assistant Professor of Radiology promoted to Associate
Professor of Radiology, with tenure
Samuelson, Linda C., Assistant Professor of Physiology promoted to Associate Professor of
Physiology, with tenure
Simpson, Robert U., Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, promoted to
Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure
Strickberger, S. Adam, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine promoted to Associate
Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Swaroop, Anand, Assistant Professor of Human Genetics promoted to Associate Professor of
Human Genetics, without tenure (also holds an appointment as Associate Professor of
Ophthalmology, with tenure)
Thompson, Debra A., Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Assistant Professor of
Biological Chemistry promoted to Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure,
and Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure
Wakefield, Thomas W., M.D., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, promoted to
Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Young, Elizabeth A., M.D., Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, promoted to
Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure
Zink, Brian J., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery promoted to Associate Professor of
Surgery, with tenure
School of Music
Blackstone, Jerry, Associate Professor of Music (Conducting), without tenure, promoted to
Associate Professor of Music (Conducting), with tenure
Greene, Arthur, Associate professor of Music (Piano), with tenure promoted to Professor of
Music (Piano), with tenure
Masson, Annette, Assistant Professor of Theatre and Drama promoted to Associate Professor
of Theatre and Drama, with tenure
Mead, Andrew W, Associate Professor of Music (Theory), with tenure, promoted to Professor
of Music (Theory), with tenure
Rush, Stephen, Assistant Professor of Music (Dance/Music Technology) promoted to
Associate Professor of Music (Dance/Music Technology), with tenure
Schotten, Yizhak, Associate Professor of Music (Viola), with tenure, promoted to Professor of
Music (Viola), with tenure


345




May Meeting, 1998


Sheng, Bright, Assistant Professor of Music (Composition/Music Theory) promoted to
Associate Professor of Music (Composition/Music Theory), with tenure
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Brown, Terry J., Associate Professor of Landscape Architecture, with tenure, promoted to
Professor of Landscape Architecture, with tenure
School of Nursing
Loveland, Carol, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, promoted to Professor of
Nursing, with tenure
Sampselle, Carolyn, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, promoted to Professor of
Nursing, with tenure (also holds appointment as Associate Professor of Women's
Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Associate
Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without tenure, Medical School)
Stein, Karen F., Assistant Professor of Nursing promoted to Associate Professor of Nursing,
with tenure
College of Pharmacy
Kirking, Duane M., Associate Professor of Pharmacy Administration, with tenure, promoted
to Professor of Pharmacy Administration, with tenure
Woodward, Ronald W., Associate Professor of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, with
tenure, promoted to Professor of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, with
tenure
School of Public Health
Becker, Mark P., Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure promoted to Professor of
Biostatistics, with tenure
Harlow, Sioban D., Assistant Professor of Epidemiology promoted to Associate Professor of
Epidemiology, with tenure
Jacobson, Peter D., Assistant Professor of Health Management and Policy promoted to
Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure
Janz, Nancy K., Assistant Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education promoted to
Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure
Strawderman, Robert L., Assistant Professor of Biostatistics promoted to Associate Professor
of Biostatistics, with tenure
Social Work
Lockery, Shirley A., Assistant Professor of Social Work promoted to Associate Professor of
Social Work, with tenure
Ortega, Robert M., Assistant Professor of Social Work promoted to Associate Professor of
Social Work, with tenure
Taylor, Robert J., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, promoted to Professor of
Social Work, with tenure
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Arora, Poonam, Assistant Professor of English promoted to Associate Professor of English,
with tenure
Lempert, Lora B., Assistant Professor of Sociology promoted to Associate Professor of
Sociology, with tenure
Murray, Kent S., Assistant Professor of Geology promoted to Associate Professor of Geology,
with tenure
Zhao, Jennifer J., Assistant Professor of Mathematics promoted to Associate Professor of
Mathematics, with tenure
UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science
Huntley, Hugh, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering promoted to Associate
Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure
Orady, Elsayed A., Associate Professor of Industrial Systems Engineering, with tenure,
promoted to Professor of Industrial Systems Engineering, with tenure
Zhang, Yi, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering promoted to Associate Professor of
Mechanical Engineering, with tenure


346




May Meeting, 1998


UM-Dearborn School of Management
Green, Brian P., Assistant Professor of Accounting promoted to Associate Professor of
Accounting, with tenure
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Alexander, Lois, Assistant Professor of Music promoted to Associate Professor of Music,
with tenure
Kahn, Margaret F., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, promoted to
Professor of Political Science, with tenure
Rosen, Lois M., Associate Professor of English promoted to Professor of English, with tenure
Schilling, Kenneth E., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, promoted to
Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
Thomas, Charles B., Jr., Assistant Professor of Sociology promoted to Associate Professor of
Sociology, with tenure
UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Pfalzer, Lucinda A., Associate Professor of Physical Therapy, with tenure, promoted to
Professor of Physical Therapy, with tenure
UM-Flint School of Management
Moreland, Keith, Assistant Professor of Accounting promoted to Associate Professor of
Accounting, with tenure
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Feeley-Harnik, Gilliam, Ph.D., Professor of Anthropology
Fulton, William, Ph.D., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, and M. S. Keeler II Professor
of Mathematics, five year term, July 1, 1998
Hanson, Gordon H., Ph.D. Associate Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Associate Professor of International Business, School of Business
Administration
Newson, Adele S., Ph.D., Professor of African-American Studies, with tenure, and Director
of the African-American Studies Program, three year term, UM Flint College of Arts
and Sciences
Zhou, Bing, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Physics
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Genne, Beth, Assistant Professor of Art History, Residential College, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, promoted to Associate Professor of Art History, Residential
College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1997 (also holds
appointment as Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure, School of Music)
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Dziekan, Julie A., reappointed Assistant Dean, School of Management, UM-Dearborn, three
year term
Israel, Barbara A., reappointed Chair, Department of Health Behavior and Health
Education, one year term
Little, Roderick J. A., reappointed Chair, Department of Biostatistics, September 1, 1998


347




May Meeting, 1998


LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Harabetian, Eduard, Associate Professor of Mathematics, research leave, September 1, 1998 -May 31, 1999 (previously approved September 1, 1997-May 31, 1998)
Lewis, Donald J., Professor of Mathematics, duty off campus leave extended, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999 (previously approved July 1, 1995-June 30, 1998)
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective June 1, 1998
Establishing Professorships
Jerry W. and Carol L. Levin Professorship in Engineering.
Twelve Additional Distinguished University Professorships. The Regents
approved the establishment of twelve additional Distinguished University Professorships,
bringing the total to thirty.
Thirty Additional Unendowed School/College Professorships. The Regents
approved the establishment of thirty additional unendowed school/ college professorships,
bringing the total to ninety-four.
Renaming Professorships
KPMG Professorship in Accounting, School of Business Administration
(previously the Peat Marwick Main and Company Professorship in Professional
Accounting)
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Baler, Henry D., Interim Associate Vice President for Business Operations, May 18, 1998
Chaffin, Don B., G. Lawton and Louise G. Johnson Professor of Engineering, Professor of
Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, and Professor of Occupational
Health, without tenure, School of Public Health, reappointed the G. Lawton and Louise
G. Johnson Professor of Engineering, College of Engineering, five year term
Collins, Anthony C., reappointed the Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor of Journalism,
eight month term
Koren, Yoram, Paul G. Goebel Professor of Engineering and Professor of Mechanical
Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure, reappointed the Paul G. Goebel
Professor of Engineering, five year term
Munzel, Erica A., Assistant Dean and Admissions Officer, Law School, two year term,
May 1, 1998
Rabe, Barry G., from Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure,
School of Public Health, to Associate Professor of Environmental Politics, with tenure,
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Slottow, Timothy P., Associate Vice President for Finance, June 1, 1998
Ulaby, Fawwaz T., R. Jamison and Betty Williams Professor of Engineering and Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, reappointed the R. Jamison and Betty
Williams Professor of Engineering, five year term
Wise, Kensall D., J. Reid and Polly Anderson Professor of Manufacturing Technology,
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, and Professor
of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, reappointed the J. Reid and Polly Anderson
Professor of Manufacturing, five year term


348




May Meeting, 1998


Committee appointments. The following committee appointments were
submitted:
School of Business Administration Executive Committee
Bagozzi, Richard P., July 1, 1998-June 30, 2000, vice Michael D. Johnson, term expired
Crocker, Keith J., July 1, 1998-June 30, 2000, vice Joel B. Slemrod, term expired
College of Pharmacy Executive Committee
Garcia, George A., July 1, 1998-June 30, 2001, vice Henry I. Mosberg, term expired
School of Social Work Executive Committee
Danziger, Sheldon N., September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999, vice Berit Ingersoll-Dayton, on
sabbatical leave
Taylor, Robert J., September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999, vice Diane K. Vinokur, on sabbatical leave
Personnel reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Law School
West, Mark D., J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, September 1, 1998
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Mariotti, Josephine R., Doctorate, Lecturer II in History of Art, September 1, 1997
Medical School
Bailey, Janet, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Deegan, Thomas J., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery and Clinical Instructor II in
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, April 1, 1998
Delaney-Sathy, Lydia 0., Lecturer in Radiology
Hansen, Ronnell, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Hyde-Hoff, Donna L., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Neimatallah, Mohammed A., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Picolo, W. Vincent, Jr., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, May 1, 1998
Quinn, Timothy J., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Song, Julie H., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Varma, Manish K., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Washington, Edward J., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Anesthesiology
Wineinger, David K., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
School of Music
Tapia, James R., D.M.A., Assistant Professor of Music (Conducting), September 1, 1998
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Medical School
Weitzel, William F., III, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, December 1, 1997
(previously reported as Lecturer in Internal Medicine)


349




May Meeting, 1998


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Art and Design
Athey, Brian D., Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Medical School, also
appointed Assistant Professor of Art, School of Art and Design, January 1, 1998
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Cooper, George H., from Lecturer II to Lecturer III in English Language and Literature,
September 1, 1998
Kozuka, Misao, from Lecturer II to Lecturer III in Japanese, September 1, 1997
Medical School
Albucher, Ronald C., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry,
January 1, 1998
Nettles, Arie L., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, also appointed
Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, July 1, 1998
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective May 1-June 30, 1998
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
McNamara, Leo F., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Clipson, Colin W., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, and Director of Integrated Design Initiatives, School of Art and Design,
retirement furlough
School of Education
Ball, Arnetha F., Assistant Professor of Education, sabbatical leave
College of Engineering
Compton, Kevin J., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, sabbatical leave
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Cureton, Richard D., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
sabbatical leave
Darwall, Stephen L., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave
Delbanco, Nicholas F., Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1999
Egger, Rebecca M., Assistant Professor of English and Assistant Professor of Women's
Studies, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1998
Faller, Lincoln B., Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education and Long Range Planning
and Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1998
Fulton, Alice, Professor of English, with tenure, duty off campus
Gibbard, Allan L., Richard B. Brandt Distinguished University Professor of Philosophy and
Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave


350




May Meeting, 1998


Goldstein, Laurence A., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Gonzalez, John M., Assistant Professor of American Culture and Assistant Professor of
English, duty off campus
Henderson, Andrea K., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1999
Knott, John R., Jr., Professor of English, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1999
Larson, Kerry C., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1 -May 31, 1999
Paul, William J., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Film and Video Studies, without tenure, personal leave
Porter, David L., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 1998
Vicinus, Martha J., Eliza M. Mosher Distinguished University Professor, Professor of
English and Women's Studies, with tenure, and Professor of History, without tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998, and duty off campus, January 1 -May 31, 1999
Medical School
Welsh, Michael J., Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
May 5, 1998-May 4, 1999
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Duke, Richard D., Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, retired
Pastalan, Leon A., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, June 30, 1998
School of Business Administration
Jeong, Byungkee, Lecturer in Business Administration, term complete, March 31, 1998
School of Education
Taylor, Edgar C., Jr., Lecturer in Education, retired, August 31, 1998
Vander Putten, James J., Lecturer in Education, term complete, April 30, 1998
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Alien, Sally L., Professor of Biology, with tenure, retired
Cherry, William A., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, term complete
Croise, Florian L., Lecturer II in French, term complete
Daniel, E. Valentine, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Director, International
Institute, resigned
Fast, Irene, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retired
Fossum, Jarl E., Professor of New Testament Studies, with tenure, resigned, April 1, 1998
Frisch, Craig R., Lecturer III in Italian, term complete
Gibson, Gregory C., Assistant Professor of Biology, term complete, June 30, 1998
Greenberg, Daniel, Lecturer I in Psychology, term complete, April 30, 1997
Janecke, Joachim W., Professor of Physics, with tenure, retired
Jones, Lawrence W., Professor of Physics, with tenure, retired
Kra, Bryna R., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, resigned
Malachowski-Pasek, Ewa, Lecturer II in Polish Culture and Literature, term complete,
April 30, 1998
Mermier, Guy R., Professor of French, with tenure, and Director of Medieval and
Renaissance Collegium, retired
Ramanujan M.S., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, retired
Reister, Pamela K., Lecturer II in History of Art, term complete, April 30, 1998
Ronen, Irena, Lecturer II in Russian Literature, term complete, December 31, 1997
Sloat, Barbara M., Lecturer III in Biology, Residential College, retired
Stevens, John D., Professor of Communication Studies, with tenure, retired
Vergunova, Ludmila, Lecturer II in Slavic Linguistics, term complete, April 30, 1998


351




May Meeting, 1998


Winn, James A., Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Professor of Music (Literature and Music), without tenure, School of Music, resigned
Medical School
Caplan, Michael J., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pathology, resigned, April 24, 1998
Gabrielsen, Trygve 0., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, retired, June 30, 1998
Ging, Rosalie J., Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, retired, February 28, 1998
Tashian, Richard E., Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, retired, April 30, 1998
School of Public Health
Bates, Elizabeth W., Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, term complete, May 31, 1996
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Riehl, C. Barbara, Lecturer in Mathematics and Statistics, retired, June 30, 1998
Zuck, Louis V., Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, retired, April 30, 1998
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Fadous, Raymond Y., Associate Professor of Computer Science, with tenure, deceased,
April 13, 1998
Retirement memoirs. Provost Cantor submitted 26 retirement memoirs.
Sally L. Allen, professor of biology, will retire from active faculty status on
May 31, 1998, following 31 years on the faculty at the University of Michigan.
Professor Allen received her A.B. degree from Vassar College in 1946 and
her Ph.D. degree from the University of Chicago in 1953. At Chicago, she
worked on the genetics of the mouse with two of the most famous geneticists
of the twentieth century, Sewall Wright and George Snell, who later received
a Nobel Prize for the work on which she participated. Professor Allen came to
the University of Michigan in 1953 as a research assistant in the Department
of Zoology, where she carried out research in the single celled ciliates. She
was promoted to associate professor of botany in 1967 and professor in 1971.
She also served as an associate dean of the College of LS&A from 1988-91.
For most of her career, Professor Allen's research has focused on the
genetics and evolution of the ciliated protozoa, an unusual group of organisms
with a bizarre life cycle that have produced many fundamental insights into the
functioning of all organisms. She is recognized as a national and international
leader in this field. For many years, she has served as editor of Genetics, the
field's premier scientific journal.
Professor Allen's classroom activities have centered around the large
junior-senior majors course in genetics. She strove long and hard to make
improvements in this course and to have it keep pace with the revolutionary
advances in this field. Her devotion to the honors course in genetics has
been much appreciated by past and present students alike.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Sally L.
Allen professor emerita of biology.
Richard D. Duke, professor of urban planning in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1998.
Professor Duke received his B.S. degree (1952) from the University of
Maryland, his B.S. (1954) and Master of Urban Planning (1956) degrees from
Michigan State University, and his Ph.D. degree (1964) from the University
of Michigan. From 1958-67, he was an assistant professor (1958-63), associate


352




May Meeting, 1998


professor (1963-67), professor (1967), and director of the Urban-Regional
Research Institute (1966-67) at Michigan State University. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty as professor of urban planning in December 1967.
Professor Duke served as chair of the Urban Planning Program from
1976-82. He has taught a range of graduate-level courses to urban planning
students, with a particular concentration on gaming. He has served on a
number of dissertation committees and has also been an active member of
many program, college, and University committees.
Professor Duke has had an outstanding career as an educator. He is a
member of NASAGA (North American Gaming and Simulation Association)
and a founding member of both ISAGA (International Simulation and Gaming
Association) and IPEG (International Policy Exercise Group). A pioneer in the
field of gaming, he is internationally recognized for his contributions in the
field of simulation and gaming, not only for his theoretical work, but also for
the significant contributions he has made in making this approach to strategic
planning known throughout the world. He has authored numerous games,
books, and articles on gaming and simulation.
Professor Duke has received many awards, including the ISAGA 25th
Anniversary Award in 1995 for the founding of ISAGA and the ISAGA Medal
and the Medaille Praga Didacta in 1989. He received a National Science
Foundation Faculty Fellowship in 1962-63; studied in Germany as a Fulbright
Scholar in 1969; and was a fellow in the Netherlands Institute for Advanced
Study in 1973-74.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Richard D.
Duke professor emeritus of urban planning.
Joe G. Eisley, professor of aerospace engineering, will retire from
active faculty status on May 31, 1998, following a 42-year career at the
University of Michigan.
Professor Eisley received his B.S. degree in aeronautical engineering in
1951 from Parks College of St. Louis University and his M.S. and Ph.D.
degrees in 1952 and 1956, respectively, from the California Institute of
Technology. He joined the University of Michigan as an assistant professor
in 1956 and was promoted to associate professor in 1960 and professor in
1965. Professor Eisley also served as associate dean for curriculum and
continuing education in the College of Engineering from 1967-81.
Professor Eisley has done research in the areas of structural dynamics,
flutter, and computer graphics and has published extensively in the area of
nonlinear vibrations. He has been very effective in the teaching of structural
mechanics and in converting academic ideas into industrial practice. In 1989,
he published the textbook, Mechanics of Elastic Structures. Professor
Eisley's students have consistently rated him as an outstanding teacher. He
pioneered the use of energy methods in structural mechanics and guided the
department's program in structures in that direction. This has made the
department a leader in the methods that have culminated in the broad use of
the finite element method, with many students from other departments
attending the aerospace engineering department's structures courses.
One of Professor Eisley's emphases has been to increase minority and
female enrollment in the College of Engineering. He has served as a contact


353




May Meeting, 1998


for visits by minority students and for summer visits by women sponsored by the
Society for Women Engineers. He has served on the University's President's
Commission on Minority Affairs. Professor Eisley has also devoted much
effort to serving as undergraduate program advisor for aerospace engineering,
and has served on the departmental curriculum committee. He has been the
director of the Space Grant College activities at Michigan, dealing with
outreach at all educational levels, encouraging elementary school children to
become interested in space activities and high school students to take the
courses necessary to pursue a career in space-related activities.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Joe G. Eisley
professor emeritus of aerospace engineering.
Daniel N. Fader, professor of English, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 1998.
Professor Fader received his B.A. (1952) and M.A. (1954) degrees from
Cornell University and his Ph.D. degree (1962) from Stanford University.
He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an instructor in 1961. He
was promoted to assistant professor in 1963, associate professor in 1968, and
professor in 1973.
Professor Fader was, above all, a great storyteller, and in his teaching
(especially of Shakespeare) he drew students into the great narratives of
English literature. As a scholar he was a storyteller too, and he brought to
his work a persuasive and even compelling brilliance. He was in great
demand as a lecturer and a commencement speaker.
Early in his career at Michigan, he began working with juvenile offenders
at the Maxey School in Whitmore Lake. From his work with young people
there, he wrote a modest pamphlet: "Teaching English at Boys Training School"
(1965). Working with Professor Elton B. McNeil, he enlarged this small effort
into Hooked on Books (1966), a revolutionary affirmation of the transforming
power of literacy that has gone through successive editions and still influences teachers, parents, and students to believe that reading changes
children's lives.
Professor Fader also believed that the literacy of Michigan students
could be transformed if only teachers would be attentive to students' voices.
In 1976, he was named founding chair of the English Composition Board, a
faculty body which oversees literacy efforts in the College of LS&A. With his
colleagues, he visited high schools throughout the state to explain what kind
of literacy was expected at the U-M and how important it was that students
come prepared to learn.
Though Hooked on Books was his most influential publication, his books
The Naked Children (1971) and Paul and I Discover America (1975) were
also widely read. The former is an account of pupils disabled by the schools
in our nation's capital, the latter a road book in which he examined patriotism
and its transformation from his generation to his son's. Professor Fader told
stories about caring for others, and made others care to tell stories too. He
remains particularly proud of having been the 1952 National Collegiate
Billiards Champion.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Daniel N. Fader
professor emeritus of English.


354




May Meeting, 1998


Irene Fast, professor of psychology, will retire from active faculty status
on May 31, 1998.
Professor Fast received her A.B. degree from Bethel College in Kansas in
1951 and her Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan in 1958. From
1958-63, she was a lecturer in the Department of Psychology. She left in 1963
to serve as chief of psychological services at the San Fernando Valley Child
Guidance Clinic in California but returned to the University of Michigan in
1965 as a lecturer in psychology. She was promoted to associate professor in
1968, professor in 1973, and professor of psychology in the Department of
Psychiatry in 1974. She served as associate director of the counseling center
from 1982-87.
Within the department, Professor Fast played a central, prolonged, and
demanding role in formal courses and agency supervision in the diagnostic
training of clinical psychologists. Also greatly valued was her assistance in
the complicated transition years as the Counseling Center was transformed
into the current University Center for the Child and Family.
Professor Fast's scholarly contributions have had a significant impact,
beginning with her early work on bereavement and on step-parenting and her
papers demonstrating the vital role of personality variables in vocational
choice. Subsequent investigations produced new perspectives on depression
and borderline personalities, especially with respect to nature of borderline
psychotic children. But perhaps her most compelling studies were set forth in
her books, Event Theory: A Piaget-L-reud Integration; Gender Identity: A
Differentiation Perspective; and the forthcoming Selving: A Relational Theory of
Self-Organization. Event Theory is a powerful recasting of concepts of early
development, pressing far beyond earlier work. Gender Identity builds a richly
textured new formulation of gender differentiation from wide-ranging sources
of evidence. Selving seeks to bring psychology back to the study of the
neglected I-Self (self as subject) component of William James' distinction of
I-Self vs. Me-Self (self as object), in the process drawing a persuasive picture of
a dynamic, relational self. Recognition of this remarkable set of contributions
has led to numerous roles on editorial and advisory boards and to the awarding
of distinguished honors from the American Psychological Association.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Irene Fast
professor emerita of psychology.
Carl Gans, professor of zoology in the Department of Biology and
adjunct curator, Museum of Zoology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1998, following 25
years of service.
A native of Germany, Professor Gans fled the Nazis with his family and
entered the United States in 1939. He received his B.M.E. degree from New
York University in 1944 and then served in the U.S. Army from 1944-46. He
received his M.S. degree from Columbia University in 1950 and his Ph.D.
degree from Harvard University in 1957. From 1958-71, he was a faculty
member at the University of Buffalo (now SUNY at Buffalo). He joined the
University of Michigan faculty in 1971 as professor and chair of the Department
of Zoology.


355




May Meeting, 1998


During his tenure as chair of the zoology department, Professor Gans
participated in the merger of the Department of Botany and Zoology into
what became the present Department of Biology. Following his term as
chair, he continued as professor and served on numerous university and
college committees, including the LSA Executive Committee. In 1996, he
assumed the latest of many visiting professorships, this one in the Department
of Zoology at the University of Texas, Austin.
Professor Gans' research specialty is functional morphology, the fusion
of anatomy and physiology that aims to interpret biological structure in
terms of its function. Within this specialty, he has concentrated on reptiles
and amphibians, contributing importantly to such fundamental topics as
breathing, eating, and locomotion. His classroom activities were centered on
the course, "The Biology of Vertebrates," which was famous among undergraduates for the demanding laboratory involving vertebrate dissection;
among graduate student instructors for the high standards imposed; and
among counselors for the distinction of being one of the few courses that
students praised even when they did not received a good grade.
Professor Gans is known worldwide, due to the many working visits that
he made to universities and museums all over the globe and to his collecting
trips, exemplified by his role as founding patron of the Irula Snake-catcher's
Cooperative Society in Madra, India.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Carl Gans
professor emeritus of zoology.
Rosalie J. Ging, M.D., assistant professor of psychiatry, retired from
active faculty status on February 28, 1998, after a productive career as an
administrator, teacher, and clinician.
Dr. Ging received her A.B. degree in 1942 and her M.D. degree in 1945,
both from the University of Michigan. She completed a psychiatric residency
at the University of Kansas Medical Center in 1952. She joined the University of Michigan as an instructor in 1957 and was promoted to assistant
professor in 1965.
Dr. Ging was appointed as a staff psychiatrist at the Veteran's Administration Medical Center in 1956. She served as chief of the psychiatry service at
the Ann Arbor Veteran's Administration Medical Center from 1960-84 and as
acting chief from 1984-86. She was responsible for administering and coordinating clinical supervision and education of psychiatric residents and medical
students. She has been a fellow of the American Psychiatric Association since
1967 and was selected as Federal Professional Woman of the Year in Michigan
in 1972.
Dr. Ging continues her clinical activity as an attending psychiatrist with
the Consultation-Liaison Service. She is a consultant in the MCD Cardiology
Clinic. Dr. Ging's research activity includes a study of Cushing's patients
and involvement in Telemedicine for the Department of Psychiatry.
Dr. Ging's devoted loyalty as administrator, teacher, clinician, and
mentor has been recognized over the years. Her insightfulness, expertise, and
contributions to the department have been consistently recognized by
faculty, trainees, and staff.


356




May Meeting, 1998


The Regents now salute this distinguished member of the faculty for her
dedicated service by naming Rosalie J. Ging assistant professor emerita of
psychiatry.
Assya K. Humesky, professor of Slavic languages and literatures, will
retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1998.
Born in the former Soviet Ukraine, during World War II Professor
Humesky lived under German occupation and was sent to Austria to do forced
labor until the end of the war. After spending two years in displaced persons
camps in western Europe, she came to the United States and resumed her
studies. She received her B.A. degree in 1948 from Albertus Magnus College
in New Haven, Connecticut, and her M.A. and Ph.D. degrees, in 1951 and
1955, respectively, from Radcliffe College. Professor Humesky came to the
University of Michigan in 1953 as an instructor in Slavic languages and
literatures. She was promoted to assistant professor in 1959, associate
professor in 1961, and professor in 1967.
Among Professor Humesky's published works are articles dealing with
poetry and poetics as well as language teaching. The book that resulted from
her dissertation, Majakovsky and his Neologisms (Rausen, N.Y., 1964), is
unique in that it lists all the instances of word coinage by the famous
Russian poet. This book is well-known and used by many Slavic scholars.
Professor Humesky is also co-author of a widely acclaimed two-volume
Russian grammar, Modern Russian (Harcourt, Brace & World, N.Y., 1964,
1965) and the author of Modern Ukrainian, now in its sixth printing
(Canadian Institute of Ukrainian Studies, Edmonton-Toronto, 1980). The
Russian grammar was the first to use the audio-lingual approach and the
first to illustrate Russian intonation. The Ukrainian textbook is the most
widely used introductory grammar of the language in the world, including
Ukraine itself, where it is used in Kiev at the International Ukrainian
Studies Summer School.
Professor Humesky has served as president of a number of scholarly
organizations, including the Permanent Ukrainian Conference at Harvard,
the Slavic section of the Michigan Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American
Association for Ukrainian Studies, and others. She has directed scores of
doctoral dissertations and many of her former students are teaching throughout the United States.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Assya K.
Humesky professor emerita of Slavic languages and literatures.
Joachim W. Janecke, professor of physics in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1998.
Professor Jainecke received his Dipl.Phys. (1952) and his Dr.rer.nat.
(1955) degrees from the University of Heidelberg. He first came to the
University of Michigan in 1960 as a research associate and lecturer. After
leaving for Florida State University in 1962, he returned to the University of
Michigan in 1965 as an associate professor. He was promoted to professor in
1969. Professor Janecke has also been a frequent visiting professor at
laboratories in Germany, the Netherlands, Israel, and particularly Japan,


357




May Meeting, 1998


where he received a fellowship from the Japanese Society for the Promotion
of Science and a COE professorship from Osaka University.
Professor Janecke has served the University of Michigan in many roles,
including terms on the Rackham graduate school executive board, the Senate
Assembly, and on other University-wide committees. He has served as chair
or member of 29 dissertation committees. Professor Janecke was elected a
fellow of the American Physical Society in 1972 and has served as associate
editor of Atomic Data and Nuclear Tables, a standard reference source.
In a distinguished research career, Professor Janecke has contributed to
physics theory with the development of nuclear mass models that are widely
used in nuclear astrophysics and nuclear physics to predict masses for unstable
and unknown nuclei.   He has also coauthored the field's authoritative
compendium of beta-decay functions.
In experimental research, he has conducted precision measurements of
Coulomb energies in nuclei and other nuclear reaction measurements related
to the isospin part of the nuclear force. He has also performed systematic
studies of a-particle transfer reactions and clustering in nuclei, such as 2C
and 160, to very long-lived a-decaying nuclei, such as 238U. He has been at
the forefront in high-resolution studies of charge-exchange reactions and
giant resonances, which are manifestations of the nuclear many-body system.
He has performed reaction studies with short-lived unstable nuclear beams,
particularly with high-energy tritons.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Joachim W.
Janecke professor emeritus of physics.
Lawrence W. Jones, professor of physics in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1998.
Professor Jones received his B.S. (1948) and M.S. (1949) degrees from
Northwestern University and his Ph.D. (1952) degree from the University of
California at Berkeley. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an
instructor in 1952 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1956, associate
professor in 1960, and professor in 1963. He served as chair of the department from 1982-87.
During his first decade at Michigan, he collaborated intensively in the
Midwest Universities Research Association (MURA), an accelerator design
and development group that pioneered the concept of colliding beams and
other innovations now universal in modern accelerators. With colleague Kent
Terwilliger, he built a small electron accelerator that demonstrated a
number of the new concepts he had developed with MURA. This model
became the vehicle for his first participation in international conferences in
the 1950s and early 1960s. Since then, he has collaborated at most of the
major accelerator laboratories, most recently at CERN in Europe.
Professor Jones' detector contributions include development of the
luminescent (scintillation) chamber, various optical spark chamber concepts,
and the ionization calorimeter for hadron energy measurement. His accelerator
experiments include hadron cross sections, elastic and inelastic scattering,
particle production, dimuon production, prompt neutrino production, and
charm production by protons. During the 1980s, he served as leader of the


358




May Meeting, 1998


team that developed a state of Michigan site proposal for the national Superconducting Super Collider.
At a time when accelerator facilities could provide energies no higher
than 30 GeV, Professor Jones exploited cosmic rays for free quark searches
and for the study of strong interactions at energies above 100 GeV. His
expertise in both cosmic-ray and accelerator physics has made him a much
sought-after intermediary between the two groups. Recently he has been
part of a project to use lasers as compact electron accelerators for particle
physics-so-called "table-top accelerators." He has also made contributions
in medical radioisotope imaging and helped pioneer the concept of hydrogen
as an alternative chemical fuel.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Lawrence W.
Jones professor emeritus of physics.
Virginia C. Kane, associate professor of history of art, will retire from
active faculty status on May 31, 1998.
Professor Kane received her B.A. degree from Mount Holyoke College in
1956 and her M.A. degree from the Institute of Fine Arts, New York University,
in 1961. She earned her Ph.D. degree from Harvard University in 1969, with
a dissertation entitled "Chinese Bronze Vessels and their Inscriptions." She
came to the University of Michigan in 1969 as an instructor and was
promoted to assistant professor in 1970 and associate professor in 1975.
Throughout her career at the University, Professor Kane has been a
devoted teacher of Asian art and Buddhist studies. Although her specialized
research has focused on Chinese bronzes, her range in the classroom has
been extraordinary-moving across temporal and cultural expanses in China,
Japan, and Southeast Asia, tracing the story and meanings of international
Buddhism through the artistic record. A deeply learned scholar and a
demanding instructor, Professor Kane's seminars are widely acknowledged
by multiple generations of graduate students in the Department of History of
Art as a superb training ground in research methodology and pedagogy as
well as in the substantive areas under discussion around the table.
Professor Kane contributed significantly to the creation at Michigan of
an Asian art program of international acclaim. Her efforts to build the
department's visual resources in Asian art and to maintain and enhance the
quality of its publication, Ars Orientalis, leave an inspired legacy of her
commitment to excellence.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Virginia C.
Kane associate professor emerita of history of art.
C. Philip Kearney, professor of education, School of Education, will
retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1998, after 18 years of service to
the University of Michigan.
Professor Kearney received his B.A. and M.A. degrees from the University
of Portland (Oregon) in 1954 and 1960, respectively; he was awarded his
Ph.D. degree in 1967 from the University of Chicago. From 1967-68, he
served as assistant superintendent of the Orange Local School District in
Cleveland. From 1968-77, Professor Kearney served as associate superintendent
in various capacities for the Michigan Department of Education. From 1977-80,


359



