
OCTOBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY Or M/IICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, OCTOBER 12, I917.
The Board met in the Regents' Room at io A. M. Pres —
ent, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
Sawyer, Regent Bulkley, Regent Hanchett, Regent Gore,
and Regent Hubbard. Absent, Regent Clements, who later
took his seat, and Superintendent Keeler.
The matter -of housing and boarding conditions of the
male students in Ann Arbor (see pages 744' and 835) was
informally dropped from the program.
Regent Clements took his seat.
The salary of Professor E. C. Goddard as Chairman of
the Administrative Committee of the Law School during
the absence of Dean Bates (see pages 804 and 842) was
fixed at $500 for the University year I917-I918.
Two communications from Mrs. Margaret E. Hunt (see
page 835) were referred to Regent Gore for a report.
With respect to the request of the Michigan Union that
the Union Director of Student Activities should have Senate rank as well as active membership in the Committee on
Student Affairs, in accordance with a resolution of the Senate Council the Board voted to defer action during the present academic year (see page 829).
Regent Bulkley reported that the demurrage charge of
the Michigan Central Railroad for coal cars not unloaded
promptly had been paid, but that in view of an opinion from
the Interstate Commerce Commission that the Railroad was
not compelled under the Interstate Commerce law or regulations to make such charges against the University, a claim
had been filed with the Railroad for the refund of the payment (see page 829).
* References in the record of this meeting to pages of a higher number are
to the preceding volume.




2


OCTOBER MJEETING, [9i7


The Secretary reported that the money in the Military
Intelligence Bureau account, the disposition of which had
been referred at the July meeting (see page 836) to a Committee consisting of the President, Regent Beal, and the
Secretary, still stood to the credit of this fund.  It was informally understood that the matter might be erased from
the program.
Regent Clements reported that as the Betsy Barbour
H-louse site had been so determined as not to interfere with
\West Hall, tliere was no 'need for the present to raze West
H-all or to provide quarters elsewhere for the classes at
present reciting in that building (see page 840).
The President and Secretary reported a visit to Ann
Arbor on October 4 and 5 of Messrs. Lord, Tompkins,
TYhomipson, and O'Brien of the Michigan State Budget Commission of Inquiry.
The Secretary presented the following report with respect to fire insurance:To the Honorable Board of Regents:With respect to the matter of fire insurance, referred
to the undersigned Committee at the July meeting (see
pages 843 and 844), your Committee desires to report that
on August 22 the Chairman of the Buildings and Grounds
Committee addressed to each of the various members of
the Board a letter upon this subject, and in accordance with
the replies to such letter insurance has been effected along
a slightly different line from that indicated by the Regents
in their action at the July meeting, as above mentioned.
That is, insurance has been effected, at an annual premium
within the sum of $Io,coo allowed for that purpose, in
accordance with Plan Three, communicated in the above
mentioned letter of August 22, as follows:"Third —With the inability of the University to
afford the second plan of insurance at this time, the
next best plan, which to a fair degree protects all University property, is to use the so called 8o% basis of
insurance upon all of the poorer class and poorer risks
of University buildings; to insure the contents of such
buildings at nearly their full value; to place a small
amount of insurance upon the better class of buildings,
covering possible losses, and to insure at 8o% valuation or more, all of the residence properties owned by




OCTOBER MEETING, 1ip17


3


the University, the rate on which, in all probability,
will not be affected in any way by any revision of the
insurance laws. The amount of this residence property
insurance will not exceed $Ioo,ooo and the contract
upon this should be for three or five years. The total
insurance carried under this plan would amount to
$I,914,200.00."
The total amount of the insurance, as adjusted, including that upon the Psychopathic Hospital and contents
is $2,040,200, and the premium approximately $9,747.49, an
average rate of 47.77c. The Committee asks the approval
of the Board for its action.
Respectfully submitted,
WM. L. CLEMENTS
SHIRLEY W. SMITH
October II, 1917         H. B. HUTCHINS
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board voted to reconsider and rescind its action taken at the July meeting directing specific insurance and the establishment of an insurance
fund (see pages 843 and 844).     Following the vote upon
Regent Gore's motion, upon motion of Regent Sawyer, the
Board approved and confirmed the action of the Committee
as reported.
The Secretary presented the following report which, on
motion of Regent Leland, was approved and the action of
the Committee was confirmed:To the Honorable Board of Regents:At the July meeting (see page 844) the Board referred
to the Buildings and Grounds Committee and the Secretary, with power, the matter of providing the University
with Workmen's Compensation insurance for the ensuing
year. We beg to report that this insurance for the year,
approximately, from August 4, 1917, to August I, I918, has
been effected in the American Mutual Liability Insurance
Company, of Boston, Mass. This Company made a rate
upon the University's business somewhat lower than the
rate of the board companies, which latter rate was practically double the amount charged the preceding year. The
American Mutual, for over thirty years, has not failed to
pay a return premium dividend of 30% or thereabouts to
its policy holders, and over, twenty letters were received
in response to our inquiries from the very best manufac



4


OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


turing concerns in the country, each speaking in high terms
of the service received. The Company was spoken of in
high terms also by the State Insurance Department, and
it is believed that it will carry this line of insurance for
the University at less cost and with equal service from
every point of view. We therefore beg to ask the approval of the Board for our action.
Respectfully submitted,
WM. L. CLEMENTS
October II, I917             SHIRLEY W. SMI'TH
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the meeting of July 20 were approved, with corrections on pages
84I, 842, 843, 844, 845, 848, 849, 870, and 878.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board voted that the
honorary degree of Master of Arts should be conferred at
the Convocation exercises during the afternoon of October
12 upon four foreign military officers visiting Ann Arbor
while upon a mission to this country. The President characterized these candidates as follows:CAP'AIN JOTN GILMOUR, English student and soldier;
decorated by his King for distinguished service in South
Africa and in Flanders.
MAJOR EDOUARD RISr, French Army Medical Corps,
member of the Legion of Honor, distinguished for his scientific researches in tropical and other communicable
diseases; at one time in charge of the Quarantine Station
at Suez; joint author of one of the most authoritative texts
upon tropical diseases; distinguished alike as scientist and
soldier; recently called to this country to assist the National Research Council in scientific problems bearing upon
the war.
COLONEL THOMAS GOODWIN, Royal Army Medical
Corps, ideal English scholar, soldier, and educator, already
honored in his own country by receiving the Order for
Distinguished Service, and that of Commander of the Order of Saint Michael and Saint George; he came to this
country with Mr. Balfour and has been detained here at
the request of the Surgeon General as adviser in army
medical organization.
COLONES, CHARLES DERCLE, French    Army Medical
Corps, member of the Legion of Honor; distinguished as a
student of Arabic, and the author of a French-Arabic dictionary; he received ninety-seven wounds from a shell ex



OCTOBER MEETING, ipi7


5


plosion early in the war; he came to this country with
Marshal Joffre and has remained to advise the Surgeon
General in matters pertaining to medical effectiveness in
the war.
The President presented several letters and statements
filed with him making charges of disloyalty against Assistant Professor Carl E. Eggert of the Department of German.
The Board voted to summon Professor Eggert, Professor
William H-. H-lobbs, and Professor John W. Scholl for an
interview.
Regent Leland proposed to purchase as an investment
of University trust funds, $50,000 worth of the 4% Liberty
Bonds. Regent Sawyer moved to amend by increasing the
amount to $75,000. This amendment was accepted and the
resolution was then adopted in the following form: —
Resolved, That the Finance Committee be instructed
to buy $75,000 worth of 4% Liberty Bonds as an investment of University trust funds.
On motion of Regent Ianchett, the Board authorized
the staff of the Homceopathic Medical School and Hospital
to give special instruction to women who are preparing to
enter Red Cross or other military hospital work, this permission being conditioned upon the courses sustaining their
own expenses.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the Homoopathic Medical School, certificates of graduation from the Training
School of the Hommopathic- Hospital were voted to the
following:Mary Kathleen Hannon
Madeline Elsie Kraft
Mabel Fern Senke
Mrs. Rose Elizabeth Siefield
Claribel West
On motion of *Regent -Ianchett, in accordance with the
-reconminiendation of the Dean of the Summer Session, spe



6


OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


cial certificates in Embalming and Sanitary Science were
voted to the following:
Mervine A. Bowerman
Harold Braden
Ada G. Phillips
Lynn R. Schaffer
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the application of Dr.
H. M. Beebe, Professor of Surgery in the Homceopathic
Medical College, for a leave of absence without salary during his period of active duty in the Medical Corps of the
United States Army, was granted.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate School,
degrees were conferred as follows:
MAST'rR orI SCIeNCE (in Public Health)
Paul Henry Piper, B.S.
MASTErR OF SCIENCE
Harold Mathew Bowcock, B.S.
Bernard Fantus, M.D., College of Medicine, University of
Illinois
Justina Hamilton Hill, A.B., Smith College
Lynne Arthur Hoag, B.S.
Samuel Elias Katz, A.B.
Jessie Jones McNall, A.B.
Austin Edward MIloden, A.B.
Sam Tour, B.S. (Ch.E.), University of Colorado
MASTER o0 ARTS
Georgiana Bassett, A.B., Olivet College
Eliza Erskine Cranmer, A.B.
George Saunders Ellison, A.B., Lincoln University, A.B.
Paul Otto Flemming, A.B., Baldwin-Wallace College
Reid Stanger Fulton, A.B.
Grace Green, Ph.B., Olivet College
WTatze Groen, A.B.
Max Robertson Hodgdon, A.B.
Henry Dwight Hughes, A.B., Olivet College
Amy Elizabeth Keene, A.B.
Katherine Kelly, A.B.
Jacob D. Lower, B.S., West LaFayette College, M.D.,
Wooster University




OCTOBER MEETING, I9I7


7


Theodore Nelson, Ph.B., Alma College
Anna Bell Newton, B.L., Ohio Wesleyan University, A.B.,
A.M., Ohio Wesleyan University
Elgie Carl Rolfe, A.B.
Harlan Harold Rubey, A.B., Wabash College
Reuben Valentine Schmitt, A.B., Capital University, A.M.,
ibid.
Ross Huston Smith, A.B.
Isabel Pearl Snelgrove, A.B., Olivet College
Albert Fulton Stewart, A.B., Indiana University, A.M.,
Monmouth College
Ross Albert Wells, A.B., Franklin College
Rosabelle Veda Wykoff, A.B.
The Executive Board of the Graduate School reported
the followiTng resignations from Fellowship:-Charles F.
Sacia, from the Carl Braun Fellowship; Carl R. Brown,
Charles A.. Langworthy, Charles E. Sando, Paul A. Warren,
and Clarence M. Webster, from     University Fellowships;
Charles M. Carpenter and Delbert F. Brown from      State
College Fellowships; Sam  Tour and Charles A. Breitung
from the Michigan Gas Association Fellowships, which latter Fellowships have been withdrawn for the present year,
followTing these resignations. Appointments to Fellowships
were made as follows: —Harold S. E. Goodfellow, a University Fellowship of $300; Doris A. Adair to the Adrian
College State Fellowship, $300; Nellie E. Grohe to the Olivet College State Fellowship, $300; Lewis W. Heller to
the United States Radiator Corporation Fellowship, $500;
and Margaret S. Pengelly to the Whittier Botanical Fellowship, with a stipend of $200 for the first semester of the
present University year.
The following communication was received from Dean
Hinsdale of the — omceopathic Medical School, and on motion of Regent Hanchett, all of the various recommendations therein made were approved and enacted by the Regents:
PRESIDENT HUTCI-INS,
University of Michigan.
DI'AR PRESIDENNT:I wish to withdraw  recommendation, bearing date
October 2, 1917, entitled "Outline of plan for Temporary




8


OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


Reorganization of the Surgical Department of the Homoeopathic Medical School," and submit the following, with your
consent, as an emergency matter.
I. That the resignation of Professor C. B. Kinyon,
now in your hands, be accepted.
2. (a) That Doctor Theron G. Yeomans, of St.
Joseph, Michigan, be appointed as Professor of Gynecology,
with the understanding that when Doctor Kinyon's services in the Department of Obstetrics shall expire at the end
of the University year, the subject of Obstetrics also be
included in the department assigned to Doctor Yeomans.
(b) That the salary   of Professor H. M. Beebe
($2,000) be used to pay for the services of Doctor Yeomans.
In case Professor Beebe is released from Government service and pay and returns to us to occupy his former position, Doctor Yeomans is to serve, from that time, for the
remainder of the year, without salary, unless the Board of
Regents provide differently.
3. That Professor D. W. Myers be appointed Surgical
Director of the Hospital for this University year; the
arrangement of the schedule and classification of the
work in Surgery, comprising the services of Doctor Yeomans, in case he be appointed, of Assistant Professor
Naylor, and of the Auxiliary Staff hereafter recommended
to be under his direction.
4. Owing to the fact that Professor Beebe, the head
of the Surgical Department of the Homoeopathic Medical
School, is necessarily absent, although the staff in service
desire so far as possible to care for his work, it appears
best that there be invited competent surgeons to lend their
assistance. To this end, the faculty have organized what
may be designated an Auxiliary Staff for this University
year, to serve without fee or promise of remuneration.
Approval of this measure is requested. This plan is to
have the men, who will be selected with care and who consent to lend their services, come to the Hospital, give some
instruction by lectures upon the subjects with which they
are familiar, and work in the clinics. It is supposed that
each member of the Auxiliary Staff will make at least
two visits for this purpose. Doctor George Le Fevre, of
Muskegon, Doctor F. A. Kelly, of Detroit, and Doctor
John M. Lee of Rochester, N. Y., have already consented
to become members of this staff. We have also approached
Doctor Clarence Gillett of Kalamazoo, Doctor W. G. Pat



OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


9


terson of Detroit and Doctor W. L. Slack of Saginaw.
It is deemed necessary as "a war measure" to make this or
a similar arrangement. Before those chosen are assigned
work they shall be approved by the President.
Respectfully submitted,
W. B. HINSDALE
October io, I917
On motion of Regent Clements, the following resolution
\was adopted:
Resolved, That the Treasurer of the University
may assume and pay for as an investment of trust
funds any subscriptions of employees of the University for the last issue of 3I2% Liberty Bonds, if so desired, provided that any such employee desiring such substitution subscribe for an equal amount of the new 4%
Liberty Bonds.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, a Committee consisting
of Regent Sawyer, the President, and the Secretary, was
directed to proceed to acquire certain real estate in Ann
Arbor by purchase, if purchase is possible, but if purchase
should not be possible at a reasonable price, a proper offer
should be made for the property as a basis for condemnation proceedings.
Professors Eggert, Hobbs, and Scholl appeared before
the Board and were questioned by Regent Gore and by other
members.    Following the withdrawal of Messrs. Eggert,
Hobbs, and Scholl, on motion of Regent Leland, seconded
by Regent Hubbard, the Board took action as follows:Resolved, That because of the attitude of Dr. Carl E.
Eggert, Assistant Professor of German, with respect to
the War, as appears from an investigation conducted by
this Board, it is deemed that his usefulness to this University has ended, and his position is therefore declared
vacant.
At this point the Board took a recess to permit attendance upon the annual Convocation Exercises.




IO


OCTOBE8R MEETING, I917


SECOND SESSION
The Board reassembled at 4:30 P. M. Present, Regent
Leland, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley, and Regent Gore. Absent,
Regent Hanchett and Superintendent Keeler. In the absence
of the President, Regent Leland, on request of the other
members, took the chair.
Requests for concessions in fees were received from
the following persons, and on motion of Regent Clements,
were referred, with power, to a Committee 'consisting of
Regent Leland, Regent Sawyer, and the Secretary. The
petitioners were Messrs. Norman B. Muhme, Walter J.
Grierson, per Elmer P. Grierson, Arthur Bohn, Van C.
Kussrow, John W. Fonner, and Laylin K. James.
The President entered and took the chair.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board set aside the sum
of $5co for current expenses for the Army Stores course.
The Board further directed that out of the fee of $15 paid
by students in this course a proportionate sum should be
set aside for the Outdoor Physical Education fee and for the
Health Service fee, and that students mn this course should
have all the rights and privileges with respect to the Outdoor
Physical Education work and the Health Service, enjoyed
by other students in the University.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board adopted the following resolution:Resolved, That the Buildings and Grounds Committee
be requested to take up with Mr. Albert Kahn, as architect,
the matter of plans for the new hospital unit, with the
understanding that another architect, or architects, specializing in hospital construction may be called in for consultation if deemed desirable.
Regent Sawyer reported that he and Dr. Reuben Peterson, Director of the University Hospital, had had a conference with the Army medical authorities in Washington with
respect to the possibility of locating in Ann Arbor a reconstruction hospital, on the basis of the furnishing of a site
by the University and the building and the maintenance of




OCTOBER MEETING, 1917                    1 r
the hospital by the War Department.    On motion of Regent Clements, the Board referred all questions which might
arise in connection with this proposal to the Executive Committee, with power to take such action as might be deemed
necessary:
Regent Sawyer, as a member of the State Commission
for the prevention of the social evil in connection with the
army cantonment at Battle Creek, stated that the Commission would probably call upon the University Hospitals to
aid in the work by furnishing medical treatment to infected
persons who might be sent here by the State at State expense. On motion of Regent Bulkley, such questions as
might arise in the course of the development of this plan
were referred to the Executive Committee, with power.
Regent Bulkley presented the report of Professor Ruthven as Director of the Museum of Zoology for the year
I916-I9I7. On m-otion of Regent Bulkley, the report was
received and ordered filed, with a record in the proceedings
of the thanks of the Board to those who had contributed
to the Museum during the year.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, leave of absence was
granted to Grover C. Grismore, Assistant Professor of Law,
drafted for army service, this leave being upon the basis of
the resolution adopted at the meeting of June 22 (see page
788).
The Secretary filed the following report:To the Honorable Board of Regents:At the June meeting (see page 830) the Board by
resolution authorized proceedings for the condemnation of
Lot 90 in R. S. Smith's Third Addition in the City of
Ann Arbor, with the exception of one small triangular
piece already in the possession of the University. On
August 28, the Executive Committee took action in accordance with the following report:"Your Executive Committee at a meeting held August
28, I917, approved the tentative plan prepared by the Buildings and Grounds Department of the University of Michigan, the same being drawing No. I703-G-9, for a proposed
building to be used as a dormitory to be erected on ground
bounded by Geddes Avenue, Washtenaw Avenue, and Volland Street and Lot ninety-one (9I) of R. S. Smith's




12              OCTOBER MEETING, 1917
Third Addition and Lot seventy-eight (78) of R. S. Smith's
First Addition to the City of Ann Arbor."
The case was tried by Cavanaugh & Burke for the
Regents, September I3 and I4, with the result that the
jury awarded the lot to the Regents and fixed compensation to the owner, Mr. J. Fred Wuerth, at $2,000.
The expense of the case is as follows:For jurors, officers, and witness fees............. $I4I.05
$II.50 covered fees for witnesses for Wuerth.
Cavanaugh &    Burke, attorneys................... 202.50
Allowance by the Court to Messrs. Sample, Sawyer,
and Brown, attorneys for WVuerth, $75 each...... 225.00
$568.55
I have complete itemization of the above.
I have also received a bill of $60 from Cavanaugh &
Burke, itemized as follows:Cash to Leo J. Kennedy, Deputy Sheriff, for serving notice to quit on Julia Jones, 907 North University Avenue..................................$.50
Cash for telegram to Mr. Wisner in re Hall-DuBois
property..........................................53
In Court with Mr. Brown in matter of continuance of
case of Ann Arbor Water Co. vs. Regents U. of MI. 5.oo
One day in court and in office with attorneys, on motion for new trial i1i re Duffy..................... 35.o0
One half day with Mr. Duffy and in court on final disposition  of Regents  vs. Duffy, et al................ I7.50
Telegram to Mr. Cook at Hillsdale.................25
Cash to Perry Townsend, Register of Deeds, witness
fee  'in  re  Duffy  case...............................o
Sent registered letter to Miss Sanders at Detroit....12
$6o.oo
I beg to ask for the direction of the Regents with respect to the above items, except the witness fees, jurors'
fees, and officers' fees, incurred through or with the approval of Cavanaugh & Burke to a total of $I29.55 which
have already been paid.
Respectfully submitted,
SHIRLIY W. SMITH,
Secretary
October II, 1917




OCTOBER MEETING, i1917


53


()n motion of Regent Bulkley the Board approved the
payment of the total sum of $628.55 in accordance with the
report above.
Regent Gore and IRegent Bulkley were excused.
On miotion of Regent Clements, the Board gave formal
approval and confirmation to all the actions of the Executive
Comnmittee covered by the following reports:To thie Rcgcuts of the University of Michigan:GENT'LEMEN:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held July 25,
I917, gave permission to the Red Cross organization of Ann
Arbor to use temporarily the presidential residence for Red
Cross purposes, it being understood that any expense for
janitor service should be paid by the Red Cross and that the
permission extended can be revoked at any time by the
Regents. The request for the use of the residence is hereto attached.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JuNIus E. BEAAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
July 26, 1917
To the H-onlorable Board of Regents:At a meeting of your Committee held July 3I, the accompanying letter from Assistant Professor Johl  D. Rue
was presented and leave of absence was granted to him for
the purpose of entering the service of the War Department
as Captain in the Ordnance Officers' Reserve Corps, such
leave to take effect October I, 1917. The Committee asks
that this -action be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WAI,TER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
July 31, 1917
'',, the IHonoroable Boarld of Regcnts:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held August
3, 1917, upon the recommendation of Dean Ward of the
College of Dental Surgery, changed Dr. Rollin Edward
Drake from the Prosthetic Department in said College to




I 4


OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


the Crown and Bridge Department, and assigned Dr. Reginald A. M\acDonald of said College to the place formerly
occupied by Dr. Drake. Under this arrangement Dr. Drake's
title will be that of Assistant Professor of Clinical Dentistry
at a salary of $I,600 a year and Dr. MacDonald's title will
be that of Instructor in Clinical Dentistry at the salary of
$9oo a year. These changes were made necessary by the
resignation of Dr. Herbert Smith Bailey, Instructor in the
College of Dental Surgery.
four Committee at said session also appointed Mliss
Nita Faught as Secretary to the Dean and Secretary of the
College of Dental Surgery at a salary of $8oo a year, her
year to begin August I6, 1917, with the understanding that
her salary from and after January I, I918, be at the rate of
$9oo a year.
The reasons for these appointments by your Committee
are fully set forth in a letter from Dean Marcus L. Ward
of the College of Dental Surgery, addressed to your Committee and attached hereto.  As appears in Dr. Ward's
communication, it was necessary that action in the foregoing matters be taken before the next meeting of the Board
in order that the work of the year might be provided for
before the opening of the University in October.
It should be noted that these changes do not increase
the budget for the Dental College for next year as adopted
by the Regents.
Your Committee requests that its action in the above
matters be confirmed by the full Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BALr,
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
Aug. 3, 1917
To thle Honorable Board of Regents:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held August
3 restored to the budget for Internal Medicine and Diseases of Children, in the Medical School, an item of $500
for an assistantship in Pediatrics which in the judgment of
your Committee was omitted by mistake. The facts connected with the case are fully explained in a letter from
Dr. Cowie hereto attached. In order that Dr. George Treadgold, the incumbent of the assistantship, might receive his
compensation during the summer it was necessary that ac



OCTOBER MEETING, 1917
tion be taken before the meeting of the full Board. Your
Committee asks that its action be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEIAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
August 3, I917                   H. B. HUTCHINS
'To thie 1Iol0orabile Board of Regents:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held August
7, I917, took the following action:I. As the records of the Secretary fail to show that
the Regents at their last meeting fixed the fee for students
taking the Quartermasters' and Ordnance Course conducted by Professor Joseph Bursley, your Committee fixed the
fee at $I5.00 for the course. Hereafter the course will extend over a period of six weeks, and it is the purpose of
the College of Engineering   to continue these courses
throughout the year if the Federal authorities desire it done.
It is thought that the $I5.00 fee will cover the expenses of
the course.
Action was necessary in order that inquiries of prospective students might be answered.
2. Your Committee acted favorably upon the communication hereto attached in regard to the Alumnae Co-operative
House at 1227 Washtenaw Ave., authorizing by its action
the Board of Governors named in said communication. It
was necessary that action be taken before the next meeting
of the Board in order that the Board of Governors might be
organized and elect a Social Director before the opening of
the university year.
3. Mr. Granville D. Jones was appointed Instructor in
Mathematics in the College of Engineering for one year at
the salary of $I,ooo to take the place of Assistant Professor
William  Garretson, who has resigned.  This action was
necessary in order that Mr. Jones might be inotified and prepare to take up the work at the beginning of the university
year. This action was in accordance with the recommendation of Dean Cooley of the College of Engineering hereto attached. Your Committee asks that its action in the
foregoing matters be confirmed.
Respectfully subnmitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMIITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAT.
WAILTR H. SAWYER
August 7, 1917                   I. B. H-UTCHINS


I5




OCTOBER MEETING, 19p7
Thle Honorable Board of Regents,
(Untiversity of Mlichigan,
Annz Arbor, Mich.
GENTLEMEN:At the general meeting- of alumnla held in Ann Arbor
June 27, it was voted to ask the Board of Regents to appoint
the Social Director for the Alumnae Co-operative House at
I227 Washtenaw Ave., upon recommendation of the Board
of Governors.
The alumne desire this action in order that their Social
Director may be under the control of the University as is
the case in Newberry Residence.
The alumnla further ask that the Board of Governois
be increased to seven with a quorum of three, in order that
there may be representatives from Chicago and Grand Rapids; the term of the Board of Governors to be three years
and that the term of office for the Board of Governors as
appointed be fixed as follows:
Mrs. Myra Post Cady, Mrs. Erie L. Gates, three
years.
Miss Mary F. Farnsworth, Mrs. John 0. Reed, Dr.
Mary Hinsdale, two years.
Mrs. Leslie Cummings French, and the Chicago
representative, one year
their terms of office to expire Aug. I each year; their successors to be recommended to the Board of Regents for
appointnient by a general meeting of alumnae to be held annually at Commencement.
The candidate for Social Director will be named to
your body by the Board of Governors. The candidate for
the one vacancy on the Board of Governors will be named
to your body by the Central Correspondence Committee after
conference with the Chicago and the Grand Rapids aluml~e.
We hope that these actions will meet with the approval of your body.
Yours very truly,
CLAIRE T/I. SANDERS,
Chairman Central Correspondence Committee of the
Alumnae of the University of Michigan
Io7 Boston Boulevard,
Detroit, Mich., Aug. 3, 197




OCTOBER MEETING, I917                       17
To the Honorable Board of Regents:At the meeting of the Regents held July 20, following the President's presentation of the plan for an American-University Union in Europe, your Executive Committee was empowered to arrange for a local representative
of this University at said Union in Paris, the expense
of maintaining such representative to come from outside
sources if possible. After canvassing the situation carefully, your Committee, at a meeting held August Io, 1917,
appointed Professor Charles Bruce Vibbert of the Department of Philosophy to act as the representative of the
University at the Union during the coming year and
granted to Professor Vibbert a leave of absence with full
salary for that purpose. In order to provide for Professor
Vibbert's work, your Committee appointed Mr. William
Harry Jellema Instructor in the Department of Philosophy
for the next year at a salary of $o90. To provide in part
for this salary the Executive Board of the Graduate School,
at a meeting held August Io, I917, voted to return to the
General Fund $500 heretofore set aside by the Regents
as a fellowship, which fellowship had been assigned to
Mr. Jellema. It is expected by your Committee that the
remaining $400 necessary to pay the salary of said instructor together with such amounts as will be needed to
meet the incidental expenses of Professor Vibbert (the
expenses of a stenographer and office expenses) can be
raised by outside subscriptions. A committee appointed by
the Directors of the Alumni Association will undertake
to raise the necessary amounts. It has been thought best
not to solicit subscriptions until a report from Professor
Vibbert of the amounts needed has been received. Such
a report will probably be forthcoming about the middle of October. It is the opinion of your Committee that
the additional funds needed can be raised from outside
sources without particular difficulty.
Your Committee asks that its action as above set
forth be confirmed by the full Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMXITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BXAL
WALTER H. SAWY\ER
H. B. HUICHI-T'NS
August 10, I917




I 8


OCTOBER MEETING, 1917
'J'o tie Ho-lorable Board of Regents:At a meeting of your Executive Committee held
August II, I917, Dr. Warren E. Forsythe was appointed to
the headship of the University Health Service at a salary
of $3,500 a year, his term to begin October I, I917. The
appointment was made upon the recommendation of the
Health Service Committee of the Regents and upon the
understanding that Dr. Forsythe is to give his entire time
to the Service. Your Committee asks that its action be
approved by the full Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BErAL
WALTER II. SAWYER
August ii, I917                 H. B. I-IUTCHINS
''o the Honorable Board of Regents:Your Executive Conmmittee at a meeting held August
14, 1917, took the following action.
Dr. Orlow C. Snyder, Instructor in Anatomy, in the
Mledical School, was granted leave of absence without salary
for the next University year. Dr. Snyder's salary as provided for in the budget is $I,ooo. To the vacancy caused by
this action, Mr. Lynne A. Hoag was advanced by your Committee from the position of full-time assistant in said Miedical School to that of Instructor in Anatomy for the year
I917-1918 at the salary of $9oo0.
The resignation of Dr. John L. Worcester was accepted
and to provide for the vacancy caused by Dr. Worcester's
leaving, Dr. Beryl I. Burns was advanced from the position
of full-time assistant to that of Instructor in Anatomy for
the year I917-I918 at the salary of $900. The salary of Dr.
Worcester as provided for in the budget was $I,ooo.
Your Committee, upon the recommendation of Dr. Huber, head of the Department of Anatomy of the Medical
School, added $Ioo to the salary of Dr. Wayne J. Atwell and
$Ioo to the salary of Dr. Stacy R. Guild. This action does
not increase the budget of the Medical School as the $20o
hereby appropriated was saved in filling the vacancies calsed by the absence of Dr. Snyder and Dr. Worcester as hereinbefore set forth. Dr. Atwell and Dr. Guild are married
men and have been in the service of the Medical School for
several years on small salaries, and in the opinion of the
Committee should have the increase provided to meet the
increased expense of living. This was not brought to the




OCTOBER MEETING, I9I7


I9


attention of the Board at the time other increases of small
salaries were made.
The entire action of your Committee hereinbefore set
forth was based upon a communication from   Dr. Huber,
head of the Department of Anatomy, hereto attached. Your
Committee asks that its action as herein reported be confirmed by the Board.     Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAI,
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
'lo the Honorable Board of Regets. —
Your Executive Committee at a meeting held August
i6, 1917, appointed Doctor Harold deB. Barss Instructor in
Surgery for one year in the Department of Surgery of the
Medical School of the University at a salary of $I,700. This
action was necessary in view of the fact that two members
of the Surgery staff have been called into the Federal service. Their going released $2,1oo, and $I,700 of this amount
was appropriated by your Committee for the salary of Doctor Barss.
This action was based upon the recommendation of
Doctor C. G. Darling, Professor of Surgery, attached hereto.
Your Committee asks that its action be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEA1C
WALTER H. SAWYER
HI. B. HIUTCHINS
To tlhe HonIorable Board of RcgCents:At a meeting of the Executive Committee held August
20, 1917, Professor Alexander Ziwet of the College of
Engineering applied for leave of absence for Professor
Peter Field for the duration of the war, Professor Field
having received a commission as Captain of the United
States Coast Artillery.  Professor Ziwet's request is attached hereto.
Your Committee granted the request and asks that
its action be confirmed.  Respectfully submiitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS




20             OCT'OBER MEETING, 19r7
To the Honorable (Board of Regcnts:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held August
31, 1917, appointed Mr. Charles F. Griffitts Instructor in
Psychology for the next year at a salary of $900. This appointment was made necessary by reason of the fact that
Professor John F. Shepard of the Department of Psychology will necessarily be absent more or less during the
coming year in the service of the Federal Government.
Mr. Griffitts has been Assistant in the laboratory of the
Department of Psychology for the past year and expected
to remain in that capacity during the coming year, but was
offered an Instructorship in the University of Kansas-at
a salary of $I,200. As Assistant here he would have been
paid a salary of $450. He felt that he could not afford,
in view of those dependent upon him, to disregard the
Kansas offer but that he would be willing to remain here
at a salary of $9oo. In the budget for next year the Department of Psychology was given $goo for assistants.
This $9co your Committee has appropriated for the salary
of Mr. Griffitts as Instructor. Professor Shepard was of
the opinion that this action should be taken and represented to your Committee that, in his judgment, it would
be for the interest of the Department to use the $9oo in
this way rather than to secure inexperienced men as assistants.
Your Committee asks that this action be approved.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMM/ITTEE:
JuNIUS E. BEAL
WALTER H. SAWYPER
H. B. HUTrCHINS
7o the IHoncrab!e Bcard of Regents.Your Executive Committee at a meeting held September I, 1917, fixed the salary of Lyman L. Bryson, of the
department of Rhetoric, for the next year at $I,700, and
promoted him to the rank of Assistant Professor.   His
salary as provided for in the budget is $1,400. It was necessary to make this increase in order to retain the services of Mr. Bryson, who was offered the headship of the
Department of Journalism in Iowa State University at a
much larger salary. He has had large practical experience
in Journalism and as an Instructor in that subject has met
with marked success. Your Committee concluded that if




OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


21


he should go, it would be impossible to fill his place before the opening of the year.
Your Committee begs leave to state that this action
involves no addition to the budget as $300 will be saved
by the Department of Rhetoric by securing substitutes for
persons leaving, at smaller salaries.
Your Committee felt that the exigencies of the situation required action before the meeting of the Board. They
ask that their action be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMIITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BlAL
WALTIER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTcHINS
To tch Honorable Board of Regents:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held September 6, I917, appointed Mr. Max M. Gardner as Instructor
in Botany for one year at a salary of $I,500. This appointment was made to fill the vacancy for the year left by
Professor Kauffman's leave of absence. Professor Kauffman has leave of absence without salary and as his salary
as provided for in the budget is $I,900, $400 is saved by
this appointment. This action was based upon the recommendation of Dean Effinger and Professor Newcombe attached hereto.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEIA,
WALTER H. SAiWYER
H. B. HUTCHIrNS
To the fonorable Board of Rcgents:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held September 6, 1917, granted leave of absence for the next university year to Doctor R. A. McGarry, Instructor in
Dermatology, in order that he may take up military service in the Federal Army. The request of Doctor McGarry
is attached hereto.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COIMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BElAL
WAL'TER H. SA'xwER
I-. B. IIUTCHINS




22


OCTOBER MEETING,             Qj7
To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held September 6, 1917, appointed as Instructors of Mathematics in
the College of Literature, Science and the Arts of the
University for the next university year, Mr. George Hoffman Cresse and Mr. Herman Betz each at a salary of
$I,200 a year.  These' appointments vice Messrs. A. L.
Miller and J. W. Baldwin, respectively, resigned, were made
upon the recommendations of the Professor of Mathematics and Dean Effiinger hereto attached.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE CO1MMIITTEE:
JuNIUS E. PrA T
TIrALTER H. SA\VYER
H. B. ImUTC'leIN's
'o the IHortorable Board of Regents.Your Executive Committee at a meeting held September 6, I917, granted to Professor Francis TA. Kelsey leave
of absence from November I5 to December 20. The reason for said action is explained in the letter of Professor
Kelsey to Dean Effinger hereto attached. It is understood
that Professor Kelsey's work will be provided for during
his absence.
Respectfully sublmitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTE E:
JUNIUS E. BE:AL
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. I-IUTCIINT
To the -Hon;orable Board of Regcts. —
Your Executive Committee at a meeting held September 8, I9I7, granted leave of absence to Doctor C. \V.
Cook, Assistant Professor of Economic Geology, for the
first semester of the academic year of I917-IS, said leave
to be without salary.  This action was taken upon the
recommendation of Professor W. H. Hobbs, head of the
Department of Geology, which recommendation is hereto
attached. The reasons for the request are explained in
Professor Hobbs's letter. The work in the Department
will be so arranged that little or no embarrassment will
come from the absence of Doctor Cook.
Your Committee regarded the request as an emergency
one, inasmuch as Doctor Cook had to know at once if




OCTOBER MEETING, 1917                      23
he could be excused in order that he might perfect his
plans.
*Your Committee asks that its action be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
Jo tIhe Honorable Board of Regents:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held Septceiner 10, I917, granted to Mr. Louis Eich, of the Department of Oratory, leave of absence without salary for
the next university year. Mr. Eich goes to the military
training camp at Fort Sheridan.  In place of Mr. Eich
your Committee at said meeting appointed Mr. Samuel
J. Skinner Instructor in Oratory for one year at a salary
of $I,ooo. As the salary in the budget for Mr. Eich for
next year is $1,200, the appointment of Mr. Skinner results
in a saving of $200. Attached hereto are communications
from Professor Hollister and Dean Effinger recommending the foregoing action.
Your Committee asks that this action "be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMInITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BirAL
WALTEIR H. SAWYERP
H. B. I-IHTC-IINS
'To thec -Hoorable Board of Rcge-ts.Your Executive Committee at a meeting held in Ann
Arbor, September I8, with Regent Hubbard in consultation, took the following actions, which are hereby submitted
to the Board with the request that our actions be confirmed.
After conference with Professor Canfield and Dean
Effinger, it appeared clear that the Department of Romance
Languages could not provide for the students in French
who were expected to be present, without additional help. The
sum of $1,250 was added to the budget of this Department, to increase each of two three-quarter time Assistantships to full Instructorships, and to provide for an additional Instructor, and to provide substitutes for Messrs.
Talarnon, Austin, and Barnett, on leave, the salaries of
these Instructors not to exceed $I,2co each.  This appropriation of $1,250, or any part of it was conditioned




24


OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


upon the inability to transfer from the German Department to the French Department sufficient time of members of the German Faculty to meet the requirements in
French. This adjustment was left to a Committee consisting of the President, Dean Effinger, Professor Canfield,
and Professor Winkler. A supplementary report will embody the action finally agreed upon by this Committee.
Peter Cabral, Jr., was appointed Instructor in Spanish at the salary of $I,OOO, vice Albert B. Johnson, who does
not return this year.
Eugene Etienne Rovillain was appointed Instructor in
French at the salary of $I,ooo for the year, vice Instructor
Harry C. Barnett, on leave.
Upon conference with Dean Cooley, Dean Effinger, and
Lieutenant Mullen, of the Committee upon Military Affairs, there became apparent the absolute necessity of a
certain amount of daylight in the late afternoon for military work, and your Committee voted that I/2 hours at
the close of each day, Monday to Friday inclusive, should
be reserved for the work of this Department. Further,
in order that other work of the University should not be
interfered with and in view of the fact that the City
of Ann Arbor returns to Central Standard time on the
first day of October, your Committee voted that after the
first week of the first semester all sc' eduled classes and
exercises for such semester should be advanced one-half
hour; office hours should likewise be advanced. The forenoon class period will therefore cover the hours from 7:30
to 11:30, the afternoon period from 12:30 to 5:30, instead
of from 8 to 12 and I to 6 as now. The time from 4
to 5:30 will be devoted to military work. The reason for
not making the change during the first week is found in
the desirability of making announcements in all classes
which will meet the first week in accordance with the
printed schedule.
Mr. George D. Wilner was appointed Instructor in
Oratory, vice Nathan E. Pinney, who did not accept the
appointment, with salary of $I,Ooo for the year.
Dr. Eloise Mary Walker was appointed      Woman
Physician in the Health Service from October I, I917, with
salary of $3,oco per year, succeeding Dr. Elsie Seelye Pratt,
resigned.
Dean Cooley presented the following list of members
of the Faculty of the Colleges of Engineering and Archi



OCTOBER MEETING, 9177


25


tecture, who under present necessities could not carry on
their University work in I917-1918. Your Committee voted
that leave of absence for said year should be granted to
those whose applications for leave have not already been
acted upon by the whole Board or by your Committee:Mathematics
Associate Professor Peter Field, Capt. U. S. A.
Engineering Mechanics
Assistant Professor F. N. Menefee, Capt. U. S. A.
Assistant Professor John Airey, Inspector Munitions
Civil Engineering
Assistant Professor A. R. Bailey-leave extended
Instructor O. M. McNeil, Lieut. U. S. N.
Mechanical Engineering
Associate Professor W. T. Fishleigh, Major, U. S. A.
Assistant Professor C. H. Fessenden, Capt. U. S. A.
Assistant Professor F. W. Pawlowski
Instructor F. A. Mickle, Capt. U. S. A.
Electrical Engineering
Associate Professor A. H. Lovell, Major, U. S. A.
Assistant Professor H. S. Sheppard, Capt. U. S. A.
Instructor Ward Davidson, Lieut. U. S. A.
Chemical Engineering
Professor A. H. White, Capt. U. S. A.
Professor E. E. Ware
Assistant Professor A. E. White, Capt. U. S. A.
Assistant Professor J. D. Rue, Capt. U. S. A.
Instructor C. Upthegrove, Capt. U. S. A..
In view of the necessity for their retention for the
coming year, and of their high grade work, and of saving in other salaries, your Committee increased the salary
of Assistant Professor W. L. Badger, of the Department
of Chemical Engineering, from $I,7co to $2,000, and promoted Instructor J. S. Laird, of the same Department, to
an Assistant Professorship of Chemical Engineering, at
the salary of $I,800, an increase in Dr. Laird's salary of
$300.
To meet the necessities of vacancies, the following
appointments were made for the year I917-I918:Mechanical Engineering
Ransom S. Hawley, Associate Professor at......$2,200
-lugh E. Keeler, Instructor at............... 1,500
Two others are yet to be found




26


OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


Electrical Engineering
Jos. H. Cannon, Associate Professor at........ 2,100
Harry Raymond Tear, Instructor at............,200
Two others are yet to be found
Chemical Engineering
Dr. Clifford Dyer Holley, Professor at.......... 3,500
W. Platt Wood, Assistant Professor first semester  at  rate  of...........................,700
for the year.
John C. Brier, Assistant Professor at......... 1,700
Robert Archer, Instructor at.................. I,200
C.  F.  Smart,  Instructor  at..................... 1,200
Instructor Assistant to be chosen by Dr. Holley
P. WV. Shepard to assist W. L. Badger in Swenson
Laboratory.
Dr. Holley's assistant, and the appointment of AMr.
Shepard as Assistant to Professor Badger are both to be
without salary from the University.
The President was authorized to secure Professor
George E. Myers, of New York City, as Professor in the
Department of Education in charge of courses for te'-chers in Industrial Training. The salary to be paid to Professor Myers, should he accept the appointment, is provided
by joint action of the Federal and the State governments in
aid of industrial education.
All of the above is respectfully submitted.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL
W   /ALTER H. SAWYER
Septen her 20, I917              H. B. HUTCHINS
To the Honorable Board of Rcgcnts —
Yotr Executive Committee at a meeting held September 13, I917, accepted with: regret the resignation of
Mr. Harry V. Wann as Instructor in Romance Languages
to take effect at once. Mr. Wann has been elected to
the chair of Romance Languages in the Indiana State
Normal School.
His letter of resignation is attached hereto.
Respectfully submitted;
EXECUTIVE C0OMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS




OCTOBER iAEETING, IyJ7


27


'o l/c Hiolunrable Bcard olf Regents:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held September 25, I917, granted leave of absence without pay for one.
year to Instructor Winthrop R. Wright of the Department of Physics in order that he might accept a temporary
position in connection with war work at the Bureau of
Standards.  Mr. Wright's request is attached hereto.
At the same meeting your Committee appointed Mr.
William T. Wright Instructor in Physics for one year at
a salary of $I,Ioo to fill the vacancy caused by the leave
of absence granted to Instructor Winthrop R. Wright.
This action makes no change in the budget as the salary
of the appointee is to be the same as that provided in the
budget for Instructor Winthrop R. Wright. The letter of
Professor H. M. Randall, head of the Department of
Physics, calling for the foregoing action, said letter being
approved by Dean Effinger, is attached hereto.
Your Committee asks that the action be confirmed by
the Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMM\ITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BE AI
WALT:ER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
To the HoIlorlable Board of Regents:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held September 26, I917, appointed Mr. Albert J. Walcott as Instructor
in Mineralogy and Petrography for the current academic
year at a salary of $I,200. This appointment was made to
fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mr. Albert B.
Peck. It was necessary that the appointment be made before the opening of the University. The action of your
Committee was based upon the recommendation of Professor Kraus, head of the Department of Mineralogy, approved by the Dean of the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts. The. Committee asks that its action be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COIMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL
H. B. HUTCHINS
WALTER -I. SAWYER




28


OC7'O IER /MEETING., 9J7
To tie H or lz abl  BoarI od of Regcets. —
Your Executive Committee at a meeting held September 27, 1917, appointed Mr. William B. Parker, without
salary, as Instructor in Chemical Engineering, to act as
special assistant to Dr. C. D. Holley, temporarily in charge
of the Department of Chemical Engineering. This appointment was necessary in order to complete the personnel
of the Department for the year and is made upon the
recommendation of Dean Cooley of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture.  Your Committee asks that
its action be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BrAI;
WALTER H. SAWYER
September 27, 1917              H. B. HUTCHINS
To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held September II, 1917, granted leave of absence during the academic
year, 1917-I918,.to Professor Jesse S. Reeves, head of the
Department of Political Science.  Professor Reeves has
accepted a commission as Captain in the Aviation Section
of the Signal Service Corps. His duties are to be administrative in connection with one of the schools of
aviation.
This leave of absence was granted with the understanding that the University is to pay the difference between
Professor Reeves's salary as Captain and his university
salary, in accordance with the resolution of the Board
adopted at its special June meeting (see page 788). The
regular pay of a captain is $2,400. Through certain commutations, to which a captain is entitled, the pay is increased somewhat. The exact amount of the increase will
be ascertained and reported to the Secretary of the Board.
The amount to be paid by the University will be the difference between the captain's salary as increased by Commutations and the salary of Professor Reeves which is
$3,700.
The work has been so rearranged in the Department
of Political Science that it can be done without calling
in any outside help excepting as stated below. All courses
will be given with the exception of one advanced course
which can be omitted without special loss to the Depart



OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


29


ment. By this rearrangement the Department will save
the amount of Professor Reeves's salary.
In accordance with the recommendation of Professor
Reeves, Doctor Lent. Dayton Upson, Director of the Detroit Bureau of Municipal Research, was appointed nonresident lecturer in Municipal Administration in the Department of Political Science for the year 1917-I918 at a
salary of $600. The $600 used for this salary had already
been appropriated in the budget for an additional assistant,
but under the rearrangement of the work, it will not be
-needed for that purpose. The appointment of Doctor Upson therefore makes no extra charge upon the budget.
The action of your Committee hereinbefore set forth
was based upon a communication from Professor Reeves
which is attached hereto. The Dean of the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts was consulted in regard
to the plan but being out of town at the time of the
filing of the communication of Professor Reeves, his formal
consent was not endorsed thereon.
Your Committee asks that its action as above set forth
be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BCAIL
WALT;R H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board voted that
adjustment of any salary question involved in the case of
Dr. Eggert should be left to the Executive Committee, with
power.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Dr. George Edmund
Myers was appointed Professor of Industrial Education, as
a member of the Faculty of the Department of Education,
with salary at the rate of $3,500 per year to date from November I, I9I7. This appointment is made under the appropriation by the Federal and State government for the
furtherance of industrial education.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, George Carleton Mullen,
First Lieutenant, U. S. A., was appointed Commandant of
Cadets and Professor of Military Science and Tactics, vice'
Maior Charles W. Castle, transferred by the War Department to another field.




30


OCTOBER MEETING, 19p7


On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board authorized the
refunding to any student called into the country's service,
of all fees for each semester in which such student should
be unable, due to the government call, to complete his semester's work and to secure credit therefor. Where credit
is secured or allowed by the Faculty, refunds are to be upon
the regular basis.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board accepted with regret the resignation of Lyman L. Bryson as Assistant Professor of Rhetoric, in order to enable him to take a position
with the Aircraft Production Board working under the War
Department.
On motion of Regent Beal, leave of absence, without
salary, for the present University year, was granted to Dr.
Herbert D. Austin, Instructor in Romance Languages.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Everett L. Hackes and
George Getchev were appointed Instructors in French in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, at the salary of,i,ozo each for the University year I917-I9I8.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board approved the
employment of James E. Chenot and William Fish Mlarsteller as special Instructors for the present six-weeks' term
of the Military Stores course at compensation of $25 each
for the period.
The following resignations were presented, and on motion, were accepted with regret: Alton L. Miller, as Instructor in Mathematics; Howard H. Cummings, as Physician and Executive Head of the University Health Service;
Elizabeth Price, as nurse in University Health Service;
Richard M. Holman, as Instructor in Botany; Paul W.
Ivey, as Instructor in Economics; Maurice I. Smith, as Instructor in Pharmacology; and Sven Froeberg as Instructor
in Psychology.
The resignation of Dr. H. H. Cummings was accompanied by his report for the year I916-I917, which was accepted by the Board, for printing as usual. See Appendix
A, page 48.
Leave of absence, on the basis of the resolution of June
22 (see page 788) was granted to Dr. Frederick B. Wahr,




OCTOBER MEETING, I917


3r


Instructor in German, selected for service in the National
Army.
Reports, in addition to those above recorded, were received from   the Executive Committee, and on motion of
Regent Leland, the actions of the Committee were approved
and confirmed. T'he reports follow:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held October
3, 1917, appointed as Instructor in the Department of
Electrical Engineering of the College of Engineering for
the present college year, Mr. H. L. Ballard at a salary of
$I,200. This action was necessary in order that Mr. Ballard
might enter on his work and was taken upon the recommendation of Dean Cooley hereto attached.
At the same meeting the resignation of Assistant Professor Harry G. Raschbacher, Assistant Professor of Surveying, was accepted. His formal resignation is attached
hereto together with a communication from Professor
Clarence T. Johnston, Head Professor of Surveying.
The Committee asks that its actions be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BCAL
WALTER H. SAWVYER
October 3, I917                 H.B. BHUTCHCINS
To the Honorable Board of Regents:At a meeting of your Executive Committee held
October I, 1917, in order to fill vacancies that have recently
occurred in the Department of Rhetoric, the following appointments were made: —
I. Mr. Frederick William Peterson was appointed I'structor in Rhetoric for one year at a salary of $I,ooo in
place of Mr. C. B. Goshorn, who is now at the Officers'
Training Camp. Mr. Peterson was last year Instructor
in the German Department and is transferred with the
consent of Professor Winkler.
2. Mr. John Alroy Mosenfelder was appointed Instructor in Rhetoric for one year at a salary of $I,200
in place of Mr. L. L. Bryson, who has resigned to accept
a position in the Government service.




32


OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


These appointments are within the provisions of the
budget and are made upon the recommendation of Professor F. N. Scott, head of the Department of Rhetoric.
Your Committee at said meeting granted Professor Scott's
request in his communication attached hereto that of the
$50o of the budget appropriation remaining, he be allowed
to use $300 for special lecturers on Journalism to supplement the work of Mr. Mosenfelder.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL
VWAILTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
The President presented the following letter f rom Dr.
C. B. Kinyon:To the Regents of the Unliversity of Michigan.
GENTILEMEN:I hereby tender my resignation as Professor of
Obstetrics and Gynecology in the Homoeopathic Medical
School, said resignation to take effect at the end of the
present University year, it being understood that during this
year I am to be relieved of all work in Gynecology, and
to give my entire attention to Obstetrics.
Respectfully submitted,
CLAUDIUS B. KINYON
Ann Arbor, Mich.,
October 9, I917
On motion of Regent Leland, the resignation of Dr.
Kinyon was accepted as tendered, with regret, and with the
understanding that there should be no change in salary until the end of the present University year.
(n motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board referred to
Regent Leland with power the application of Jacob Kassa1nin for a loan of $ico from the 1894 Class Loan Fund.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board referred to
Regent Beal, the President, and the Secretary the proposal
of Mr. H. I-1. Herbst, of Ann Arbor, to turn over to the
University, under stated conditions, certain property owned
by him in Ann Arbor.
The request of Dean Cooley for an increase in salary
for Associate Professor Arthur J. Decker and for promo



OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


33


tion and increase in salary for Instructor James H. Cissel
was referred to the Regents' Committee on the Colleges of
Engineering and Architecture, with power.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Colleges of Literature, Science;
and the Arts, degrees and Teachers' Diplomas were voted
as follows:BACHILOR 01 ARTS


Emil Anneke
Hobart McKinley Birmingham
Percival Victor Blanshard (as
of the Class of I914)
Helen Elizabeth Boyer
Loren Roy Brink
Alvin Stephen Buzbee
Ralph Klise Carman
James Thomas Caswell..rtlhur Earl Cross
Gertrude Ethel Culp
Paul Donohoo Covey
Winfield Wells Dawlev
Eileen Margaret Donohue
Edgar Fielding Down
Gladys Estella Draper
Francis Thomas Dwyer
Ray Gerald Easton
Russell Leslie Finch
Allen Thayer Greenman
Louis Peter H-enkel
May Lula Hewitt
Ward Morris Hopkins
*Philip M. Iloff
Albert Henry Jenkilns
Lee Everett Joslyn, Jr.
Harry Gilbert King
John William Langs


Ermelindo Acisch Mercado
Harold Americus Mlills
Miinnie Belle M\loses
H-erbert Comstock Otis
Ray Cole Pellett
Clarence Wesley Pratt
Henry Field Pratt
Franklin Peleg Randall
Ernest Reed
Aaron Dudley Riker
tMathilda Marie Schroeder
Carl Henry Schulte
Ella May Smith
tJerome Leonard Stadeker
Clarence R. Stallings
Jessie Armstrong Stark
H-enry Aaron Tape
Clarene Naomi Todd
Edna Marie Toland
Charles Cecil Tuck
Laurence Worth Van Aken
Julia van Leevwen
Ruth Catherine Wall
Lee L. Waterbury
Francis Joyce Wheeler
Blanche Hill Williams
Pei Chien Yang


BACHEnLOR OF SCIENCE


Carl Egbert Badgley
Harold Draeggert Barnard
Richard Henry Bennett
Tulio Luzunaris Bruno
* With high distinction.
t WVith distinction.


Henry Adolph Johnson
rLaurice Clark M'iller
Aleander Davis Webb




34


OCTOBER MEETING, 191,7


JBACHELOR O SCIENCE (IN FORESTRY)
I,-lRoy )Dove Arnold          Stephen Cornwell 1l()pl~klls
1 larold Walker Graham
IBACHELOR OF SCIINCE (IN CHEMISTRY)
Wesley George France          Albert Carl Martens
TEACHERS' DIPLOMA


Ielen Elizabeth Boyer
James Thomas Caswell
Arthur Earl Cross
Gertrude Ethel Culp
Eileen Margaret Donohue
Edgar Fielding Down
Gladys Estella Draper
Allen Thayer Greenman
'May Lula Hewitt
Philip M. Iloff
Elna Harrison Nelson
Ray Cole Pellett
Clarence \W~esley Pratt


Edgar Harold Schmidt
Mathilda MAarie Schroeder
Ella M\ay Smith
Clarence R. Stallings
Henry Aaron Tape
Grace Thomasma
Clarene Naomi Todd
Edna Marie Toland
Charles Cecil Tuck
Julia van Leevwen
-Lee L. Waterbury
Francis Joyce Wheeler


On motion ofl Regent Beal, following the recommneldation of Dean Effinger and Dean Jordan, AMiss Katherilfe
Harringtoln was appointed to the Henry Strong Scholarship
for the University year 1917-1918, with stillend of $200.
On motion of Regent Hubbarld, in accordance with the
request of Professor Miggett, Superintendent of the Enuineering Shops, the Board appointed John R. Hastings as Instructor in Fountdry Practice, with salary of SI,T00 for the
University year i9i7-I918, vice J. E. Warren, resigned, and
Glen Smock as Instructor in MAachine Shop practice for the
University year 1917-I918, with salary of $I,IOD, vice J. D.
Boylan, resigned.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board approved the
expenditure of $I50, reported by the President, for advertising the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture jointly
with other technical schools. Suggestions of further expenditures for this purpose were referred to Regent Hubbard, with power.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board voted that
50oo of the $i,ooo left available by the resignation of Dr.
Sven Froeberg, Instructor in Psychology, should be used




OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


35


for hiring assistants in Psychology, while the remaining
$5co should revert to the general fund.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate School,
Miss Helen Roelofs was appointed to a vacant University
Fellowship, with stipend of $303 for the University year
1917-i918, and Lewis Wellington Heller was appointed to
the United States Radiator Corporation Fellowship. with
stipend of,5oo for the University year 1917-1918. Dean
Lloyd reported the resignation of HI. W. Sheldon as Acme
White'Lead and Color Works Fellow.
In accordance with the communication from Dean,loyd,
since no Graduate student was available for appointment
to the last mentioned Fellowship, Paul -I. Geiger, an undergraduate, was appointed, with the understanding' that the
work of the Fellowship would be carried on in the Physics
Department under the direction of Dr. William W. Sleator,
instead of as previously in the Department of Chemical Engineering. Mr. Geiger's stipend for the year will be $4loo.
The remaiinng $Ioo of the amount allowed bv tle Acme
White Lead and Color Works, will be reserved for miscellaneous expenses approved by Dr. Sleator.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board directed the
payment of such traveling expenses, on University business,
as mlight be incurred by Professor Alfred H. White, now
Captain in the U. S. Army and stationed at Washington,
and Assistant Professor W. P. Wood, dividing his time between the Michigan Agricultural College and the University.
A communication was received from Professor Henry
C. Adams, specifying numerous changes in the personnel of
the Department of Economics, resulting in the following
salary roll below the rank of Professor, for the year I917 -1918:
W. A. Paton, Assistant Professor....................$I8oo
WT.  S. Thompson, Instructor.........................  1500
W. P. Calhoun, Instructor...........................  I500
A. E. Wood, Instructor........................... 500
R. B. Cowin, Instructor............................  I
-I.  N.  Schmitt,  Instructor..........................  100




36              OCTOBER MEETING, 19I17
R.  V.  Leffler,  Instructor.............................  I000
1-. L. Thornlton, Instructor......................... I200
NV. S. Krebs, Ilstructor............................. 1200
R. D. Kilborn, Instructor............................ 1200
L.  B.  Vincent,  Instructor.............................  800
A. P. \Varriner, One-half Time Instructor...........  500
1.  A.  Stevenson,  Lecturer...........................  60o
Lotta C. Coombs, Library Assistant.................. 5oo
C. WV. WVood, Laboratory Assistant..................  400
Katherine H-arrington, Reader....................... 250
J.  P.  A dam s,  Reader................................  250
H4.  H. Chapman,  Reader.............................  250
C.  R.  Cummings,  Reader............................  250
Insurance  Accounting  Instructor.....................  250
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board voted approval of this salary, roll provided it involved no increase in
the budget.
Further in accordance with Professor Adams's letter,
leave of absence for war service was granted Dr. Albert
Bradley, Instructor in Economics, and the resignation of
William F. Marsteller, as Instructor in Economics, was accepted with regret.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Mlichael Pargment was
appointed Instructor in French, for the remainder of the
University year I917-I918 after October I5, with salary at
the rate of $1,200 per year, with an allowance of $50 towards his moving expenses.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board referred to
the Executive Committee, with power, the request of Professor F. N. Scott for an additional Instructor in the Department of Rhetoric.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board approved in
its entirety the plan outlined in the following communiication
from Dr. C. G. Darling, Professor of Surgery:PRESIDE1NT 1-I. B. H:UTCIh-NTS,
University of Michigan.
DI)EAR SIR:In the matter between the Board of Regents ahd Dr.
I. D. Loree the Department of Surgery caln aid as follows:One Demonstrator or Assistant at $900
One Assistant at $400




OCTOBER MEETING, I9J7


37


One Interne without salary
Fifteen beds
Instruments $I25
In regard to the first position Dr. R. H. Baker holds the
appointment of Demlonstrator in Genito-Urinary Surgery at
a salary of $900 a year. He has already been assigned to
Dr. Loree and will give his entire time to the service.
$400 remains from the division of Dr. R. W. Kraft's
salary; the other $500 was given to Dr. H. deB. Barss.
This $4oo is available when Dr. Loree selects the assistant.
The room   in the hospital without salary has already
been provided for an interne subject to Dr. Loree's selection.
$250 allowed in the budget for new instruments will be
divided so that Dr. Loree can have $I25 for new instruments.
The above changes can be made without any increase
in the budget.
Respectfully submitted,
C. G. DARLING
October II, I917
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board voted indefinite leave of absence to Mr. Edward C. Pardon, Assistant
Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds, drafted into the
National Army, the leave being upon the terms provided for
Instructors, by the resolution of June 22 (see page 788).
The following communication was received from Maior
Vaughan, Dean of the Medical School:7'o the LHon orable B(eard cf Regeuts:I hereby request the grant of a leave of absence from
my school duties from October I, I917, to the same day in
I918 under such financial arrangement as you may choose
to make. I expect to be in this country certainly until June,
gi98, when possibly I may go to France, but of this I am
by no means sure. I hope to keep in touch with the school
and will probably be able to visit Ann Arbor once a month
during the school year.
Yours respectfully,
V. C. VAUGHA-N
Sept. Io, 19I7




38


OCTOBER MEETING, I9I,7


On motion of Regent Sawyer, leave was granted for the
year I917-I918, with full salary, if satisfactory arrangements for carrying on the detail work of the office are made
by Major Vaughan.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board approved the
charging off of overdrafts at the close of the year I9ird1917, in accordance with the following communication received from the Secretary:To the Honorable Board of Regents:I beg to recommend that the following overdrafts at
the close of the year I916-I917 be charged off for the reasons stated in the various cases. Some of these, as it will
be observed, are formal only; in other cases, i. e., the hospitals and clinics, the expenses above the amount allowed
in the budget have been covered by excess of receipts over
the amount estimated in the budget.
I. Contingent Account.......................$  285.20
Due to increases in salaries as authorized
by Regents (see page 628)
2. Medical Commencement Expense...........       40. I8
Expenses exceeded appropriation on account of large attendance
3. Regents' Reception........................   43.94
Expenses exceeded appropriation on account of increased cost of labor
4. Printing Angell Memorial Addresses.......     74.20
Cost exceeded estimate by reason of larger
number of copies and increase in number of
pages above estimate
5. Alumni University Day....................    II.87
Expenses exceeded appropriation
6. Patriotic Services.........................  22.45
No   appropriation  (authorized,  Regents'
Proceedings, page 782)
7.  Janitors'  Salaries..........................  I,131.25
Due to extra duties assigned and more
largely to increase in wages as approved
by Buildings and Grounds Committee
8. Janitors' Supplies..........................  293.97
Expenses exceed appropriation on account
of increased cost of supplies, principally
paper towels




OCTOBER MEETING, z9I7


39


9. Transmission Extension....................   I66.92
Cost of installation exceeded estimate on
account of increased cost of material
o0. Switching Charges,-cars other than coal....   79.15
No appropriation
II. Martha Cook Building Meters..............     35.72
Authorized by Regent Clements
12. Martha Cook Building Tunnel........          I51.94
Cost exceeded estimate
I3.  Dental  College  Salaries....................  I30.88
Covered by special fees paid in by students
to provide this service as authorized by Regents
14.  Dental  College  Clinic.....................  969.39
Covered by increased receipts from clinic
15. Literary Administration Current............  250.52
Authorized by President
I6. Education.  Michigan  State Teachers' Association  Headquarters..................17
Expenses exceeded estimate
17. Latin.  Removal of Entrance Conditions, —
Salary.................................  600.00
Covered by fees paid by students, as authorized by Regents
i8.  Physics,- Salaries.........................  2.17
Mechanician reported earlier than expected.
Was paid for time here, according to salary
table
I9. Sub-Freshman Rhetoric Salary.............   230.00
Covered by fees paid by students, as authorized by Regents
20. Anatomical Material.......................   693.08
Necessitated by the amount of anatomical
material sent in under the law
21. Materia Medica Salaries....................23
Error in appropriation for salary of laboratory attendant
22. Otology Salaries.........................    47.49
Increase in salary paid stenographer (see
page 628)
23.  Physiology  Salaries.........................24
Error in appropriation for laboratory attendant




40


OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


24. Roentgenology Salaries.....................  45.16
Increase in salary paid stenographer (see
page 628)
25.  Pharmacy  Salaries.......................90
Correcting error in stenographer's salary,
March, 1916, voucher 24422
26, Homoeopathic Hospital Current...........   5,823.07
Caused by purchases of supplies for next
fiscal year, by increased nunmber of patients,
and increased cost of supplies. Overdraft
covered by increased receipts
27. University Hospital Salaries...............  970.26
Increased expenses, due to increase in number of patients
28.  University  Hospital Current................ 48,0.I9
Caused by purchases of supplies,for next fiscal year, increased number of patients, and
increased cost of supplies.  Overdraft covered by increased receipts
29. Health Service Hospital Fund............ 2,I31.60
Caused by increased demands on the Health
Service
30. University Extension Current..............    I2.84
Necessary expenses over appropriation
31. Printing and Binding Plant................     3.74
Cost of motors exceeded estimate
32. Laundry Site Purchase.....................    32.50
Cost of abstract of Meade property, $22.50
annd cost of reporting case in Circuit Court,
$IO
Total......................................$62,362.22
As opposed to the overdraft above mentioned for
the charging off of which your approval is asked, unused balances went back into the general fund to a total
of $70,473.81.
SHIRLTY W. SMITH
September 25, I917
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board authorized the
consolidation of the balances remaining in funds set aside
for the purchase of land for enlarging the Summer Camp
site (see pages 447 and 626), and added the sum of $81.95
to these balances to provide the amount necessary to com



OCTOBER MEETING, r19 7


4t


plete the purchase of one parcel which could not be secured
at the expected price.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, leave of absence in accordance with the resolution of June 22 (see page 788) was
granted for the University year I917-I918, to Dr. Nellis 3.
Foster, Professor of Internal Medicine, now Major in the
Medical Reserve Corps of the United States Army.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Louis H. Newburgh was
appointed Acting Head of the Department of Internal Medicine during the year's leave of absence of Professor Foster, with no change in rank, but with increase of salary,
for the year, to $2,003.
Dr. R. Bishop' Canfield, Professor of Otolaryngology,
now Major in the Medical Reserve Corps of the Army, applied for leave of absence for the University year I917 -1918, on the basis of having taught four Summer Sessions
at full time, without the withdrawal of his salary (for conditions see Regents' Proceedings, February, 19oz, page
314). On motion of Regent Sawyer, leave was granted to
Dr. Canfield accordingly.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Albert C. Furstenberg,
B.S., M.D., was made Acting Assistant Professor and Head
of the Department of Otolaryngology for the University
year 1917-1918, with salaiy of $1,700 for the year, and Dr.
George McClure was appointed Demonstrator of Otolaryngology, vice Dr. Evan G. Galbraith, entered Army service,
with compensation of $500 for the year.
On motion of Regent Leland, following the recommendation of President Hutchins, Dean Effinger, and Dean Jordan, Levi L. Barbour Scholarships, with stipend of $500 in
each case, were granted to Kameyo Sadakata and Gladys
Ding for the year 1917-1918.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Dental Surgery, the
degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery was conferred upon
Robert Jennings Wells, who completed his work in the College a year ago but could not then be recommended for
graduation because of not having reached the required age.
Cn motion of Regent Beal; following the recommenda



42


OCTOBTER M/IEETING, I917


tion of the Faculty of the Law School, degrees were conferred as follows:DEGREE OF J. D.
Robert Worthington Lyman
DEGREE OF LL.B.
William Charles Achi, Jr., A.B. Clarence Albert ILokker
Henry Lye Cowlin           Donald McM\orris Sarbaugh
Jay Harold DenHerder, A.B.  Oscar Carl Sattinger
Frank Marion Gunter        Harry Simeon Scheinman
Melvin J. Haire            James Geddes Staley, A.B.,
Louis Jesse Holther          A.M.
Lathrop Williams -HuTll    Roman Casimir Widmann
Arthur Hurd Lee
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Dr. Edward MI. Honan
was appointed Instructor in General and Physical Chemistry
for the University year 1917-I918, vice Dr. James E. Harris, resigned.  The compensation of Dr. Honan is to be
$I,ooo for the year.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Emory Walter Sink was
appointed Instructor in Anatomy in the Medical School,
with salary of $900 for the University year 1917-1918, vice
Lynne A. Hoag, resigned.
A communication was received from Professor Novy,
recommending that in view of the fact that William Levin,
Assistant in Hygiene in Charge of Water Analysis, had entered the U. S. Army Sanitary Corps, this position should be
combined with the Assistantship in the Pasteur Institute,
and that John Sharpe Chambers should be appointed to the
combined position at an annual salary of $I,ooo on the
twelve-months' basis, from October I. On motion of Regent Sawyer, this arrangement was approved for the present, and the appointment was made.
On motion of Regent Sawver, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Medical School, dinlomas from
the ITniversitv Hospital Training School for Nurses were
voted to the following:Louise A. Southard         Katherine Kennedy
Mary Cecilia Witte         Mera Kmieske
Inez E. Cortright          Lilian Vaselak
IErmla A. Rumberger        Bess M. Harrison




OCTOBER MIEETING, 19 17


43


Alpha Johnson               I elen M. Crane
Ruby M. Collins             Jessie L. Avery
Charlotte L. Noall          Anne I. Harris
On motion of Regent Sawyer, George Fahr, M.D., and
Fred J. Currier, M.D., were appointed Instructors in Internal Medicine, for the University year I917-I918, with
salary of $9o0 in each case.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Harold DeB. Barss was
appointed Instructor in Surgery in the Medical School at
the salary of $I,70o for the year, this salary being available
out of the $2,IOO already provided in the budget for the
salaries of Doctors Malejan and Kraft, absent on leave in
the Medical Corps of the Army.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Dr. Earl Palmer was appointed Instructor in Psychiatry, vice Dr. Arnold L. Jacoby,
without salary from the University.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, and in accordance with
the recommendation of the Medical Faculty, Rolla G.
Karshner, M.D., Interne in the Department of Dermatology, was voted a salary of $6oo for the present year's service, on the condition that he move out of the University
Hospital and provide for his room and board elsewhere at
his own expense. His place in the Hospital is. under this
arrangement, to be taken by Lester C. Todd, as Interne
without salary.
The Secretary reported the following formal appointments, and on motion of Regent Hubbard, these were approved and confirmed by the Board:Olive Lindsey, General Catalogue Clerk, vice 2Iarchie
Sturges, resigned, from July 7, I917, with salary at the rate
of $60 per month.
E. Fern Jensen, Clerk in the College of Dental Surgery, half time, from October I, I917, with salary at the
rate of $30 per month.
S. E. Field, Assistant in Physics, for the University
year I917-1918, with salary of $6oo for the year.
S. C. Dort, Assistant in Physics, for the University year
I917-I918, with salary of $6oo for the year.
A. W. Van Benschoten, Laboratory Assistant in the Department of Internal M\edicine, from October I, I917, with
salary of $6o0 per year, twelve-months' basis.




44


OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


Gilbert H. Harrisoh, Clerk in the Engineering Shops,
rice Lou Nissle, resigned, for army service, from  Septeinher 24, 1917, with salary at the rate of $750 per year, twelvemonths' basis.
Albert J. Schmutzler, Demonstrator of Dental Surgery,
for the University year I917-I918, with salary of $5oo for
the year.
Harold K. Burch, Demonstrator of Dental Surgery, for
the University year 1917-1918, with salary of $5co for the
year.
Chester J. Robertson, Demonstrator of Dental Surgery,
for the University year I917-I918, with salary of $500 for
the year.
Ilarion H. Young, Nurse in the College of Dental Surgery, for the University year I917 1918, with salary of $8oo
for the yea-r.
J. Harold Hathaway, Stack Clerk in the General Library, from October I, 1917, with salary at the rate of $7oo
per year, twelve-months' basis.
Cecil Ross, Clerk at the Reading Room Desk, vice J.
I-arold Hathaway, from October I, 1917, with salary at the
rate of 600o per year, twelve-months' basis.
Fern Allmand, Stenographer in the Department of Otolaryngology, vice M1argaret V. Abbey resigned, from  September 27, 1917, with salary at the rate of $600 per year,
twelve-months' basis.
Cecil A. Norton, Assistant in Applied Physics and
Chemistry, vice Albert G. Martens, for the University year
I917-1918, with salary at the rate of $300 per year.
Lilian Perkins, Stenographer in Pathology, vice Amy
L. Scutt, transferred, from September 15, 1917, with salary
at the rate of $600 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Ichiro Watanabe, Technical Assistant in Anatomy, from
September I, 1917, with salary at the rate of $50 per month.
Charles B. Pillsbury, Roentgenologist in the Homceopathic Medical School, with salary at the rate of $200 per
year, twelve-months' basis, from October I, I917.
Walter R. Drury, Teaching Assistant in the Department
of Civil Engineering, with salary of $60 per month for ten
months beginning September I, 1917.
Robert L. Novy, Assistant in Bacteriology, vice A. IH.
Eggerth on leave, from October I, 1917, with salary at the
rate of $600 per year.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


45


Jesse L. Bollman, Assistant in Bacteriology, vice William MA. German, for the University year I917-1918, with salary at the rate of $600 per year.
~William M. German, Assistant in Physiological Chemistry, vice P. H. Piper, for the University year 1917-1918,
with salary at the rate of $6oo per year.
Howard L. Barker, Assistant in Anatomy, for the University year 1917-I918, with salary of $700 for the year.
Ernest E. H-uber, Assistant in Anatomy, for the University year I917-I918, with salary of $700 for the year.
Elizabeth L. Thompson, Teaching Assistant and Research Assistant in Anatomy, for the University year I917 -1918, with salary of $8oo for the year.
On motion of Regent Clements, a communication from
Dean Cooley recommending changes in titles of Assistant
Professor F. W. Pawlowski and Instructor W. F. Gerhardt,
and increases in salary for Professors Pawlowski, Anton F.
Greiner, John E. Emswiler, and Clyde E. Wilson, was referred to the Engineering Committee, with power.
On motion of Regent Clements, in accordance with the
recommendation of Dean Cooley, the Board authorized a
formal letter of appreciation, to be sent through government
channels, of the services of Captain William   Martin, of the
Canadian military forces, at Camp Davis during the past
summer.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board approved the
two following sets of resolutions adopted by the Faculty of
the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture on September 2).
RESOLUTIONS si1 oe' COURSES IN MILITARY SCIENCE AND TACTICS
I. That students in the Colleges of Engineering and
Architecture shall be permitted to elect courses in Military Science and Tactics.
2. That those who elect and satisfactorily complete
the prescribed work in this subject in accordance with
General Orders 49 shall have the credit therefor count
towards graduation.
3. That for the first semester this course shall be
elected as Military Training I, two hours' credit, and so
included in the regular elections.
4. That this course may be elected in addition to
the number of hours regularly allowed under the rules.




46


OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


5. That freshmen who elect this course shall be
excused from gymnasium work otherwise required.
6. That the Regents be requested to approve these
resolutions.
RESOLUTIONS iln e' THE COURSE IN ARMY STORES
I. That the Faculty of the Colleges of Engineering
and Architecture recognizes and approves the special military course known as the Army Stores Course which was
given at the request of the War Department during six
weeks of the Summer Session.
2. That the repetition of this special course over
periods of six weeks for as many times during the year
as may be required by the War Department, is hereby approved.
3. That the students enrolled in this special course
be registered as special students.
4. That those who satisfactorily complete this special course shall be entitled to receive six hours' credit.
5. That the Regents be requested to approve these
resolutions.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Colleges of Engineering'
and Architecture, degrees were conferred as follows:BACHELOR Oi SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
Civil Engineering
Menos Hovsep Boghosian       Raymond Floyd Sanderhoff
Patrick Clifford Graney      Ralph Stickney Taggart, B.S.,
Joseph Barnard Jewell          Ohio Wesleyan
Walter Clair Russell
llIechanzical Engineering
Lyman Howard Funkey           Reuben Herman Lawson
Clarence D. Hartsuff          Harvey Martin Rice
Howard Edmund Hodgson         Seymour Broudy Simons
Fred Herman Holloway          Grant Barkley Sturgis
John Victor Kuivinen
Electrical Engineering
Guy Roswell Cowing            Walter Charles Hall
Chemical Engineering
Laurence Burton Hadley       Ralph Winthrop Jennings
Clarence Edwin Hart          Vincente Mario Morales




OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


47


BACHIEI,OR OF SCIENCE IN ARCHITECTURE
Architectural EHngileering
Earl Rufus Loomis
On motion of Regent Hubbard, following the recomnlendation of Dean Cooley, Franklin C. Carter was appointed undergraduate holder of the Detroit Edison Fellowship
in Chemical Engineering for the year 1917-I918, with stipend of $500, leaving $ioo for expense.
Dean Cooley further reported the cancellation for the
present year of the three following Fellowships
Detroit Steel Castings Company-$600
Detroit Edison Company Special Fellowship-$I,200
Michigan Gas Association-$I,ooo
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Pharmacy, degrees
were conferred as follows:BACHELOR OP SCIENCE (IN PHARMACY)
George Karl Finzel, Ph.G.  MIarie Helen Von Eorries, Ph.C.
PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST
Fred Lee Rehor          Carl lHaskell Thorington
GRADUATE IN PHARMACY
Hobart Fay Shaw
A request was received from Director Campbell of the
Chemical Laboratory for an allowance of $200oo for an addi —
tional assistant in qualitative analysis. On motion of Regent Hubbard, this request was laid on the table.
On motion of Regent Leland, Regent Clements wzas appointed to initial the University vouchers for the month of
October, and Regent Sawyer was appointed to initial the
vouchers for the months of November, December, and January next.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote.
On motion, the Board adjourned to 9:30 A. M., November I6, 19I7.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH, Secretary.




APPENDIX A TO REGENTS' PROCEEDINGS OCTOBER 12, 1917
UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICE REPORT FOR THE
YEAR BEGINNING IN OCTOBER, I9I6,
AND ENDING IN AUGUST, 1917
To the Pesident and Board of Regents.
GENTLEMEN:I hereby respectfully submit the statistical report of
the University Health Service for the college year I916 -I917.
Kindly allow me to suggest that before the Health
Service can do its best work, a careful physical examination of every freshman student must be made.
During the last four years, several hundred cases of
tuberculosis have been found among the students of the
University of Michigan. Most of these cases were found
after the student had spent one or more years in the University, coming in contact with thousands of uninfected
students. It is impossible to estimate the number infected
from these sources and it is fair to estimate that roommates and those associating intimately have been infected.
A physical examination at the time of entrance would allow
the health authorities to place the early cases of tuberculosis in a favorable environment and to protect the uninfected students from the open cases.
Each year hundreds of students have minor nose and
throat operations, also refractions to correct errors in vision. These physical handicaps should be corrected early in
the college work in as much as they offer serious handicaps to any student. A physical examination at the time
of entrance into the University would disclose these defects and they could be easily remedied.
The proposed plan of inspecting and classifying rooming houses and boarding houses meets with my hearty approval. I am certain that when this plan is put into opera



OCTOBER MEETING, 1917                          49
tion the health of the student body will be greatly improved.
I assure you that my work among students of the
University of Michigan has been extremely pleasant and
profitable to me. I am proud of the type of young people
who attend our University. There is much remaining to
be done and if ever I can be of service to the University,
please feel free to command me.
Respectfully submitted,
H. H. CUMMINGS
INDIVIDUAL ST'UDENTS TREATED AT THE HEALTH SERVICE OFFICES
I916-I917
MEN      WOMEN NTOTAL
Regular  Session.................... 4412     790
Summer Session.'.................. 257        I57
4669       947      5616
OFFICE CALLS
Regular Session................................... 24,695
Sum m er   Session..................................  1,271
T otal...........................................25,966
OUTSIDE CALLS
R egular   Session....................................  409
Sum m er  School.....................................  4
STUDENTS REFERRED AND TREATED IN UNIVERSITY HOSPITALS
Regular  Session.................................... 3042
Summer   Session....................................  241
STUDENTS REFERRED AND TREATED IN UNIVERSITY HOSPITALS
AT HEALTH SERVICE EXPENSE
Regular  Session....................................  88
Sum mer  Session....................................  2
CONDITIONS TREATED AT THE HEALTH SERVICE OFFICES,
REGULAR SESSION, 1917
A cne.....................  I09  A nem ia...................  II4
Amenorrha..............     40   Asthma...................    8
Asthenopia................  IOI  Appendicitis...............  71




50


OCTOBER MEETING, I917


Achlorhydria..............   I
Adenitis.................   9
Alopecia..................     5
Arthritis..................   22
Aortic insufficiency........   I
Aphonia..................   2
Acid burn.................     5
AbrasionKnee....................     8
Lip..........                I
Back....................     I
Toe..................... 
Foot....................    3
Ear................. 
Thigh...................   i
Albuminuria..............    4
Abscess Alveolar..........     9
Adhesions, following
Appendicitis.............    I
Ascaris luzmbricoides......    I
Bronchitis................ I80
Bromidrosis...............     9
Bunion...................    8
B ursitis...................  I
Blepharitis marginalis....     5
Bursa, knee.............    I
Clavus....................    37
Conjunctitvitis............. I15
Coryza....................   I13
Cystitis...................    6
Chalazion.................    6
CystSebaceous...............    I7
Dermoid................    6
Meibomian..............   2
Caries, teeth..............    4
Circumcision.............. 37
Chorea.....................   I
Cauliflower ear............     I
Callositas.................   3
Coccyodynia...............     I
Chicken pox..............      3
DermatitisSeborrhca..............     23
Venenata................   6


Calorica.................   I
Medicamentosa.........      2
Congelationis............
Dyshidrosis...............  25
Diphtheria...............    I2
Dysmenorrhcea............     74
DislocationC lavicle.................  I
Elbow..................
Deviation, nasal septum....  33
Dietetic  error............. 45
D iabetes...................  2
Diarrhcea.................    2
Epistaxis..................   23
Enteritis..................  37
Eczema...................     27
Exudative erythema.......      I
Ethmnoiditis...............    3
Erythema.................     I6
Exostosis.................     6
Edema, angio neurotic.....     6
Eustachitis................  I 
Epilepsy..................    2
Epididymitis..............     2
Epidemic respiratory infection..................... I8I
Erysipelas.................    I
Furunculosis.............. II7
Foreign bodyThumb............       2
Hand...................    I
Eye.....................     4
Foot.................... 
Finger..................    I
FractureRib.....................     5
Tibia...................    2
Finger..................     2
Nose....................     6
Hand..................       2
Arches..................     2
Ankle...................  I
Foot.................... 
Fibroma...................     I
F olliculitis................  8




OCTOBER MEETING, 19r7


5 I


Flat foot..................     20
Felon.....................      I
Fistula urinary............      I
German measles...........       58
Gastric neurosis...........
Gastritis...............     9
Goitre..................   9
Gastro-enteritis..........       2
Gonorrhcea...............  I9
Gall stones................ 
Grippe..................   I6
Globus hysteria............ 
Gastralgia................. 5
Gingivitis.................      3
Gall bladder disease......       I
Hemorrhoids............         30
Hyperhidrosis.............   I3
Hyperacidity..............    Ii
HerpesZoster..................       7
Labialis................
Simplex................    I2
Hygienic advice........... I I
Hordeolumn................   35
Hysteria..................       8
HerniaInguinal................      8
Scrotal..................      I
Hematon................     3
Hyperkerotosis..........      r
Hayfever..................
Hydrocele.................     I
Hyperchlorhydria.........    3
HIelmoptysis..............     T
Hemorrhagia.............     I
Hepatitis.................     2
Hammer toe..............  I
InfectionElbow.................. 
*Hair follicle............     2
Lip....................        3
Foot.................. 
Face....................     T
Leg.....................
Chin....................


Ankle..................    2
Hand...................     21
Eye.....................
Cyst.................  I
Nose................. 
Jaw......................  I
Heel....................     2
Foot.................... 8
Toe.................. 
Wound.................    I
Finger....................   9
Cheek..................    I
Arm....................    2
Knee...................    3
Ear.....................     I
M olar..................   5
Iritis..................   I
Inpacted cerumen........      47
Ingrown nail..............
Insomnia.................    4
Impetigo contagiosa.......    I7
Impacted molar...........      2
Indigestion...............  63
Infantile paralysis.........   3
Injury to knee............  '
Incipient tuberculosis...... 
Ingrown molar............      5
chthyosis..................  I
Intertrigo................     3
Jaundice, acute catarrhlal..I
Lumbago.................         33
Laryngitis................. 229
Lymphadenitis.............  12
Leucorrhcea..............      2
IIitral insufficiency........  5
Regurgitation.......... 
MIyringitis................   I
Mumps...................       2
Menorrhagia..............     28
Migraine.................  I
Myalgia................... I3
Mastitis...................
Metatarsalgia............. 
Mreasles...................  I
Myopia...................    3




52


OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


MN yositis..................  I
Neuralgia................   33
Neurosis..................    2
Naevus pigmentosa........      3
Nephritis..............    4
Neurasthenia............    34
Neuritis...............    6
Otitis  media..............  38
Externa.................   2
Oedema, feet..............  4
Orchitis traumatic.........    4
Paronychia...........          I
Psoriasis....'.........       2
Pharyngitis...............940
Paricarditis...............  2
Paritonsillar infectio.....   I
Physical examinations.....1620
Puncture, wound..........      I
Pneumonia................     I4
Psoriasis..................    I5
Pediculosis Pubis.........     7
Peronychia..............     4
Phimosis...................    2
Pleurisy....................26
Psychasthenia.............     3
Periphimosis.............      I
Peri  arrhritis.............  I
Pes equinorarus...........     I
Perforated ear drum.......     I
Palmer abscess..........       I
Polyuria..................    I
Pruritis...................   3
Pyorrhcea.................     2
Psychoneurosis............   I
Ptomaine poisoning.......   I
Pityriasis rosea...........   2
Quinsy....................     6
Rhinitis................... 673
Rheumatism...............  I
Ringwor................    I
Scarlet  fever.............. 
Sinusitis..................  34
SprainThumb.................
Finger..................     2


Wrist................... 6
K nee...................     5
Tendon.................     4
Ankle...........             I3
Shoulder.........      6
StrainAnkle................... 6
M uscle..................   2
Tendon................    I3
Thigh...................      3
Finger..................    4
Foot....................     4
Leg....................     5
Shoulder.............   I
Syphilis...................    3
Seborrhcea sicca...........     I
Synovitis.................      I
Stomatitis.................     5
Sacralgia...............    I
Scabies..............    4
Small pox..............         I
Spinal curvature.......         I
Tinea cruris..............     II
Circinata...............    7
Versicolar..............  2
TrauimaBruising.............   46
Cutting................ 76
Blistering...............    I
Tenosynovitis.............      5
Trachitis..................    6
Tonsillitis................ 433
Tuberculosis..............   20
Torticollis................    6
Typhoid fever.............     I
Tachycardia...............      3
Thrombo phlebitis........       I
Typhoid spine.............      I
Thrombosis...............       I
Urticaria..................     3
Urethritis.................     3
Teno  synovitis............
Toxic erythema...........       I
Verruca........2.......... 12
Varicocele..............




OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


53


Vertigo...................  3     Typhoid................  82
Vaccination-                      Varicella.................   6
Small pox..............I228    Vincents Angina..........    7
CONDITIONS TREATED AT THE UNIVERSITY HOSPITALS, AT HEALTH
SERVICE EXPLENSE, I917


REGULAR SESSION
Appendicitis..............
Abscess, tooth...........
Adenitis, cervicle.........
Anem  ia..................
AbscessAppendiceal............
Peri  tonsillar...........
Bronchitis................
Chemical burn............
Chicken  pox..............
Diphtheria...............
Diabetes..................
Epididymitis..............
Edema, larynx...........
Exostosis.................
Menorrhagia..............
M easles...................
Mumps.
Mumps...................
Nephritis.................
Otitis  media..............


38
I
I
2
4
I
I
3
IO
I
I
I
2
I
8
I
2
7


Orchidectomy.............
Orchitis..................
Pneumonia...............
Pleurisy..................
Pericarditis...............
Q uinsy...................
Rheumatism.............
Scarlet  fever.............
Syphilis, inherited.........
Streptococcus infection...
Small  pox................
Thrombosis...............
Tonsillitis................
Typhoid..................
Tuberculosis..............
Urinary fistula...........
Varicose veins............
SUMMER SCHOOL
Fracture of skull, x-ray....
Infection,  heel...........


I
I
8
4
I
II
I
15
I
I
I
I
3
5
I
I
I
I
~


CONDITIONS TREATED AT THE UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICE
SUMMER SCHOOL, I9I7


A rthritis.................
Alveolar abscess..........
Adenitis..................
Alopecia areata...........
Anemia...................
A cne.....................
Asthenopia...............
Bursitis..................
Bronchitis...............
Bite by insect............
-Blister, toe...............
Chalazion.................
Clavus....................
Cerumen impacted........


2   Cyst sebaceous............
I   Conjunctivitis.............
2   Callositas.................
I   Dontalgia.................
6   Dysmenorrhoea...........
3   Dyshidrosis...............
4   Dermatitis calorica........
I   Eczema, chronic..........
8   External hemorrhoids.....
I   Enteritis..................
Foreign body, eye.........
I   Furunculosis..............
3   Folliculitis................
4   Fistula  in  ano............


2
8
I
I
6
I
I
I
6
4
3
3
I




54


OCTOBER MEETING, 1917


Fetor  oris...............
Gonorrhoea...............
Gastritis..................
Hydrocele................
Hernia....................
Heart examination........
Hyperhidrosis.............
Hypertrophied turbinates..
Hyperacidity..............
Herpes simplex...........
H ayfever................
Hordeolum...............
Hygienic advice..........
Hemorrhoids, external....
InfectionT oe....................
Finger..................
Foot....................
A nkle................
H eel...................
Intertrigo................
Ichthyosis................
Ingrown nail.............
Lumbago.................
MIastitis..................
Mitral insufficiency........
N eurosis.................
N euritis...............
N aevus...................
No disease................
OtitisExterna................
M edia..................
Pharyngitis...............
Paronychia...............


r   Physical examination..... 25
2   Psoriasis.................  I
2   Pleural adhesions........      I
I   Pterygium................   I
I   Pleurisy..................   2
Io   Quinsy...................   I
I   Rhinitis...................  15
4   Respiratory infection, acute   I
I   Strain2     Tendon.................     I
2     Foot....................    I
I     Back...................   I
6   Sinusitis frontal..........   6
I   Syphilis..................   I
Stricture, urethral........   I
I   Stomatitis................   I
3   Septic tonsils..........     I
I   Sprain, toe...............    I
I   Sputum   examinations.....  8
I   StrainI     Muscle.................   I
I     Ligament...............   I
3     Shoulder...........   I
I   Tinea corporis............    2
I   Trachitis.................   3
2   Tinea4     Cruris..................   3
2     Versicolar..............    3
I   TraumaI     Bruising................   4
Cutting.................   8
I   Tuberculosis.............     2
I   Tonsillitis................  5
12   Urine examination........    25
I   Verruca..................   9


ENGINEERING AND BIOLOGICAL CAMPS, I917
JUNE 27 TO AUGUST 24
CONDITIONS TREATED
Engineers  Biological Station
Acne Rosacea...............    2
BlisterHand......................  Io            2
Foot......................   5             3




OCTOBER MEETING, 1977                               55
Bite by insect................    3                12
Bronchitis, acute.............      2
Bronchitis, chronic...........      1
Callositas.......................
Carbuncle....................     2
Clavus.......................       2...
Constipation.................  8             4
Conjunctivitis..............       5               5
DermatitisCalorica....................   15                2
Venenata.................  8             3
Dontalgia....................     I...
Dysmenorrhoea.................                  3
Folliculitis...................    2
Foreign bodyE ye........................     3
Hand......................     4               I
Furunculosis.................     I
Fissure,  lips.................    2...
Gastritis, acute..............  3             2
Gastric neurosis.............     3
Headache....................     3               2
Herpes labiales...............      4.
Hemorrhoids, external.......        I
Hordeolum...................    I 
Ingrown nail................        I...
Impacted 3rd molar.........   2...
Hyperhidrosis................  2            2
InfectionBack.......................     I
Scalp......................      2.
Toe........................       2
Impacted cerumen...........         I 
Lymphadenitis................    I
M igraine........................ 
Otitis acute externa.............                   2
Otitis acute media...........      2.
Pharyngitis acute............    2                2
Physical examination.......    4...
Ptomaine poisoning.............                30
ProphylaxisBlack fly...................    70               I5
Ivy  poison.................    I5               8
Rhinitis, acute...............      2.




56               OCTOBER MEETING, 1917
Severed tendon...............   I
SprainThumb....................    2
Foot.......................   I
Ankle......................   4
TraumaCutting....................    8               I
Bruising...................    4
Tonsillitis, acute.............   3
Tonsils,  septic................  I
Verruca, plantaris............    2               I
Undiagnosed.................   3




NOVEMBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, NOVEMBER I6, 1917. 
The Board met in the Regents' Room at IO A. M. Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
Sawyer, Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Hanchett, and Regent Gore. Absent, Regent Bulkley, and Superintendent Keeler, who later took his seat.
The minutes of the meeting of October 12, on motion
of Regent Hubbard, were approved with corrections on
pages 7, 13, i6, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 40, 44, 48, and 49.
The following resolutions were transmitted to the Regents in a communication from the University of Michigan
Union, by George F. Hurley, President of the Union:WVhereas: Emphasis upon social and civic organization
is essential among the men of the University, and now, as a
group, the men are highly disorganized, a condition which
the Michigan Union seeks to remedy among the men by
providing them with a social and civic center and opportunities for organization and service among their fellows,
which such a center affords, and
Whereas: The University of Michigan Union is developing through its activities a sense of citizenship by stimulating the spirit of service and democracy, and
Whereas: The Michigan Union is emphasizing the avocational ideal as a complement to the vocational activities of
the various colleges upon the Campus, and
Whereas: The University of Michigan Union spirit of
citizenship is becoming a well-established and vigorous part
of the University life, and
Whereas: On the completion of its new quarters, the
Michigan Union should become even to a greater degree an
integral part of the University, and
Whereas: In the words of the late President James B.
Angell, "The Michigan Union, through its activities, can give
a student a goodly part of his education," and




58


NO VEMBER MEETING, I9.r7


Whereas: Membership in the Michigan Union must be
concurrent with membership in the University to make possible the enjoyment of its opportunities by all male students
of the University,
Therefore be it Resolved: That the Board of Directors
of the Michigan Union request the Board of Regents of the
University to incorporate into the tuition fee of all male students of the University the sum of five dollars, the same to
be devoted to the operation of the Union, and the payment
of which shall constitute membership in the Michigan Union,
to commence with the school year of I918-I919, and
Be It Further Resolved: That the Board of Directors
of the Michigan Union believes that such universal membership in the Michigan Union will be beneficial to the University and to the Union for the following reasons:I. Under the present system of voluntary membership
in the Michigan Union, the yearly campaign for new members monopolizes all of the Union's endeavors during the
first third of the year, to the detriment of the more necessary
activities. At the beginning of the school year, the Michigan
Union must spend its energies in those activities which enable the Union to accomplish its objective.
2. Union activities will be more comprehensive, and
opportunities for service will be greater with a stabilized
budget.
3. The Union guarantees an opportunity to earn a
membership in service in the Union Building to all those
whose financial situation is such that the payment of a five
dollar increase in tuition would become a burden.
4. The increase in the tuition caused by including therein the membership fee to the Michigan Union, will not cause
an increase in the expenses incurred in student life, because
the opportunities for amusement and recreation, which the
Union, through its new home, will afford, without expense,
to its. members will be many, and will divert students from
activities for which they have to pay, thus offsetting the increase in the tuition.
5. Making membership in the Union concurrent with
membership in the University emphasizes the fact that the
Union and its activities are an integral part of University
life. This relation is absolutely necessary to the promotion
of the ideals' of the Union.
6. The incorporation of the Union membership fee into
the tuition will enlarge the possibilities of carefully directed




NOVEMBER MEETING, 19I7


59


social and civic activities. In the same manner as the University, by the inclusion of the athletic fee in the tuition, has
raised the tone of athletics and has made possible the successful development of intramural athletics, so will the incorporation of the Union fee in the tuition make the University sponsor not only the mental and physical education
of its students, but also their social and civic opportunities.
7. To make every man a Union member throughout
his college career is through association to make his relationship closer to the University after he becomes an alumnus. The Union emphasizes the close relationship which exists between student, alumnus, and faculty, and between
each and the University, and the obligations which they all
owe to the University. The result of such emphasis, concentrated upon all the student members during their student
days, cannot but build up a vigorous alumni spirit in them
when their college period is over.
8. The Michigan Union, with the co-operation of the
University, will not only serve the men of this University
in developing their social and avocational interests, but, with
this support, it will also extend the ideals of the Michigan
Union and the methods through which it carries them out,
into other university and college centers.
Io. The broadened scope of the Michigan Union will
enable the Union in a more substantial degree to co-operate
with the American University Union in Europe, the purpose
of which is to serve as a clearing house between American
and European ideals.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Regents declared
themselves in general sympathy with the proposal contained
in the resolutions, and referred the matter to a committee
of conference, to be appointed by the President, to take
up the whole question with representatives of the Union.and to formulate a plan complete in detail.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Secretary was directed to procure and to have displayed in proper location a "Service Flag" containing a star for each member of the University staff now in the war service of the
government.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Buildings and
Grounds Committee was authorized to approve plans and




60


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917


to take bids for the construction of the Betsy Barbour
House.
Regent Keeler took his seat.
The President called attention to a communication which
he had received from Major James Bordley, of the Surgeon
General's Office, inquiring what the University could do in
the way of helping physically handicapped soldiers to prepare for self-supporting lives after discharge. This general question, involving, possibly, the establishment of a
reconstruction hospital in Ann Arbor, had been referred
at the October meeting (see page Io) to the Executive
Committee, with power to take such action as might be
deemed necessary. Regent Sawyer, of the Executive Committee, stated that as the President expected to be in Washington within the next few days the Board might request
him to discuss the whole question with representatives of
the Surgeon General's Office. On Regent Sawyer's motion, the President was requested to take up the matter accordingly.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board appointed Miss
Agnes Wells, at present Social Director of the Newberry
Residence, as Acting Dean of Women during the months
of January to June, I918, inclusive, while Dean Jordan is
absent on leave. Miss Wells's compensation is to be $750
for this period, to be paid out of the salary of Dean Jordan. The appointment of Miss Wells was with the understanding that she would in turn employ a satisfactory substitute, presumably Miss Mary Porter, to assist in her work
as Social Director, with compensation to this appointee to be
paid by Miss Wells at the rate of $60 per month.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board approved the
plan for taking care of the work of Assistant Librarian F.
P. Jordan, outlined in Mr. Jordan's letter, as follows:PRESIDENT H. B. HUTCHINS,
DEAR SIR:
After consultation with Librarian Bishop I am writing
to present the following plan for having my work done during my leave of absence, asking you to put it before the
Regents for their approval. I should like to have Mrs.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917


6i


Clare Mullett, who has been my assistant the past year, do
my work. Both Mr. Bishop and I feel that she is the only
one in the Library competent to do my work. She will continue at her present salary and Mr. Bishop wishes the question of filling her place left in abeyance, giving him the authority to engage such help as he finds necessary, with the
understanding that the salary paid do not exceed the half
of my salary for the six months in question, from this
Christmas vacation till the end of June, I9I8.
Very truly yours,
F. P. JORDAN
Ann Arbor, October 4, 1917
The leaves of absence to Mr. and Mrs. Jordan were
originally granted at the July meeting, 19I7 (see page 84I).
The Secretary presented a letter from Mr. Charles Gleason, of Bitely, Michigan, offering to purchase 640 acres of
land owned by the Regents (as part of the Williams Professorship Fund) in Newaygo County. On motion of Regent Leland, the Board referred the question to Regent
Beal and to Superintendent Keeler for investigation and report.
Regent Gore made an oral statement relative to the relations between the Board and Mrs. Margaret E. Hunt
(see page I). A summary of Regent Gore's statement is
found in the following report in writing filed by him:In the matter of the application of Margaret E. Hunt,
I beg to submit the following report:I have had access to copies of the deeds, the letters
of the donors, and I think all relevant documents, including
correspondence and cruises.
The intention of the donors in deeding these lands to
the University was clearly twofold: (i) To provide for the
family of Charles J. and Margaret E. Hunt, and (2) through
the scholarships proposed to extend aid to deserving students and thereby serve the University.
It stands conceded that the legal rights and status of the
parties concerned are fixed by the deeds themselves. A trust
has thereby been established and the same accepted by the
University. I find, however, an earnest desire on the part
of all parties concerned to take such action as will place a
substantial sum of money, derived from this property, in the




62


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917
possession of Mrs. Hunt for immediate use. I heartily con —
cur in this sentiment. In view of the generous nature of
the donations and the fine spirit of the donors in making
them. the most liberal co-operation should be pursued to
the extent that such action is consistent with the trust imposed.
We are, however, face to face with certain legal propositions of an exacting character. It is too plain for argument
that the Regents have no legal authority to make a loan to
one of the benefactors of the University upon terms which
the Regents would disapprove if the loan was sought by a
third person. The trust must, therefore, be performed as laid
down, otherwise confusion and loss will result. Unfortunately Mrs. Hunt is not in a position to use or pledge her
contingent interest in this property in such a manner as to
secure the repayment of a loan to her. Moreover, she, of
course, cannot bind the numerous third persons named as
beneficiaries in the several deeds. In my judgment a loan
under the circumstances might well be considered, but for
the entire lack of power in the Regents.
Both parties must respect the language of the trust as
embodied in the deeds and we must look to them for our
guidance.
The deeds provide that the lands may be sold "at such
time and for such price as may hereafter be requested in
writing by the parties of the first part," or the survivor of
them. The whole method of handling the property, including this sale, is thus provided for in the deeds themselves.
This furnishes, in my judgment, the only legal and I think
the only practicable method of meeting both the responsibility of the Regents in the premises and the requirements
of Mrs. Hunt. The Regents would undoubtedly have authority to pay a commission for the sale of these lands; and
such a commission may very properly be paid to Mrs. Hunt
for making a sale of a portion thereof.
I, therefore, recommend that a tract, or tracts, of the
California lands be sold, at a minimum figure to be agreed
upon between Mrs. Hunt and the Regents, and that a substantial commission, also, to be agreed upon, be paid to
Mrs. Hunt for producing a purchaser at such minimum
price or for effecting a sale, as the case may be.
Respectfully submitted,
VICTOR M. GORE




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917


63


On motion of Regent Sawyer, the whole question involved was referred to Regent Gore with full power to
make with Mrs. Hunt such an agreement as might be proper,
or otherwise to adjust the matter.
Regent Sawyer read the following communication from
the Secretary:To the Honorable Board of Regents:
In accordance with the expressed wish of the donor I
beg to give notice for the records that there has been deeded
to the Regents from various sources the following described
land within the City of Ann Arbor:I. All the land between Geddes Avenue, Washtenaw Avenue, and Volland Street west of and including
Lot 77 of Smith's Addition and Lot 90 of Smith's Third
Addition to the City of Ann Arbor.
2. Lot 5, Block 6 South, Range I2 East according
to the alteration of the Ann Arbor Land Company's
Addition to the Village (now City) of Ann Arbor.
The first mentioned parcel includes a frontage on
Geddes Avenue of 132 feet, a frontage on Washtenaw
Avenue of 264 feet, and a frontage on Volland Street of
about 348 feet, while the east line is 264 feet long. It is
made up of (a) the so-called Israel Hall homestead at
the corner of Volland and Washtenaw, (b) the Chapin
property immediately back of it,-house and lot, (c)
Wuerth-Schryver property, a vacant lot, which was acquired by condemnation, (d) the DuBois house and lot
at the corner of Washtenaw and Geddes Avenues, and
the Glazier house and lot immediately back of the DuBois property.
The second parcel was a house and full-sized lot
immediately south of the Martha Cook Building. The
house has been cleared off and the property is being
fitted up by the donor for recreation purposes for the
girls of the Martha Cook Building.
The total cost of the first mentioned parcel was
$42,740.13. The cost of the second piece was $4,000.
Respectfully submitted,
SHIRLEY W. SMITH
November I5, I917
On Regent Sawyer's motion, the Board accepted this
gift with grateful appreciation.




64


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917


On motion of Regent Gore, the following resolutions
were adopted (see page 9):Whereas, The Regents of the University of Michigan, a
corporation created by and existing under the Constitution
of the State of Michigan, desires to construct for the necessary purposes of the University a building for a dormitory
and residence hall for students of the University of Michigan, in a suitable location adjacent to the campus, and said
corporation does not hold title to sufficient real estate so
located, but needs to acquire real estate for the site of said
building, and the following described land in the City of
Ann Arbor, Washtenaw County and State of Michigan has
been selected as a necessary portion of the most available
site for such purposes, to-wit:
"Lots 13, 14, I5, and I6, Block 6 South, Range 12 East,
according to the alteration of the Ann Arbor Land Company's Addition to the Village (now City) of Ann Arbor,
Washtenaw County, State of Michigan."
4Ad Whereas, said corporation now owns lands adjoining the property above described, and.
Whereas, said corporation has endeavored to purchase
said above described property from the owners thereof, and
is unable to do so at a price at all commensurate with its
value,
Now Therefore, it is resolved that the taking of the
above described property be and is hereby declared necessary for the public use of said University, and that the attorneys of the Regents of the University of Michigan be requested to institute legal proceedings provided by law to
condemn said property, and that the Secretary of the Regents of the University of Michigan be authorized and directed' to sign and verify, in behalf of the Regents of the
University of Michigan, a petition for the condemnation of
said property, and all other papers necessary or proper in
the conduct of said condemnation proceedings.
Regent Leland reported for the Committee to which had
been referred the request of six students for concessions in
fees (see page Io). In accordance with the report of the
Committee the Board took the following action: (a) Arthur
Bohn was authorized to register as a resident of Michigan for the present year. (b) Van C. Kussrow was held
to be a non-resident of Michigan.    (c) Refund of tuition




NOVEMBER MEETING, I917


65


as requested by John W. Fonner was authorized.  (d) It
was held that Laylin K. James was a non-resident during
1914-I915, but that during I915-I916 and thereafter he
might properly be regarded as a resident. Refund of fees
paid was authorized in accordance with the above.  (e)
Norman B. Muhme was not allowed to pay a half-fee for
half-time work. (f) Walter J. Grierson was held to be
a non-resident of the State.
Librarian Bishop appeared before the Board and stated
that acting under instructions from Regent Clements (who
bore all the expenses incident to the work), consent had
been obtained last spring from the trustees of the Lexington Public Library and from the Burton Historical Library
to reproduce by photostat process the unique files of the
Kentucky Gazette (I787-8o00) and the Detroit Gazette
(1817-1830). Circulars were sent out to leading Libraries
inviting subscriptions at a cost of $850 and $750, respectively; the cost of the Kentucky Gazette ($850) would include the expense of furnishing a copy for the Lexington
Public Library gratis. Mr. Bishop filed copies of the circular, In response to these circulars, eight subscriptions
to the Kentucky Gazette, and six to the Detroit Gazette had
been received, while several of the larger libraries were
yet to be heard from, probably insuring the financial success of the operation. The question of method of procedure had been under consideration, and Mr. Bishop stated
that the estimates had been based on the cost of having the
work done by a commercial operator. A better method
appeared to him to be to purchase a photostat machine
(which will be required in the new library building) and
bave the work done by the University. The cost of the
photostat machine would ultimately be recovered in the returns from facsimiles, and there is now available in the
Natural Science Building a good room for the work. The
photostat would cost, with lights, etc., about $950. Mr.
Bishop showed samples of such newspaper reproductions,
and further enumerated various ways in which the photostat
would be useful both to the work of the Library and to other
departments on the campus.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board authorized
the carrying out of the plan, including the purchase and




66


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917


installation of a photostat and such expense as might be
necessary to provide supplies and the salary of an operator.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board authorized
the publication by the University of a catalogue of the
Carlyle collection of the Library, at an estimated cost within
$450 for 500 copies.
Regent Clements reported in the matter of plans for
the new hospital unit (see page io) that some progress
had been made and that he would be able in a short time
to make a formal report.
Regent Leland stated that he had allowed the requested
loan to Jacob Kassanin from the 1894 Class Loan Fund (see
page 32).
Regent Beal reported for the committee which had
taken up the offer of Mr. H. H. Herbst (see page 32) to
turn over to the University certain Ann Arbor property
owned by him, that the committee had had a conference
with Mr. Herbst. The property involved was the house at
I317 Washtenaw Avenue. Mr. Herbst made alternative
proposals (a) to purchase the vacant lot adjoining this
property on the west and to deed the combined premises
to the Regents in consideration of a survivorship life annuity to himself and wife within limits of from $50 to $60
per month, or (b) to deed now the present house and lot
without adding the lot to the west, this deed to retain a life
estate in the property for himself, the management and
income thereof to remain with him until his death. Mr.
Beal suggested that the opinion of the attorneys of the
Regents be secured on legal points involved in proposition
"b." The committee was adverse to accepting proposition
"a." The matter was informally continued with the committee with the understanding that the Board's attorneys
would be consulted.
Regent Hubbard reported as Chairman of the Engineering Committee that the Committee had approved an increase
in salary for Associate Professor Arthur J. Decker from
$2,200 to $2,400, and a promotion of Mr. James H. Cissel
to be Assistant Professor of Structural Engineering, with
salary of $I,700. Both these changes were to date from the
beginning of the present University year (see page 32). The
report was accepted and adopted.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917


67


Regent Hubbard further reported that the title of Felix
W. Pawlowski had been fixed as "Assistant Professor of
Aeronautical Engineering"; the title of William  F. Gerhardt had been fixed as "Instructor in Aeronautical Engineering"; and the salary of Clyde E. Wilson, as Assistant
Professor of Mechanical Engineering, had been fixed at
$2,000 for the year I917-I918 (see page 45). The report was accepted and adopted.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board authorized the
payment of $120 to Mr. E. D. Warner for services rendered in the purchase of the property at I209 Geddes Avenue.
The President reported that it had proved possible to
do without the services of the additional assistant in qualitative analysis requested at the October meeting (see page
47).
Superintendent Keeler made a statement setting forth
the advantages from his point of view as Superintendent
of Public Instruction lying in the recent appointment of
Dr. George E. Myers as Professor of Industrial Education
(see pages 26 and 29). Superintendent Keeler foresaw
great benefits to the educational program and to the industrial development of the State through the expected results of Professor Myers's work.
Regent Leland presented the annual report of the Treasurer and of the Secretary of the University transmitted with
the following letter:HONORABLE FRANKI B. LELAND,
Chairman Finance Committee,
Detroit, Michigan.
DEAR SIR: —
We attach hereto our joint report as Treasurer and as
Secretary of the University for the fiscal year ended June
30, I917.
This joint report is the outgrowth of the recommendation made about eight years ago by the Carnegie Foundation
for the Advancement of Teaching to the effect that all colleges and universities should report on a uniform basis, or
as nearly a uniform basis as could be arrived at, with the
view of making it more simple and easy to compare reports of these institutions, as the reports of insurance com



68


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917


panies, banks and other business corporations may be compared. Since then the Association of Business Officers of
Middle Western State Universities and Colleges has accordingly worked out the numerous questions involved and has
finally arrived at recommendations for reports of various
institutions essentially in the form herewith presented.
The principle under which the Regents of this University have established the Secretary's office and the Treasurer's office is that these offices, wholly independent, constitute
an audit upon each other. The Secretary's office carries the
accounting in detail; the Treasurer's office as the receiving
and disbursing office carries the accounting by larger funds.
The report herewith reconciles the accounts of the two and
shows their agreement both with respect to the regular or
State funds of the University and with respect to the gift or
trust funds.
The various statenents and schedules included in the
report are in accordance with the list herewith attached. Not
all of them have been typewritten since while the pen-written
sheets are necessarily much bulkier than the typewritten copies would be, they are equally satisfactory to send to the
printer and a considerable amount of work can be saved by
not typewriting them. Typewritten samples, schedules No.
I, 2, 3, and 5, which are the basic schedules, are sent you
herewith.
A sample, already in print during each of the last several years, of the general form and size of this report is
found in the report of the Ohio State University.
AWe trust the usual authorization may be given to print
500 copies.
We are accompanying this by a formal letter of transmittal to be printed in the report.
Respectfully submitted,
R. A. CAMPBELL,
Treasurer
S. W. SMITH,
Secretary
November 15, 1917
On motion of Regent Leland this joint report was accepted and adopted by the Regents as the Regents' report
to the Governor of the State and authority was given to
print the usual number of copies,-not over 500. As the
report in printing economically will require a larger type




NOVEMBER MEETING, I9I7


69


page than that of the Regents' Proceedings, it is not printed
as an appendix to the report of this meeting.
Regent Leland reported that he had authorized the
Treasurer to convert $40,000 worth of first Liberty Loan
312% bonds, purchased of Faculty members in accordance
with the resolution found on page 9, into 4% bonds of the
second loan. After discussion growing out of the circumstance of lack of investment funds sufficient to cover the
purchase price of all Liberty Bonds authorized to be bought,
the Board voted, on motion of Regent Clements, to refer
these questions to the Finance Committee with authority to
make such arrangements, including sale if necessary, as may
be required to meet the situation.
Superintendent Keeler was excused.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board referred to the
Buildings and Grounds Committee, with power, the possible straightening of Volland Street near its point of intersection with Washtenaw Avenue.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board fixed a fee of
$2 for the certificate to be given graduate nurses who complete at the University Training School for Nurses a threeyears' executive course (see page 75I, April meeting).
In accordance with the recommendation of Professor
HI. M. Randall and Dean Effinger, the Board authorized the
appointment as Assistants in Physics, to date from November I9, with salary in each case at the rate of $300 per
year, of Miss Jeannette Armstrong, Miss Helen L. Nicholson, and Mr. Cecil Hughes. These appointments are made
necessary by leave of absence to Assistant Professor David
L. Webster.
A communication was received from Professor Clarence T. Johnston, transmitted by the Secretary, urging the
reimbursement to Instructors at Camp Davis of their expenditure for board. On motion of Regent Hubbard, this
question was referred to the Summer Session Committee
for a report.
A communication was received from   Superintendent
Flook transmitting a report showing the completion of the
new laundry building and inviting the Board to inspect the
building. The report further took up certain general questions involved in the operation of the laundry, and urged the




70


NOVEMBER MEETING, 9r17


necessity of providing a water-softening plant and the immediate desirability of an automobile collection and delivery service for the laundry. No action was taken at this
time.
A communication from Mrs. Mary Reed Hussey, as Secretary, notified the Regents that at a meeting of the Board
of Governors of the Alumnae Hall on Washtenaw Avenue,
Miss Sara T. Hollands had been elected Social Director.
The election of Miss Hollands was confirmed by the Regents, on motion of Regent Hanchett.
The Secretary informed the Board that the special
watchman service at the marine tank in the Engineering
Building (see May meeting, page 78I) had been discontinued with the end of September. On motion of Regent
Sawyer, the Board added to the janitors' pay roll the sum
of $264 to cover the expense of this watchman during the
three months of July, August, and September.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board set aside the
sum of $172.52 to cover the expense of walks built at the
Alumnae Residence Hall, 1227 Washtenaw Avenue, and
the expected expense for grading.
The Secretary filed a letter of appreciation from Mr.
E. C. Pardon, Assistant Superintendent of Grounds, expressing Mr. Pardon's thanks for the leave of absence
granted him (see page 37).
Communications were received from Professor E. C.
Goddard, Chairman of the Administrative Committee of the
Law School, relative to a deficit in the running expenses of
the Michigan Law Review, and proposing means by which
this deficit could be met through savings in the budget of
the School. On motion of Regent Hubbard, this matter was
referred to the Regents' Committee on the Law School for
investigation of the affairs of the Law Review and a report to the Board recommending procedure.
The following letter was filed, and on motion of Regent Sawyer, leave was granted to Professor Stoner -in accordance with his request:The Board of Regents of the University of Michigan.
GINTLEMEN:I have been offered a commission as Captain in the Sanitary Corps, N. A., with headquarters in the office of the




NOVEMBER MEETING, 19.7


7I


Surgeon General at Washington, to act as legal adviser and
representative of that office. After a sober consideration
of the matter, and after consultation with the President,
Dean Bates and the members of the Executive Committee
of the Law School, I have determined it to be my duty to
accept the proffered place, have been examined by Dr.
Peterson and passed by him, and am awaiting final word of
confirmation from Washington.
Even though there is a slight possibility that the officers
at Washington may reverse Dr. Peterson's acceptance when
the report of my physical examination reaches them, at President Hutchins's suggestion I am addressing your Board at
the present time to ask you to grant me a leave of absence
from December I, 1917, for the period of the war and to
make such salary adjustment as is your custom in such
cases, the entire arrangement to be made conditional on my
actual receipt of the commission mentioned.
I enclose a telegram from Dean Bates giving his consent
to my application to you for leave of absence.
Respectfully yours,
GORDON STONER
November I6, 1917
Regent Gore was excused.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board continued
throughout the present University year the present Comnlittee in control of the Alumni Memorial Hall, namely,
Regent Gore, Judge C. B. Grant, Professor H. R. Cross.
A communication was received from Professor Stanley
notifying the Board of the gift for the Stearns collection
of a "Cecilian" automatic piano-player, from    Mr. James
H. McDonald, '76, '781, of Royal Oak, Michigan, the gift
coming through Mrs. E. B. Gibson, of Ann Arbor. On motion of Regent Beal, the gift was accepted with the thanks
of the Regents to those through whose generosity it came.
The President filed a letter from the Honorable Elihu
Root expressing his appreciation of the honorary degree of
Doctor of Laws tendered him at Commencement, I917,
and his regret that owing to his absence upon the Russian
mission he had been unable to accept.
Librarian Bishop communicated to the Regents a gift
by Mr. O. L. Spaulding, of Washington, D. C., to the University Library, of 310 bound volumes and 754 unbound




72


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917


pamphlets and magazines, chiefly in the field of Masonic
literature. On motion of Regent Sawyer, this gift was
accepted with thanks to the donor.
Superintendent Keeler returned and took his seat.
The President filed a long letter under date of October. from  Professor C. B. Vibbert as head of the Michigan
Bureau of the American University Union in Europe. The
letter detailed some of the activities of the Union, mentioned
the appreciation on the part of University men abroad in
the service as shown by their acceptance of the privileges
offered, and made recommendations particularly with respect to the budget. The President stated that the expenses
proposed in the budget could probably be met by subscriptions of various University organizations and others.   In
this connection the President filed the following letter from
Mr. Warren Jay Vinton, of the Class of I9II:
PRESIDENT HARRY B. HUTCHINS,
University of Michigan.
MY DEAR PRESIDENT HUTCHINS:I beg to confirm herewith the details of our recent conversations regarding my going to Paris in connection with
the American University Union.
If you and the Board of Regents so desire I will at once
proceed to Paris as Secretary or Assistant to Professor
Vibbert, and will undertake any and all services which I
can render for the University of Michigan Bureau of the
American University Union or for the Union itself.
It is understood that I am to go as a volunteer worker
without salary. If, however, you find yourself with sufficient
funds available I would be glad to have you reimburse me
for my actual traveling and living expenses while in this
service. If, on the other hand, you are not able to so reimburse me I will assume all such expenses myself and you will
be under no obligation therefor.
Very sincerely yours,
WARREN JAY VINTON
November 15, I917
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board. accepted,
with an expression of deep appreciation of its generosity,
the offer of Mr. Vinton to serve at his own expense and
without salary as Secretary or Assistant to Professor Vibbert.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917


7'3


Professor Kelsey communicated to the Regents the fact
of the gift under date of March 6, last, by'Mr. Walter S.
Harsha, who has since died, of a collection of coins comprising 923 specimens which Professor Kelsey has since inventoried as follows:(i) Coins of the United States.
Gold........................  ii
Silver.......................84
Copper, including tokens....348
Total, United States......    443
(2) Foreign coins.
Gold........................  I
Silver........................  8
Copper, including tokens....373
Total, foreign........      455
(3) Ancient coins.
Silver and baser metals...... I8  IS
Total number of coins....             916
Paper currency.
(I) United States...........  2
(2) Foreign..............   5
Total, paper currency......             7
Grand total of items in collection            923
On motion of Regent Beal, this gift was accepted with
an expression of the thanks of the Board to Mr. John W.
Harsha, brother of Walter S. Harsha, since it was through
Mr. John W. Harsha that the gift had been tendered to the
University.
Professor Newcombe communicated to the Regents a
gift to the Department of Botany of the private laboratory
of the late Newton B. Pierce, student in the University from
T887 to I889, who died at Santa Ana, Calif., in.October,
T916. The gift came from Mr. Pierce's widow, Mrs. Maude
B. Lacy Pierce, and consisted of a roll-top desk, sterilizers,
incubators, glassware, stains, and chemicals. On motion of
Regent Hubbard, this gift was accepted with the thanks of
the Regents.




74


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917


A request, including letters of endorsement from a considerable number of friends of the University, was received
from Mrs. Helen G. Bowen, President of the Collegiate Bureau of Occupations of Detroit, for a contribution by the
University to the work of this Bureau. In view of the financial condition of the University, on motion of Regent
Hubbard, this request was declined.
A communication was received from Dean Cooley stating reasons for belief that the Faculty of Chemical Engineering, and of Chemistry might be, in their researches,
near results which would have importance in facilitating the
production of aluminum, and promising for the Packard
Motor Car Corporation financial support necessary to prosecute these researches. Dean Cooley requested permission
from the Regents for members of the Faculties engaged
in this work to give their attention to it at the expense of
other work if necessary. On motion of Regent Clements,
this communication was referred to the Committtee on the
Colleges of Engineering and Architecture for report.
Librarian Bishop communicated to the Regents a gift by
Mr. Arthur Kiefer, acting for the Kiefer family, of certain
very valuable papers from the library of his father, the late
Dr. Hermann Kiefer. These papers include Dr. Kiefer's
recollections of his part in the German Revolution of I848
and, in the opinion of the Librarian, are not only valuable
historically, but have a distinct literary significance. On
motion of Regent Clements, this gift was accepted with the
thanks of the Regents.
Librarian Bishop informed the Regents of a further
gift to the Library, this being from Dr. Hugo Erichsen,
connected with Parke, Davis & Company, of Detroit. Dr.
Erichsen's gift included 963 pieces of manuscripts, photographs, clippings, and booklets. This gift was made upon
the condition by the donor that it be made available to students and scholars, and that certain material may be from
time to time exhibited in the Library's new building. On
motion of Regent Clements, the Board accepted the gift
under the conditions stated and with thanks to the donor.
The following communication was received through
Dean Effinger from James W. Glover, Professor of Mathematics and Insurance:



NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917


75


DEAN JOHN R. EFFINGrSR,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
University of Michigan.
DEArs DE.AN E]FINGER:I should like to request the Honorable Board of Regents
through you to grant me permission to undertake service
in the War Risk Bureau in response to the following telegram:"Washington, D. C., November 9, I917
"PROFESSOR JAMES W. GLOVER,
University of Michigan,
620 Oxford Rd., Ann Arbor, Mich.
"I should like to appoint you to membership on the
Advisory Board of the Division of Military and Naval
Insurance and hope very greatly that you will find it
possible to assist in this important work. Please wire
reply.                     (Signed)
"W. G. McADoo"
I have made arrangements so that my class work will
continue uninterruptedly during my absence and believe the
nature of the service required will permit me to be in Ann
Arbor more than half of the time.
There are three members on this Advisory Board who
are responsible for all of the expert technical work in connection with the government insurance plan for enlisted
men in the army and navy. M/y training and study along
insurance and actuarial lines make it possible for me to be
useful in the organization of this Bureau.
Very sincerely yours,
JAMES W. GLOVER
On motion of Regent Sawyer, leave was granted as requested provided that the Regents' Committee on the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the President
approve the arrangements for care of Professor Glover's
work during his absence.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted salary
from the University at the rate of $500 per year from    October I, I9I7, to Lieutenant George C. Mullen, Professor
of Military Science and Tactics.
A  communication    was received    from   Dr. Peterson,
Medical Director of the University Hospital, relative to a




76


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917


proposed addition to the space occupied by the Syphilology
and Dermatology Department. On motion of Regent Sawyer, this matter was referred to the Buildings and Grounds
Committee and the Medical Committee, with power.
Regent Sawyer was excused.
Reports were received from the Executive Committee,
as follows, and on motion of Regent Clements, the various
actions taken by the Committee were approved and confirmed by the Board:To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
G4NTILTMN: —
Your Executive Committee held a meeting in Ann
Arbor on the evening of October 31 and begs to make the following report of its actions:I. With Professor Peterson in conference the Committee took up the matter of a proposed reconstruction hospital
for soldiers, referred to this Committee with power at your
meeting of October 12. It was decided to send to the medical corps officials at Washington the statements of the various University departments, indicating what such departments could contribute to the advantage of patients of such
a hospital. The Committee further authorized the making,
in accordance with request from Washington, of a topographical map of the two possible sites for such a hospital,
namely, the property purchased of Bishop Kelly and the
property more immediately to the eastward of the present
hospital site.
2. Dean W. B. Hinsdale desired to attend the meeting
of the Southern Medical Association to be held at Washington during the week of November I2. In view of the
importance of this meeting to the Homceopathic School and
Hospital, as urged by Dr. Hinsdale, the Committee authorized his attendance, with the expenses to be charged to the
Homceopathic School budget. Dean Hinsdale's communi-,cation is attached hereto.
3. A letter was received from Mr. F. L. D. Goodrich,
Reference Librarian, asking for leave of absence in order
that he might take charge, under an appointment offered by
the American Library Association, which is for the purpose
in question under the general direction of the United States
Commission on Training Camp Activities, of the library for
soldiers at Camp Wadsworth, Spartanburg, South Carolina.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917                        77
This request was seconded by Librarian Bishop under the
following proposed arrangement:(a) Leave to Mr. Goodrich for six months from November
I or thereabouts.
(b) Appointment to Mr. Goodrich's duties of Miss Fredericka B. Gillette, at present Assistant Reference Librarian, with salary to Miss Gillette during the time
she performs Mr. Goodrich's duties at the rate of
$I,500 per year instead of at the rate of $1,200, her
present salary.
(c) Appointment of Miss Eleanor M. Hill of the Detroit
Public Library, temporarily to take the regular work
of Miss Gillette with salary to Miss Hill at the rate
of $I,200, Miss Gillette's regular salary.
(d) Allowance to MIr. Goodrich of the difference between
the salary paid Miss Gillette during his absence and
his regular salary, which allowance would be at the
rate of $300 per year. As Mr. Goodrich will receive
pay from the Library Association at the rate of $I,200
per year with subsistence and traveling expense, he
is actually sacrificing somewhat even with the $300
allowance thus saved from his salary.
Your Committee under the circumstances felt that the
needs of the government service required the granting of
this request and accordingly gave Mr. Goodrich leave and
made the appointments recommended by Librarian Bishop.
The communications of Librarian Bishop and Mr. Goodrich
are attached hereto.
3. Leave was also granted to Assistant Professor David
L. Webster of the Department of Physics to enable him to
accept a first lieutenancy to do research work on aviation
instruments in accordance with the very pressing request of
President Millikin of the National Research Council. This
leave was granted as of November I. As Professor Webster
will receive more pay from the government than his University salary, no allowance of salary was requested for him
during his absence. Authority was given to Professor Randall and Dean Effinger to name a substitute, at an instructor's salary, as soon as such a proper substitute can be found.
The communications referred to are hereto attached.
4. A communication was received from Dr. Warren
Et. Forsythe, Executive Head of the University Health Service, transmitting the resignation of Dr. C. P. Drury, to take
effect on November I. Dr. Drury asked release in order




78


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917


that he might accept a position of greater importance and
larger salary elsewhere. Your Committee accepted his resignation with regret.
In accordance with Dr. Forsythe's request your Committee voted to change Dr. Forsythe's title from "Executive
Head of the University Health Service" to "Director of the
University Health Service."
Dr. Forsythe stated that in order to make the calls required by the student body, he found an 'automobile would
be, in his judgment, a necessity and requested an addition
to his salary of $600, in consideration of which he would
agree to own and maintain an automobile for use in his
University work. Your Committee voted to allow Dr. Forsythe the necessary taxicab service until the next meeting
of the Regents and to refer the request for auto service
thereafter to the Board as a whole. Dr. Forsythe's request
and Dr. Drury's resignation are attached hereto.
All the actions relating to the Health Service were taken
with the provision that they were subject to the approval of
Regent Hanchett, who with the President and Regent Sawyer make up the Health Service Committee.
5. At your meeting held October I2, you referred to
this Committee, with power, the request of Professor F. N.
Scott for an additional instructor in the Department of
Rhetoric. After consideration Professor Scott agreed that
if $Ioo could be added to the budget of the Rhetoric Department and permission given to use $200 saved by appointments of substitutes at lower salaries than the original appointees, and an assistant at the salary of $300, thus provided, could be given to the Department, the Department
could manage its work. Accordingly the Committee added
$Ioo to the budget and appointed Mrs. Edith Taylor Adams,
A.B. I9Io, as Assistant in Rhetoric with salary at the rate
of $300 per year from the date at which she should take up
her duties.  Professor Scott's communication is attached
hereto.
6. At your meeting of October I2, you referred to the
Executive Committee, with power, "adjustment of any salary question involved in the action embodied in the resolution vacating the position of Dr. Carl E. Eggert."  Your
Committee voted that Professor Eggert's salary be paid to
January I, 1918.
7. At the Board meeting of June 22, I917 (see page
788), the Regents voted "in the cases of men leaving the




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917                          79
University for government service at a lower salary than
the salary they were currently receiving from the University, to pay to the absentee the difference between the
University salary and his salary from the government." The
Secretary of the University inquired, for his guidance in
making up the pay 'roll, whether "salary from the government" should include allowance for or the commuted value
of food and clothing furnished by the government gratis.
The Secretary was advised that it was the understanding of
the Committee that the term "salary" as used in the Regents'
communication did include such allowances or commuted
values.
The Committee respectfully asks your approval of all the
above actions.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. B^AL
WALTER H. SAwYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
November I, 1917
To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTLMEN l -
Your Executive Committee at a meeting held October
25, I917, granted a leave of absence for the current year to
Instructor Edward M. Honan, who has been called to the
federal service and who has been obliged to leave his work.
In place of Dr. Honan your Committee appointed as Acting
Instructor for the year I9I7-I918, at a salary of $I,ooo, Mr.
Orin Edward Madison, his term of service to begin October
I, I917. This appointment was made upon the recommendation of the Director of the Chemical Laboratory hereto attached. Your Committee asks that this action be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BrAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
October 26, 1917
'To the Regents of the University of Michigan.:GENTLEMN:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held October
I6, 1917, appointed Mr. Wynand Wichers to the position of
Instructor in the Department of History for the current
year at a salary of $I,ooo. This appointment was made to




80


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917
fill a vacancy caused by the resignation of Dr. McLean who
is in the public service. As Dr. McLean's salary was $1,300,
the appointment of Mr. Wichers involves no addition to the
budget.
It was necessary that this appointment be made before
the next meeting of the Board, as the services of Mr. Wichers were needed at once.
Attached hereto is a letter from Professor Van Tyne,
head of the History Department, and approved by Dean Effinger, upon which the foregoing action was based.
The Committee asks that its action be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
October 17, 1917               H. B. HUTCHINS
To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEN:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held November
5, I917, granted leave of absence for the remainder of the
University year to Mr. Orlan W. Boston, Instructor in Engineering Mechanics, who has accepted a commission as
ensign in the United States Navy Reserve Force and who
has been ordered to Washington. This leave was granted
without salary. As Mr. Boston's salary as a federal officer
is more than he is receiving from the University, nothing
will be paid to him during his absence. The Committee is
advised by Dean Cooley that his work will be taken care of.
Your Committee requests that its action be confirmed
by the full Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
November 6, 1917               H. B. HUTCHINS
To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTLtEMEN:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held November
5, I917, granted leave of absence for the remainder of the
year without salary to Professor Moses Gomberg of the
Department of Chemistry, who has been called to the federal
service, as explained in a letter from him to the President
of the University attached hereto. His rank will be that of




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917


Captain. Your Committee felt that under the circumstances
it was the duty of Professor Gomberg to accept the call.
His work during the present semester, as explained, will
be carried by other members of the Department. It will be
necessary next semester to provide additional help. Your
Committee understands that Professor Gomberg, by virtue
of a resolution of the Board, will be paid the difference
between his salary as Captain and his University salary.
Your Committee asks that this action be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BeAL
WA LT:R H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
November 5, 1917
The report of Professor Alfred H. Lloyd as Dean of
the Graduate School, for the year I916-I9I7, was received,
and on motion of Regent Clements, was accepted and ordered filed.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board extended its
thanks to Mrs. Frederic B. Stevens, of Detroit, for her payment of a loan made some years ago from the Lucinda Hinsdale Stone Supplementary Loan Scholarship Fund to a
young colored woman, Mabel Harper, who died soon after
making the loan.
On motion of Regent Clements, the thanks of the Board
were voted to Mr. Jean A. Wetmore, of the Class of I88I,
for his latest gift to the art collection of the University,,
this gift consisting of
"A New England Scene," by Henry P. Smith
"A Landscape," by Olive Black
"Wilkommen," by Carl Becker
"The Convalescent," by A. L. Fischbach
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board expressed its
thanks to the Michigan College of Mines for the loan to the
Department of Mineralogy and Petrography of one of the
College's duplicate collection of Michigan rocks and
minerals.
Professor Kraus communicated to the Regents a gift
by Regent L. L. Hubbard to the Department of Mineralogy
and Petrography consisting of 165 mineral substances




82


NOV EMBER MEETING, 1917


largely illustrative of occurrences in the Lake Superior district, and a collection of 132 wooden crystal models made
by Krantz, of Bonn, Germany. On motion of Regent Clements, Regent Hubbard's colleagues upon the Board expressed their appreciation of his gift.
Professor Kelsey gave notice of a remittance by Mr.
William  H. Murphy of $I,ooo for the Humanistic Series,
Volume XII, and also of the gift by Mrs. Theodore D.
Buhl, of Detroit, of $500 to the credit of the Buhl Classical
Fellowship. On motion of Regent Hubbard, the thanks of
the Regents were extended to the donors.
On motion of Regent Beal, the request of Associate
Professor Charles S. Berry for leave of absence which
would permit him to accept a commission in the United
States Army as psychological examiner, was granted, in
accordance with the resolution of June 22 (see page 788)
with the understanding that the leave should be effective
from the time Professor Berry should be called away from
the University and into the service.
In accordance with the recommendation of Director
Henderson of the University Extension Courses, appointments of Instructors and Assistants for the Extension
Courses for Credit, in Detroit and Jackson, were made as
follows:Detroit courses:
Professor R. M. Wenley, Philosophy,............$300.
Professor C. H. Van Tyne, History,............. 300.
Professor H. R. Cross. Fine Arts,............... 300.
Professor T. E. Rankin, Rhetoric,................ 300.
Jackson courses:
Professor S. F. Gingerich, English,............ 300.
Professor C. O. Davis, Education,............... 300.
Assistants:
Mrs. Catherine D. Wenley, Assistant to
Professor Wenley,.......................... 75.
Miss Ella S. Hoghton, Assistant to
Professor  Cross,............................  75.
Mr. 0. W. Stephenson, Assistant to
Professor Van Tyne......................... 75.
Mr. Wise, for operating lantern in Detroit,
Professor Cross's course (per evening)......  I.




NO VEMBER MEETING, 1917


83


On motion of Regent Beal, the Board granted the request of Professor Campbell Bonner for authority to attend at University expense the annual meeting, at Philadelphia, of the American Philological Association, of which
Professor Bonner is an officer.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate School,
the degree of Master of Arts was conferred upon Emma
Jane Ennis, Ph.B., Hiram College, and Paul James Schmid,
Josephinum College.
Dean Lloyd communicated to the Regents the fact that
Mr. Wynand Wichers had resigned his University Fellowship, with stipend of $300, in order to accept appointment
as Instructor in History for the present year.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, nominations by Dean
Lloyd and by the President to membership in the Executive
Board of the Graduate School were confirmed by the Regents, as follows:To succeed Professor F. N. Scott, whose term has expired, Dean John R. Effinger
In place of Dean V. C. Vaughan, who is expected to
be absent for the present year, Dr. G. Carl Huber
In place of Professor Jesse S. Reeves, who is also expected to be absent for the year, Professor E. D. Campbell
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board granted the request of Dr. Walter R. Parker for a leave of absence from
the Professorship of Ophthalmology in the Medical School
in order that he might accept service as Major in the Medical Reserve Corps. The leave is for the University year
1917-I918.
On motion of Regent Beal, and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the Medical School, Instructor George Slocum, M.D., was named as Acting Assistant Professor in charge of the Department of Ophthalmology for the University year I917-I918, with salary of
$2,000.
On motion of Regent Beal, formal appointment was
made of David D. Wallace as Acting Professor of American
History for the first semester, with salary at the rate of
$850 per year. Professor Wallace is carrying the work of




84


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917


Professor Ulrich B. Phillips on leave for the first semester
(see March meeting, page 721).
A request was received from 'Mr. H. A. Hill, a medical
student, who was called in the draft and did not receive furlough to continue his medical studies until the 20th of October, that he be given a special concession in fees in view of
the fact that he could not take laboratory work after arriving so late. On motion of Regent Leland, the Board
directed that if Mr. Hill paid full fees for this year's work,
he might be exempted from the payment of the fee during
the next Summer Session at which time he expects to make
up the laboratory work missed during the regular session.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board formally appointed
Mr. Frank L. Hager as Instructor in French at the salary of
$I,Ioo for the University year I917-I918, vice Assistant
Professor Rene Talamon, absent on leave.
The President filed a report by Director Henderson of
the University Extension Service, for the month ending
October 31. This report showed seventeen Extension lectures given during the month by eight members of the
Faculty, to a total of 3,7II auditors.  Four Extension
Courses for Credit had been organized in Detroit and two
ill Jackson. Slides and films have been furnished to the
Centerville Community Center Association, the Zeeland
Public Schools, and the Detroit Road Improvement Association. Sixty applications have been received by the Library Extension Service for material relating to debating
and public speaking, and bibliographies and package-pamphlet material have been forwarded to seventy-five applicants.
Two hundred and fifty copies of material have been furnished to debating classes on the subject of compulsory
arbitration of industrial disputes. A Michigan High School
Debating League in which fifty schools have already enrolled has been organized under the direction of Professor
R. K. Immel, of the Department of Oratory. It is expected that the final debate in the contests to be held within
this League will take place in Ann Arbor at the time of
the Interscholastic Athletic Meet. The report stated that
in accordance with the suggestion of General Dickman, in
command of Camp Custer, it was expected to begin active
Extension service at the Camp about the middle of No



NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917


85


venlber, and according to present plans three lines of service would be offered:(a) Class instruction 'in French, Elementary Physics and
Astronomy, and M1ap Reading;
(b) Informational illustrated lectures on the History and
Geography of France, Belgium, Italy, Russia, and adjacent territories.
(c) Inspirational and entertaining lectures and lecture recitals.
A request was received from Ira T. Hook, a graduate
of the Engineering College in 1913, and at present in the
Officers' Training Camp at Fort Monroe, Va., that his wife
might be permitted to take physical training instruction in
the Barbour Gymnasium, with payment only of the regular
fee required of University students who take work in the
Gymnasium. In view of the fact that Mr. Hook is in military service, the Board granted this request.
A communication was received from Mr. H. E. Westerdale stating that he left the University about the end of
the first semester of the year 1899-I900, without paying the
fee for that year. His reason for non-payment of the fee
was found in lack of funds, and he left with the permission
of the Faculty to pay the fee later and after such payment
to receive credit for his work during that semester. This
statement of the arrangement at that time was confirmed
by the records in the Registrar's office, although it had not
then been expected that the payment of this fee would be
delayed more than a year. On motion of Regent Beal, acceptance of the fee of $40, at this time, without interest,
was authorized by the Board in accordance with the original arrangement.
On motion of Regent Beal, the salary of Ned R. Smith
as Assistant in Charge of Food Analysis, Hygienic Laboratory, was indreased to $I,ooo for the University year
1917-I918. This increase made no increase in the total of
the budget.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board declined to authorize the purchase of a dictaphone for use in the Army
Stores work.




86


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917


On motion of Regent Hanchett, the following appoint —
ments made by the Secretary, in accordance with authority given upon the adoption of the budget, June 26, I9I7
(see page 803), were approved and confirmed by theBoard:
HOIMOEOPATHIC MEDICAL SCHOOL AND HOSPITAL
David B. Hagerman, Assistant, from July I, 1917, with
salary of $300, twelve months? basis.
Lewis W. Grice, Senior Student Assistant, board only.
Fred J. Cady, Interne, from October I, 1917, with salary of $Ioo and room and board, twelve months' basis.
John L. Boyd, Interne, Internal Medicine, from August
I, 1917, with salary of $Ioo and room and board, twelve
months' basis.
Clifford B. Mandeville, Assistant, with salary of $300,
from October I, 1917, twelve months' basis.
Philip E. Haynes, Assistant, from July I, 1917, with salary of $300, twelve months' basis.
Edward C. Stebbins, Interne, from August I, 1917, with
salary of $Ioo and room and board, twelve months' basis.
J. A. Wm. Johnson, Interne, from July I, 1917, with
salary of $Ioo and room and board, twelve months' basis.
Persis Goeschel, Assistant in Cataloging Department
of the University Library, vice Anna Klager, resigned, from
October 4, 1917, with salary at the rate of $550 per year,.
twelve months' basis.
Helen Bates, Assistant in History, with salary of $350.
H. J. Ryskamp, Assistant in History, with salary of
$350.
John C. Clark, Assistant in History, with salary of $350.
O. W. Stephenson, Assistant in History, with salary
of $500.
J. N. Landis, Assistant in Forestry, with salary of $Ioo.
J. E. Woodman, Assistant in Forestry, with salary of
$I00.
~W. M. Broberg, Assistant in Forestry, with salary of
$I00.
K. H. Case, Assistant in Forestry, with salary of $Ioo.Eder C. L. Matthews, Assistant to the Dean of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture, with salary of $200oo




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917                             87
Carl E. Gormsen, Assistant to the Assistant Dean of the
Colleges of Engineering and Architecture, with salary of
$200.
Helen Gillespie, Assistant to the Secretary of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture, with salary of $200.
DESCRIPTIVE GEOMETRY AND DRAWING
Andrew D. Althouse, Assistant........................$100
Karl Bintz, Assistant.................................  I00
George A. Clark, Assistant........................... Ioo
Rudolph Kruger, Assistant........................... I00
Raymond A. Munro, Assistant....................... Ioo
Harry T. Porter, Assistant........................... I00
SURVEYING
M. P. Adams, Assistant.............................. 100
W. C. Brockway, Assistant........................... I
E. F. Metz, Assistant................................ I10
H. F. Newcomer, Assistant.......................... IOO
Martin De Ruiter, Assistant......................... 100
ENGINEERING MECHANICS
Walter G. Brayer, Assistant.......................... 150
Donald C. McIntyre, Assistant........................  50
ENGINEERING SHOPS
Charles H. Graff, Assistant.......................... 200
Laurence Seyner, Assistant........................... 200
John AM. Schwarz, Assistant......................... 200
CIVIL ENGINEERING
W. D. Dinwiddie, Assistant.......................... I50
R. H. Eeley, Assistant for first semester (for semester)  75
L. W. Forbus, Assistant.............................. 150
J. R. Hill, Assistant................................. 150
M. A. McKenzie, Assistant........................... 150
F. J. Kortick, Assistant............................. I50
H. R. Scovil, Assistant............................... 150
W. B. Sickler, Assistant............................. 150
P. A. Vickers, Assistant.............................. I50
Russell A. Dodge, Teaching Assistant................. 6oo
Walter R. Drury, Teaching Assistant............... 600
Walter C. Russell, Teaching Assistant................ 600
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
B. E. Breckenridge, Assistant........................ 200
A. L. Clark,  Assistant............................... 200
C. H. Doherty, Assistant.............................  200




88             NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917
C. W. Good, Assistant............................... I00
J. D. Hibbard, Assistant............................. 200
F. E. Jagodzinski, Assistant......................... 200
William McKinley, Assistant......................... 200
E. C. Payne, Assistant........................ 200
P.  C.  Stephen,  Assistant.............................  200
L. Tattersall, Assistant.............................. 200
P. D. Taylor, Assistant.............................. 200
J. A. Meisenzahl, Teaching Assistant................. 6oo
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
S. E. Anderson, Assistant............................ 00o
H. W. Collins, Assistant.............................  I00
LaGrande Gaines, Assistant.......................... oo
B. K. Osborne, Assistant............................. Ioo
L. B. Snyder, Assistant.............................. 200
L. VW. Thorns, Assistant............................. I00
M'[ARINE EiNGINEERING
E.  M. M urphy, Assistant.............................$200
H. A. Seeger, Assistant.............................. I00
F.  G.  Healy,  Assistant...............................  I00
H. C. Roys, Assistant in Physics, vice James AM. Cork,
resigned, with salary of $300.
Wilber Brotherton, Jr., Assistant in Botany, with salary
of $400.
Ernest Reed, Assistant in Botany, with salary of $350.
Joseph Rubinger, Assistant in Botany, with salary of
$350.
Elba E. Watson, Assistant in Botany, with salary of
$300.
Lee Bonar, Assistant in Botany, with salary of $300.
Fred R. Clark, Assistant in Botany, with salary of $200.
MVary L. Steere, Assistant in Botany, with salary of
$200.
Mlrs. H. B. Cannon, Assistant in Cryptogamlic Herbarium, with salary of $200.
Mildred Mourer, Health Service Nurse, vice Elizabeth
Price, resigned, from October 4, I917, for nine months, with
salary of $8o per month.
Floyd P. Allen, Laboratory Assistant in the University
Health Service, vice Lester C. Todd; resigned, half time,
from October 8, 1917, with salary at the rate of $50 per
month.
Mrs. Catherine D. Wenley, Assistant in Philosophy,
with salary of $300.




NOVEMBER MEETING, I917


89


GENERAL AND PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY
Edgar C. Britton, Teaching Assistant.................$500
Joseph S. Richtig, Teaching Assistant................ 500
Wesley Mvinnis, Teaching Assistant................... 450
A. B. Hastings, Teaching Assistant................... 450
Frank D. Haskins, Teaching Assistant................ 400
W. G. France, Teaching Assistant................... 400
Roy K. Brier, Teaching Assistant..................... 400
Robert P. Russell, Teaching Assistant............. 400
E. E. Schumacher, Assistant......................... 200
Ralph  B. Fast, Assistant.............................  150
Harold E. Gladhill, Assistant......................... Ioo
Gordon C. Mack, Assistant.......................... I00
A. W. Schluchter, Assistant......................... Ioo
Eugene L. Jackson, Assistant...................... oo
Clifford C. Buchler, Assistant........................
William E. Kirchgessner, Assistant.....................
William J. McGill, Assistant.........................
Lee  M. Thurston,  Assistant.............................
ANALYTICAL CHEMISTRY
Dorothy Hall, Assistant in Quantitative Analysis.....  200
Ellwood Cake, Assistant in Quantitative Analysis...... 200
G. N. Gleysteen, Assistant in Quantitative Analysis..... 200
B. A. Soule, Assistant in Qualitative Analysis......... 200
A. K. Laukel, Assistant in Qualitative Analysis........ IOO
C. G. Fuss, Assistant in Qualitative Analysis........... Ioo
C. W. Clarke, Assistant in Qualitative Analysis........ Ioo
H. L. Crawford, Assistant in Qualitative Analysis..... IOO
G. K. Finzel, Assistant in Qualitative Analysis......... Ioo
L. A. DeMarsh, Assistant'in Qualitative Analysis...... I00
E. O. Scott, Assistant in Qualitative Analysis.......... IOO
ORGANIC CHEMISTRY
Fred W:. Sullivan, Teaching Assistant................ 400
Fritz H. Kranz, Laboratory Assistant................. 200
Warren W. Otis, Lecture Assistant................... 200
Fred C. Hahn, Research Assistant.....................  600
Everett G. Fahlman, Director's First Assistant, Chemical Laboratory, with salary of $300.
Wing   Chung   Kwong, Director's   Second  Assistant,
Chemical Laboratory, without salary.
N-Malcolm  H. Soule, half time Dispensing Assistant,
Chemical Laboratory, from October 3, I917, with salary of
$I1 per month.




90             NO EMBER MEETING, 1917
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
Clifford Bottje, Teaching Assistant...................$550
Roman F. Geller, Assistant.......................... I00
Alfred W. Laird, Assistant........................... 150
Adolph F. Wendler, Assistant........................ 200
Philip J. Wilson, Assistant.......................... I50
Kei T. Wong, Assistant.............................. I00
Frank P. Zimmerli, Assistant...................... 200
ENGINEERING MECHANICS
Faeke Beiboer, Assistant............................. 200
Marie K. Horning, Assistant in Geology, with salary of
$I50.
F. W. Frostic, Assistant in Geology, with salary of $500.
Herbert M. Bergen, Assistant in Geology, with salary of
$I50.
D. C. McLachlan, Assistant in Geology, with salary of.$250.
Robert B. Metcalf, Assistant in Physical Laboratory,
with salary of $200.
Lloyd I. Birckelbow, Assistant in Physical Laboratory,
with salary of $100.
Lillian R. Marsden, Clerk in the Office of the Registrar,
from October 15, 1917, with salary at the rate of $750 per
year, twelve months' basis.
W. H. Wilson, Assistant Gardener, from October I,
1917, with salary at the rate of $75 per month.
Hugh R. Moore, Assistant in Anatomy, for the balance
of the University year after October 5, 1917, with salary at
the rate of $350.
H. S. Liddell, Assistant in Psychology, with salary of:$300.
Margaret Wiley, Assistant in Psychology, with salary
of $200oo.
William E. Howes, part time Assistant in Physiology,
with salary of $300.
Catherine Acklen, part time Assistant in Physiology,:with salary of $300.
Henry R. O'Brien, part time Assistant in Physiology,
-with salary of $300.
Marland B. Small, Clerk at the Reading Room Desk,
General Library, vice Cecil A. Ross, from October 7, 1917,
with salary at the rate of $500oo per year, twelve months'
basis.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1917'


91


Ruby E. Thompson, Clerk in the Summer Session, vice
Louise Young, resigned, from October 29, 1917, with salary:at the rate of $700 per year, twelve months' basis.
Clarence N. Ferguson, Teaching Assistant in General
Chemistry, vice Frank D. Haskins, promoted, for the balance of the University year after November I, 1917, with
salary at the rate of $400 per year.
Frank D. Haskins, Teaching Assistant in General Chemistry, vice A. B. Hastings, resigned, for the balance of the
University year after November I, 1917, with salary at the
rate of $450 per year.
Clayton S. Emery, Interne at the Homceopathic Hospital, vice L. J. Boyd, from November I, 1917, with salary at
the rate of $Ioo, twelve months' basis.
E. Pricilla Butler, Assistant in Zoology, vice Kent Ruble, with salary of $200.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board approved the
transfer of $650 from the equipment fund of the Botanical
Garden to the salaries and wages account of the Garden
to meet the need for additional labor, as set forth in a comnmunication from Director H. A. Gleason.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote.
On motion, the Board adjourned to December 21, I917,:at 9:30 A. M.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH, Secretary.




DECEMBER MEETING
UNIVERSIT'Y oF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, DECEMBER 21, I9I7.
The Board met in the Regents' Room at 10:I5 A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
Sawyer, Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley, Regent Hanchett, and Regent Gore. Absent, Superintendent Keeler, who later took his seat.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the meeting of November I6 were approved as submitted to the
members in proof, with corrections on pages 59, 63, 68, 74,
77, So, 83, and 84.
Hon. Levi L. Barbour, of Detroit, Michigan, appeared
before the Board, and expressed his intention of increasing
the amount of the scholarship foundation established under
action of the Board at its meeting in June, I917, as set forth
in the printed minutes of said meeting, pages 784 and 785,
from $50,ooo.oo to $Ioo,ooo.oo, and desired to have the
action taken at that meeting modified so as to increase said
foundation accordingly, and also to modify the terms so as
to provide that in case properly qualified oriental girls did
not present themselves in sufficient numbers to use up the
income from said fund, such unexpended income should be
accumulated and used for the purpose of the foundation,
when and as available for the same. Mr. Barbour proposed
the following agreement to be signed by the President and
by himself:In consideration of Fifty Thousand Dollars to be paid
to the University of Michigan, in money obligations and
securities, the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan, hereby agrees with LEVI L. BARBOUR, of Detroit,
Michigan, that said Board will accept, hold, and collect said
securities, invest and keep invested the principal sum thereof in interest-bearing bonds, mortgages, or other interest
or income-bearing property or securities, to the best of its
ability, and use and employ the interest and income arising




94            DECEMBER MEETING, I9p7
therefrom in the care, support, maintenance, and schooling
in said University of girls or young women of and from
oriental countries (Japan, China, India, Russia, the Philippines, Turkey in Europe and Asia, or other Eastern country).
Said Board agrees, through its proper agent, or otherwise, to notify or publish to oriental governments, or their
educational authorities, the existence of such provision, or
the scholarships into which it may be divided, and invite
them to appoint persons of proper attainments to accept the
benefits of said scholarships, preferably in the study of public health, medicine, or in fitting for professional or professorial teaching.
And, WHEREAS, it was provided in connection with the
former contribution by the undersigned, LEVI L. BARBOUR, for the same purposes as the present one, that the
Board of Regents in case there should be no properly quali-.fied oriental girl applicants for such scholarships should appoint other girl students to receive the benefits of said scholarships, it is hereby agreed (in consideration of the present
contribution) on the part of the Board of Regents, that they
will not appoint other than oriental girls to receive the
benefits of said scholarships, formerly and hereby provided
for, but allow the income from  said gift funds (which
amount to one hundred thousand dollars) to accumulate
until such income shall be required for oriental scholarship
purposes.
A committee for the examination of applicants for the
scholarships shall consist of the President of the University, the Dean of the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, the Dean of Women, and the Dean of the Medical
School.  Such committee shall formulate such rules and
regulations regarding such applications as shall be deemed
proper. In case any applicant shall be found not fully prepared to enter upon the University courses required, such
committee may for a time render such assistance in the
way of loans as shall be deemed proper to furnish the required instruction therefor..................................................
In consideration of the above agreements on the part
of the Regents of the University of Michigan, and as a portion of said Fifty Thousand Dollars, I hereby assign and
set-over to the said Regents the land contracts hereto at



DECEMBER MEETING, 1917


95


tached, hereby authorizing and empowering said Regents to
collect the money due and to become due on said contracts,
and to enforce all and every other provision and agreement
therein contained, and to fulfill all the obligations herein
contained on me depending, and to use and employ the
money therefrom  arising for the purpose herein above
mentioned.............:......................................
On motion of Regent Bulkley, seconded by Regent Clements, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:VWH;RrAS, -Hon. Levi L. Barbour, of Detroit, Michigan,
a former member of this Board, has proposed to increase
the scholarship foundation for the education of oriental
girls, as heretofore created, by increasing his gift to said
foundation from the sum of $50,00o.00 to $Ioo.ooo.oo, and
has suggested certain modifications in the terms of the
same;
Now, therefore, it is Resolv:d, That the action of the
Board upon this subject taken at its special meeting in June,
I917, be amended so as to provide that the amount of said
foundation shall be the sum of $ioo,ooo.oo (instead of the
sum of $50,000.00), and that the provision in the resolution
of the Board creating said foundation; which provision is as
follows:"If, after reasonable exertion in the way of advertising, or personal notice, no properly qualified oriental
girl student or students should present themselves, being nominated either by their home government, or by
individuals of credit, or in their own behalf presenting
themselves, said Board shall appoint other girl students
to receive the benefits of said gift or endowment temporarily and until applicants therefor shall be presented
from oriental countries, as above set forth."
be amended and changed so as to read as follows: —
"If,after reasonable exertion by the Board of Regents in the way of advertising or personal notice, qualified oriental girl students should not present themselves
in sufficient numbers either through nomination by their
home government or by individuals of credit or by
presenting themselves in their own behalf,. to use entirely the income from the fund created for this purpose,
then such unexpended income shall be accumulated
until such time as it may properly be expended for the:
purpose of the foundation as herein stated."




96


DECEMIBER MEETING, I917


It is further Resolved That a supplemental agreement
be drawn embodying the changes in the foundation as herein set forth, in consideration of the increase in the amount
of same from $50o,o00.00 to $Ioo,ooo.oo, and that the proper
officers of the University be, and the same are hereby authorized to execute said supplemental agreement.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board directed that
the question of additional grounds as a site for the Betsy
Barbour House should be referred to a Committee composed of the President, Regent Beal, Regent Leland, and
the Secretary.
Superintendent Keeler took his seat.
Professor Reuben Peterson, Medical Director of the
University Hospital, appeared and made a statement with
respect to the present prospect of the establishment here by
the United States Government of a reconstruction hospital
(see pages Io and 6o). Professor Peterson presented a
report drafted by Professor H. E. Riggs. This report was
placed on file, and on motion of Regent Hanchett, was accepted and adopted by the Regents as their report to the
Surgeon General's Office of the War Department.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board declined to make
a change in the opening and closing dates of the University
year (see Proceedings of April, I9I7 meeting, page 744).
The matter of establishing in the University a course of
training in public health nursing, which has been on the
program since the meeting of June 22 (see page 8oi), was
informally dropped from further consideration.
The President presented a letter from Mr. S. Stanwood
Menken, President of the National Security League, urging the direct co-operation of the University in the work of
this organization. On motion of Regent Bulkley, this question was referred to the Executive Committee for consideration and report.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate School,
degrees were conferred as follows:MASTER OF SCIENCE
Philip Willard Shepard, B.S.(Ch.E.), Catholic University
of America




DECEMBER MEETING, 1917


97


MASTER OF ARTS
Bruno Meinecke, A.B., University of Tennessee
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the budget for the Summer Session of I98I was adopted in a total sum of $60,80o.67. The budget is printed in detail as Exhibit A of the
proceedings of this issue.     In adopting the budget the
Board also adopted the following new regulations relative
to class enrollment during the Summer Session:(i)  Each elementary and general course given shall be
elected by at least eight students.
(2)  Courses designed primarily for graduates, if given, shall be elected by at least five students.
(3) The Dean of Summer Session in consultation
with the administrative representative of the College or
School concerned shall have authority, as at present, to
sanction courses with a smaller number of students in especially urgent cases.
(4) In case any course is not elected by a sufficiently
large number of students to warrant the Dean of the Summer Session in sanctioning the same as a full course, the
instructor offering such course may at his option and with
the approval of the Dean either withdraw the course, or
give it and receive as compensation therefore 75% of the
fees paid by the students attending such course, provided
no instructor shall receive on this basis more than 75% of
the regular salary.
(5)  The above regulations shall not apply to the Biological Station or to the course in Embalming and Sanitary
Science.
(6) All instructors shall file in the office of the Summer Session at the close of the first week of the session
the names of all students registered in their courses.
Regent Hanchett was excused.
A  communication from     Professor Whitney calling attention to a decrease in the teaching staff of the Department
of Education in the face of an increase in the enrollment in
that Department, and requesting the appointment of a Professor of Educational Psychology and Experimental Education, on motion of Regent Beal, was referred to the
Executive Committee, with power.
Regent Beal was temporarily excused.




98


DECEMBER MEETING, 1917


On motion of Regent Clements, the Board adopted the
following resolutions (see page 69):WHERE^AS, There now exists on the so-called Volland
Street, Ann Arbor, Mich., at its western end an acute angle
in the street lines, and inasmuch as the abutting property
upon both sides of the said street is owned by the University, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Common Council of the City of
Ann Arbor be requested to straighten the western street
lines of Volland Street until they intersect Washtenaw Avenue, and to authorize such measures by Council action and
notices to property owners on this Street, as may be necessary. It is agreed on the part of the University of Michigan that the parcels of, property upon both sides of this
street which will be used in such straightening will be
deeded to the City of Ann Arbor for this purpose, such
parcels to be in exchange for parcels now occupied by the
street.
Regent Beal returned to the meeting.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board authorized the
payment out of the salaries account of the Law School of
an accumulated deficit upon the Michigan Law       Review,
amounting to $I,847.82 plus the interest on the notes to
the date upon which they should be taken up.      The vote
upon this action was: Aye, Regents Leland, Beal, Sawyer,
Clements, Bulkley, and Gore; No, Regent Hubbard.
The matter of experimentation with aluminum referred
to the Engineering Committee (see page 74), was dropped
as the investigation had been abandoned.
The following Committee report was read by the Secretary and, on motion of Regent Clements, was accepted and
adopted by the Board:To the Regents of the University of li'ichigan.
GENTLEMN:At a meeting of the Regents' Committee on Buildings
and Grounds and the Committee on the University Hospital, held in Ann Arbor, December 6, at which there were
present the President, Regent Clements, Regent Hanchett
and Regent Beal, the Committees considered the reference
to them by the Board at the meeting of November 21, of the
request for the erection of a special hospital unit of twenty



DECEMBER MEETING, 1917


99


five beds or thereabouts to take care of the overwhelming
demands upon the Department of Syphilology and Dermatology. In view of the facts presented, your Committees
felt constrained to adopt the following resolution:Resolved, That, in accordance with authority lodged
with us by the Board of Regents, we hereby authorize
the construction and equipment of a hospital unit for
the care of cases in Dermatology and Syphilology at an
expense of not to exceed $Io,oco for building and equipment,
And resolved further, That a committee consisting
of Regent Sawyer, Regent Clements, and Regent Beal,
any one or all of them, at the -earliest opportunity
should appear before the State War Board to enlist the
help of that Board, if possible, in providing the above
hospital unit and its equipment.
Respectfully submitted,
BENJ. S. HANCIHT'r
WAV. L. CLEMENTS
W. H. SAWYER
JUNIUS E. B^AI,
December 1I, 1917
On motion of Regent Leland, the traveling expenses of
Regent Bulkley were approved, amounting to $240.95 from
May 3, 1915, to November 20, I917, inclusive.
Regent Leland offered a motion providing that the Secretary should make copies of all by-laws adopted by the
Regents, and should provide a copy for each member of the
Board. The President called attention to the fact that this
matter has been for a long time with a committee which
has not as yet reported. No action was taken by the Regents, it being the understanding that the committee would
endeavor to make the report at an early date.
At this point the Board adjourned for lunch.
AFTERNOON SESSION
On reassembling at 2:IO P. M., there were present the
President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley, and Regent Gore. Absent, Regent. Hanchett and Superintendent
Keeler.




I0


DECEMBER MEETING, 1917


On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Board of Directors of the Athletic Association,
James G. Sharpe was elected student member of the Board
in Control of Athletics for the period from May 3, 1917 to
June I, I9I8, vice Lee E. Joslyn, resigned.
A communication from Mrs. Martin Farrell, of Baraga,
Michigan, regarding an injury to Mrs. Gustava Danielson
while the latter was a patient at the University Hospital,
was referred to the Medical Committee for attention.
A communication was received, under date of December
I4, from Mr. Grove J. Ray, Secretary of the Board of Education of Ann Arbor, requesting the continuance this year
of the dental clinic for public school children (see November meeting, I916, page 596), with the understanding that
Dr. Albert J. Schmutzler would take charge of the clinic
with compensation of $I25. On motion of Regent Sawyer,
the plan was approved and the sum of $I25 was added to the
budget accordingly. This amount with any other expenditures caused by the clinic is to be reimbursed to the University by the Board of Education.
On motion of Regent Iubbard, the salary of Felix W.
Pawlowski as Assistant Professor of Aeronautical Engineering was fixed at $2,000 for the University year I9I7 -1918.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the salary of Miss Bessie
Parsons as Assistant in Roentgenology was fixed at the rate
of $720 per year to date from January I, I918.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board referred to
Regent Beal and the Secretary, with power, a request for
the appointment of a stenographer in the out-patient clinic
of the Department of Internal Medicine.
On motion of'Regent Clements, the Board granted leave
of absence, without salary, until April I, I918, to Lieutenant L. R. Flook, Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds,
who entered the Army under date of December 8, I917.
On motion of Regent Clements, E. C. Pardon was appointed Acting Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds,
without increase in salary, to April I, I918.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board formally named
Professor Evans Holbrook as Secretary of the Law School,
vice Professor E. C. Goddard now Chairman of the Ad



DECEMBER MEETING, p917


IOI


ministrative Committee of the Law School. This change
in title dated from October i.
Professor Joseph E. Bursley appeared before the Board
and made a statement with respect to the Army Stores
Course, its aims, needs, and prospects.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Assistant Professor D.
M. Lichty was formally named to give instruction- in the
course in Chemistry specially provided for Dental students
lacking in certain requirements, and Professor Lichty's
compensation was fixed at $120, the amount of the special
fees paid by the students in this course.
Regent Bulkley, whose term of office would expire December 31, 19I7, expressed in a few words his regret at
severing his associations with other members of the Board.
The President and Regent Gore responded briefly.
The President presented a letter from Dr. Milton 'T.
Watson, of Detroit, with respect to the conditions under
which he might provide an endowment for furthering research work in orthodontia. On motion of Regent Clements, this matter was referred to Regent Sawyer and the
President, with power.
Reports of the Executive Committee were presented as
follows, and all were approved and adopted by the Board:To the Regents of the Unliversity of l'ichigan.
GIdNTcIcLMEN:N
At a meeting of your Executive Committee held December 6, 1917, upon the recomlendation of Professor
Arthur G. Canfield hereto attached, Mr. James E. Chenot
and Mr. William Fish Marsteller were appointed to instruct
the men in the Military Stores course for the second term
of six weeks at the rate of compensation fixed for the first
term, as follows: $50 to each instructor for the term. The
Committee asks that its action be confirmed by the full
Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JuNIUS E. B1^AI,
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
December 17, 1917




102


DECEMBER MEETING, 1917


To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GE,'NTLEvMEN:During the absence of the President, on November 19,
I917, the other two members of the Executive Committee
were consulted by Dean Hinsdale of the Homceopathic
Medical School, through the Secretary.
Dean Hinsdale requested that the title of Dr. Clifford
B. Mandeville, should be changed, to suit the facts, to read
"Interne in the Homoeopathic Hospital and Assistant in
Ophthalmology, Oto-laryngology, Rhinology, in the Homceopathic Medical School."  As this change in title more
truly represented Dr. Mandeville's duties, and involved no
change in the budget, the Committee granted the request and
changed Dr. Mandeville's title accordingly.
President Hutchins has since concurred in the action
of his colleagues upon the Committee.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
November 26, 1917
To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEN:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held November 9, 1917, voted that Dr. Reuben Peterson, Director of
the University Hospital, might use $Soo from the hospital
funds for the purchase of clothing for nurses to take the
place of clothing belonging to them that was destroyed in
a recent fire in one of the nurses' homes. Provision of this
kind was absolutely necessary as the young women lost
practically everything and were not in financial condition
to replace their clothing. It was understood that Director
Peterson would at an early date furnish an itemized statement of the purchases together with a statement of any
further provisions that should be made for said nurses.
Your Committee requests that its action be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
November 13, 1917




DECEMBER MEETING, 1917


Io3


To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEN:At a meeting of your Executive Committee held December 6, I917, the case of Assistant Professor Henri T.
A. deL. Hus, who has been absent on leave for over two
years, was up for consideration. It was represented to your
Committee by the Head of the Botanical Department that
on account of the falling-off in attendance, Assistant Professor Hus's services would not be needed in the future.
His leave of absence was for three years and would terminate at the end of the present University year. In view
of the recommendation to which reference is made, your
Committee directed the Dean of the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts to notify Assistant Professor Hus
that his services in the future would not be needed. The
Committee asks that its action be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAI,
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
December 17, 1917
The following report was read by the Secretary and,
on motion of Regent Sawyer, the various actions of the
Committee were approved and adopted by the Regents with
the understanding that the matters upon which the Committee did not act but which it had referred to the full
Board should be considered by the Board at the January
meeting:To the Honorable Board of Regents.
GLENTLEMEN:A meeting of the Health Service Committee was held
in Ann Arbor, December 6, I917. Present, the President
and Regent Hanchett. Regent Sawyer was unavoidably detained. In his absence Regent Clements and Regent Beal
sat with the Committee in conference and concurred in the
actions of the Committee as follows.
A communication was received from   Dr. Warren E.
Forsythe, Executive Head of the University Health Service,
in which the following requests were made. Actions were




104          DECEMBER MEETING, 1917
taken in accordance with the statements immediately foilowing 'each of the nine requests.
I. For an early change in the arrangement of the
Health Service building, estimated to cost $2Io. The change
will give much needed additional room for examinations and
private consultation as well as provide for less confusion
and other desired features.
The Committee approved this request and allowed $2Io
out of Health Service income for the purpose.
2. For an annual allowance of $6oo to provide an automobile for my use in conducting the Health Service work.
This matter was referred to the Regents without recommendation.
3. For permission to care for students at equal Health
Service expense in other hospitals than those of the University when, in my judgment, it is advisable. Such an arrangement would often provide better satisfaction to the
student and relatives.
Your Committee approved the care at St. Joseph's
Hospital of certain patients who had already been sent there
by Dr. Forsythe owing to contagion at the University Hospital, and directed that the hospital bills of such patients
should be paid out of the Health Service funds within an
amount and for such purposes as would have been provided
for regularly out of Health Service funds at either of the
University Hospitals. Your Committee further authorized
similar arrangement in the future when in the judgment of
the head of the Health Service it was advisable.
4. For the creation of a new position on the Health
Service staff to be designated as that of Domestic Sanitarian. I would select for the place Miss Sue Hamilton, who
would assist in and be assigned to what our organization
can develop in the supervision of student boarding and
rooming houses, restaurants, ice-cream parlors, etc. Miss
Hamilton will devote one-half time until July I, at $40 per
month.
This request was referred to the full Board without
recommendation.
5. For the approval of the change of title from Executive Head of the Health Service to Director of the
Health Service. The designation of Dr. Walker as Associate Physician, and the other staff physicians as assistant
physicians in order designated by the Director.




DECEiMBER MEETING, 1917


io5


Action had already been taken by the Regents designating Dr. Forsythe as Director of the Health Service. The
Committee approved the designation of Dr. Walker as Associate Physician and referred the designation of the staff
physicians to the full Board for action.
6. For the adoption of two years as the regular appointment time of assistant physicians on the Health Serv-.
ice staff.
This request was referred to the full Board without
recommendation.
7. For instruction concerning the following:a. Emergency care of University employees.
b. Reports wanted.
c. Payment of expenses resulting from injury of
students when on inspection trips under the
auspices of the University.
Your Committee directed that while it was expected
University employees who had been injured would ordinarily be taken care of at one of the hospitals and by the
hospital physicians, in cases of any emergency where prompt
attention was necessary or desirable and where the Health
Service physicians were in a position to render such attention, they should attend. Your Committee recommended
that monthly reports be made to the Regents. Your Committee voted that payment of expenses resulting from injury
to students when on inspection trips under the auspices of
the University should not be made by the University but
should be a matter for the student's own expense.
8. For the medical examination of all new students entering the University each year, such examination to be
directed by the Health Service.
Your Committee voted its approval of the medical examination of all new students entering the University each
year, such examination to be under the auspices of the
Health Service, this approval being conditioned upon its
being possible to carry out the plan without entailing any
additional expense to the University beyond that now
borne.
9. For the compulsory attendance of all new students
upon a course of instruction in personal health, consisting
of six one-hour lectures and demonstrations, the lectures to
be conducted by the Health Service.




Io6


DECEMBER MEETING, 1917


Your Committee refers this matter to the full Board
with the statement that the Committee approves the principle of providing such instruction.
All of the above is respectfully submitted.
Committee:
WAI,rER H. SAWYER
BENJ. S. HANCHEITT
JUNIJS E. BEAI,
Ann Arbor, December 18, I917 W. L. CLE;MNTS
A formal invitation was received from the President of
the University of California and from the Governor of the
State of California asking that the University of Michigan
should send a delegate to the Semi-Centennial Celebration
of the University of California to be held at Berkeley,
March I8 to 23, I918. On motion of Regent Gore, the
President was requested to accept the invitation for the University of Michigan, and to attend as this University's
delegate, with authority to designate a substitute should he
find it impossible to attend personally.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, the degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred
upon Walter Albert Niemann.
In accordance with a recommendation by Regent Hubbard and Regent Leland, the Committee on the Colleges of
Engineering and Architecture, the Board authorized the
expenditure from the Engineering equipment fund of
$522.60 to adapt the south side of the old boiler house upon
the Campus to use as a Chemical Engineering Laboratory
in the processes of evaporation, in general accordance with
the agreement earlier made with the Swenson Evaporator
Company, of Chicago, (see page 836, meeting of July,
1917).  The Board further authorized the building of
foundations for machinery to be installed, the expense of
these foundations to be reimbursed to the University by the
Swenson Evaporator Company.
On motion of Regent Beal, following recommendation
by a committee consisting of Professors Henry A. Sanders
and Campbell Bonner, Miss Elinor Mullett and Miss Anna
M. Crow were appointed to Phillips Scholarships with
stipends of $50 each.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1917                  I07
A request was received from the American Association
of University Professors for a copy of the record in the
case of former Assistant Professor Carl E. Eggert. On
motion of Regent Sawyer, this request was laid upon the
table.
Professor R. D. T. Hollister communicated to the Regents the fact that Mr. James Couzens, of Detroit, had
tendered the sum of $300 for use as testimonials to the six
debaters representing the University in the Central Debating League in I917-I918. On motion of Regent Gore, the
Board expressed its thanks to Mr. Couzens for this cooperation with the work of the Department of Oratory.
On motion of Regent Sawyer,- the Board empowered the
President to approve, within a total sum not in excess of
$200, the traveling expense vouchers of members of the
Faculty who go without compensation to give instruction
in French to officers and men at Camp Custer.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board granted the
request of Paul H. DeKruif, Assistant Professor of Bacteriology, for leave of absence, without salary, from January I, i918, during the continuance of the war. This leave
is granted to enable Dr. DeKruif to enter the Medical
Corps of the United States Army.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Colleges of Engineering
and Architecture, degrees were conferred as follows:BACHIELOR 01 SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
(Civil Engineering)
Firmin Joseph Bishop
Haig Meheran Domboorajian
Andrew Averne Gerry
Clarence Allan Maurer
Clarence James Quail
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
(Mechanical Engineering)
Malcolm David Corbin
BACHELOR 017 SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
(Chemical Engineering)
Charles Adelbert Breitung
Gilbert Bradley Wells




Io8


DEC2EMBER VIEE TING, 1917


In accordance with the recommendation of the Executive Committee the sum of $200 was added to the salary
budget of the Department of Electrical Engineering to provide for the training of radio and buzzer operators for the
United States Signal Corps, in accordance with a communication from Professor John C. Parker, and in compliance
with the request of the Federal Board for Vocational Education.
Leaves of absence, without salary, were granted to John
M. Nickelsen, of the Department of Descriptive Geometry
and Drawing, and Harold A. Hicks, of the Department of
Mechanical Engineering, in order that they might enter
respectively the Sanitary Corps and the Signal Corps of the
United States Army. These leaves are effective with the
close of the University exercises preceding the present holiday recess.
On motion of Regent Leland, $2,500 was provided for
the salary account of the Army Stores course and $I,500 for
the current expense account of that course. It was understood that out of the $1,500 thus provided a dictaphone outfit
should be purchased at the option of Professor Bursley.
The President reported the status of funds for the
American University Union in France, and for the University of Michigan Bureau of that Union. He stated that
ovei $6,ooo had already been contributed for the University
of Michigan Bureau and that $5,ooo had been raised in this
part of the country for the work of the Union as a whole,
including $i,ooo raised in Detroit by Regent Bulkley.
The Board voted that the sum of $400 referred to on
page 17 of the October meeting as required to complete the
salary allowance of Professor C. B. Vibbert's substitute in
the Department'of Philosophy should be assumed by the
University, and should not be deducted from the funds provided for the Union. This action was taken upon motion
of Regent Hubbard.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board voted that when
adjournment should be taken, it should be to January 17,
I918.
Regent Gore was excused.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board requested the
Budget Committee to confer with a committee of the Deans




DECEMBER MEETING, 1917


I09


with respect to a plan to be followed in making up the
budget for I918-I9I9, and to adapt such budget to the
emergency conditions created by the war.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, and in accordance with a
recommendation signed by all the Deans, the Director of
the Chemical Laboratory, and the Professor of Military
Science, the Board voted to establish Eastern Standard
time as the official time of the University from  and after
January I, I918. ''he Board further directed that beginning with that date the schedule of hours as published in
the printed bulletin should be effective until the end of the
present University year, and further that the time from
4:I5 P. M. to 5:45 P. lM. should be reserved for students
electing military training.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following appointments made by the Secretary to positions for which compensation had been provided in the budget were approved
and confirmed:I,aurence C. Stephenson, Student Assistant in the office of
the Assistant Dean of the Colleges of Engineering and
Architecture, vice C. E. Gormsen, resigned, for the
balance of the University year after November I, 19I7,
with salary at the rate of $2co per year.
Sherwald Wi. Sedgwick, Messenger in the office of the Dean
of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
vice VT.. WL.  atts, resigned, for the balance of the University year after November 9, I917, with salary at the
rate of $250 per year.
Gordon H. Buckner, Assistant in Architecture, for the balance of the University year from November I, 1917,
with salary at the rate of $200 per year.
Mrs. Leah J. Whitton, Stenographer and Clerk in the office
of the Appointment Committee, vice Bertha L. Beck,
resigned, from November 19, 1917, with salary at the
rate of $700 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Mrs. Dorothy Hanchett, Custodian in the Zoological Laboratory, vice Minerva L. Bowen, resigned, from November 26, I9I7, with salary at the rate of $700 per year,
twelve-months' basis.
Raymond A. Munro, transferred from the position of Student Assistant in Drawing to the position of Student
Assistant in Electrical Engineering, vice Lansing,T.




nIo           DECEMBER MEETING, 19I7
Thorns, resigned, for the balance of the University
year from November i6, 1917, with salary at the rate
of $Ioo per year.
Millis V. Parshall, Student Assistant in the Department of
Drawing, vice Raymond A. Munro, transferred, for the
balance of the University year from November I6, 1917,
with salary at the rate of $Ico per year.
Loetta Roehm, Stenographer in the Department of Otolaryngology, vice Fern Allmand, resigned, from November 10, 1917, with salary at the rate of $6oo per year,
twelve-months' basis.
Orris Bonney, Student Assistant in Surveying, vice M. P.
Adams, resigned, for the balance of the University year
after December I, I917, with salary at the rate of $Ioo
per year.
Welland Gay, Student Assistant in Surveying, vice W. C.
Brockway, resigned, for the balance of the University
year after December I, 1917, with salary at the rate of
$Ioo per year.
Cyril B. Starring, Student Assistant in Civil Engineering,
vice Ward B. Sickler, resigned, for the balance of the
University year after December I, I917, with salary at
the rate of $I50 per year.
Hubert John, Assistant Physician in the Health Service,
vice Dr. Charles P. Drury, resigned, from November
I, 1917, with salary at the rate of $1,500 per year.
Jessie B. Hurd, transferred from the position of Stenographer in the Law School to the position of Stenographer in the University Extension Service, vice Mrs.
Julia A. L. Glover, resigned, from December 3, I917,
with salary at the rate of $900 per year, twelve-months'
basis. It is understood that Miss Hurd will give from
one to two hours per day to the work in the Law
School.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board referred, with
power, to a committee consisting of Regent Beal and Miss
Alice Evans, Director of the Barbour Gymnasium, the request of Genevieve E. O'Leary for permission to take gymnasium work without regularly enrolling in the University.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board approved a
leave of absence, with salary, to Professor William        I.
Hobbs from the beginning of the present holiday recess to
a date expected to be about the close of the first semester,




DECEMBER MEETING, 1917


II I


in order to enable Professor I-obbs to take up certain research work for the government. It was understood that
Professor Hobbs's colleagues would care for his University
work in his absence without extra expense to the University.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts degrees and teachers' diplomas were voted as
follows:BACHELOR OB ARTS
Harold Ferguson Allman     Gladys Lynch
Simon Peyton Baker        Helen Bond Laufman Morgan
Alice Maude Corns          Jean Vincent Stewart
Lawrence (Dominic)        Lela Marie Wright
Denny Larke
BACHELOR OS SCIENCE
Clifford Wayne Brainard
TEACHERS' DIPLOMAS
Harold Ferguson Allman       Gladys Lynch
Alice Maude Corns            Willard Barnhart Scott
William Arthur Gonter        Edward Lewis Shepard
Helen Bond Laufman Morgan    Lela Marie Wright
Paul Benjamin Line           Henriette Wurster
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board employed Professor C. M. Elliott of the Michigan State Normal College,
to instruct two classes, formerly in charge of Associate
Professor C. S. Berry, now on leave, from December I to
the end of the present semester. For this work Professor
Elliott is to have compensation of $267.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Law School, the degree of
Bachelor of Laws was conferred upon Herbert Will Lamb,
E.M., Lehigh University.
On motion of Regent Clements, the salary of Mr. William C. Hollands, Superintendent of the Bindery and the
Printing Plant, was fixed at $I,800 for the year beginning
July I, 1917.
The following communication was filed by the Secretary:



112


DECEMBER MEETING, 1917


To the Honorable Board of Regents.
GENTXTLEMEN:I have to inform you that during the night of November 8 a fire occurred in the upper portion of the house at
Ioo8 Cornwell Place rented by the Regents for use as a
home for nurses. The loss to University property, aggregating $322.00 was fully covered by insurance which has
been adjusted and paid. The individual nurses suffered
personal losses aggregating $930.67. The Executive Committee of the Board, in accordance with a report which will
be presented at the meeting, authorized an expenditure of
$rco for meeting the immediate needs of certain nurses in
the way of clothing, particularly of shoes. I trust that I
may receive and be able to place before the meeting of December 21 an inventory of the total losses of individual
nurses in this fire.
A request for reimbursement to the nurses will, I understand, be made. If it is to be the policy of the Regents
to reimburse nurses for loss in case of fire, it seems to me
that such contingencies should be insured. Mr. Sutton, of
the Policyholders' Service and Adjustment Company, tells
me that if the Regents *desire to insure personal effects of
150 nurses at, say, $Ioo each, the $r5,ooo of fire insurance
thus involved could be carried at a rate of $.44 or $66 per
year. I secured this quotation from Mr. Sutton since I have
been informed that the necessity for such insurance would
be urged at the December meeting.
Respectfully submitted,
SHIRIVY W. SAIITH
December Io, I917
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board approved the
settlement of the loss at the figure of $322.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Secretary was requested to learn whether a plan could be devised under
which individual owners of property upon the Campus could
insure their property at their own expense, by reimbursing
the University under a general blanket policy, or otherwise.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Dental Surgery,
degrees were conferred as follows:



DECEMBER MEETING, 1917


I I3


DOCTOR OF DENTAI SURGERY
Theodore van Reenen Engels  Elmore Jacob Hoek
Benjamin Joseph Eslick     William Milton Howard
Ward Goodwin Gordon        Chester John Robertson
Arthur Earl Hammond        Edison Easterday Rogers
John Gilbert Hapeman       Morris Schiff
No action was taken at this time upon a further communication from the Faculty of the College of Dental Surgery with respect to the management of the Dental College
Library.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Medical School, nurses' diplomas were voted as follows:Nancy Adeline Fry          Irene Grace Watrous
Emma Seitz                 Mathilda R.- Reinhardt
Marvlena E. Walkling       Jean L. C. McGregor
Garnet Beatrice Roper      Alice Jeannette Christman
Emma M. Spiegel            Hazel M. Maggs
NURSES' EX.iCU'TIVE COURSE DIPLOMA
Mary 'Ware
A recommendation from   the Faculty of the Medical
School for affiliation between the Medical School and the
Municipal University of Akron, could not be taken up at
this meeting but was deferred for consideration to the
meeting of January I7, next.
Dean Cooley reported the gift to the Department of
Civil Engineering of a bound volume of plans and specifications of viaducts and approaches over the tracks of the
Oregon-Washington Railway and Navigation Company, in
Sullivan Gulch, Portland, Oregon. On motion of Regent
Hubbard, the President was requested to communicate the
thanks of the Board to Mr. O. Laurgaard, City Engineer
of Portland, Oregon, through whom the gift came.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote except
where otherwise expressly stated.
The Board adjourned to meet January 17, 1918, at
9:30 A. M.
SHIRLIY W. SMITH,
Secretary.




APPENDIX TO REGENTS' PROCEEDINGS OF DECEMBER 21, I9I7


Budget for the Summer
Session of 1918
As APPROVED DECEMBER 21. [SEE PAGE 97.]


Increase
I918        1917    or Decrease


College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts.............................. $30,845.0oo
Colleges of Engineering and Architecture  Io,256.672
Medical School........................    3,525.00
Law  School............................   3,375.00
College of Pharmacy...................     740.00
Biological Station.....................   3,375.00
Library  M ethods......................  1,640.00
Embalming and Sanitary Science........      830.00
Military Courses.......................   I,700.oo00
Administration.........................   1,525.00
General Expense.......................    2,990.00


$36,941.69 -$
I0,88o.oi -
5,900.00 -
6,oco.oo -
8oo.oo -
4,571.50 -
1,215.00 +
830.00........
1,525.00
3,I40.00 -


6,096.69
623.34
2,375.00
2,625.00
6o.oo
I,I96.50
425.00
1,700.00
I50.00


$60,8oi.67 $7I,803.204 -$11,001.53
'$250.00 to be provided for from the Smith-Hughes Fund.
2Includes an item of $I,ooo.oo heretofore provided for in budget for Academic Session.
"Not provided for in the budget for I917.
4Appropriated December 22, 1916.


COLLTGE O' LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Hrs. 1918                 I917


Decrease


GreekProfessor C. Bonner......... 64 $500.00     $500.00    $70000.   -$ 200.00
LatinProfessor H. A. Sanders.... 64 $500.00
Professor C. L. Meader...... 64    500.00
Assoc. Prof. A. R. Crittenden 64 400.00
Assistant 0. F. Butler.......      I00.00
$ 1,500.00  $ 1,700.00  -$ 200.00




DECEMBER MEETING, 1917                                  15
Hrs.   1918                 1917      Decrease
SemiticsProfessor L. Waterman...... 48 $375.00       $375.00     $500.00  -$ I25.00
Romance LanguagesProfessor -    -....... 64  500.00
Professor -----....... 64  500.00
Professor --....... 64  500.00
Instructor....... 96  300.00
Instructor....... 96  300.00
Instructor ---....... 64  200.00
2,300.00    2,600.00  -   300.00
GermanProfessor Max Winkler..... 64       500.00
Professor E. Boucke......... 64     500.00
Professor T. Diekhoff....... 64     500.00
Assoc. Prof. J. A. C. Hildner 64    400.00
Asst. Prof. J. W. Scholl..... 32    I33.33
2,033.33    2,633.34  -    6oo.oi
EnglishProfessor I. N. Demmon.... 32       250.00
Professor L. A. Strauss...... 64    500.00
Assoc. Prof. M. P. Tilley.... 64    400.00
Asst. Prof. W. R. Humphreys 96      4c0.00
Asst. Prof. S. F. Gingerich... 96   400.00
Instructor W. 0. Raymond... 64      200.00
2,150.00    2,600.00  -    450.00
RhetoricProfessor T. E. Rankin..... 64      500.00
Asst. Prof. J. R. Brumm....96      400.00
Instructor H. S. Mallory....96     300.00
Assistant     -........      50.00
I,250.00,683.33  -   433.33
OratoryAsst. Prof. R. D. T. Hollister 96 400.00
Instructor R. K. Immel...... 96     300.c0
Assistant -----........      50.00
750.00   ',I00.00  -    350.00




DECEMBER MEETING, 1917


Increase
or
1917      Decrease


Fine Arts-                     Hrs.
Professor H. R. Cross....... 64
Assistant ---—...
Lecture Assistant.........
HistoryProfessor E. R. Turner..:... 64
Professor E. W. Dow....... 32
Professor....... 64
Professor.......64


19r8
500.00
50.00
20.00


57o.oo00      570.00


500.00
250.00
500.0c
500.00


Political Economy and SociologyProfessor I. L. Sharfman.... 64    500.00
Asst. Prof. Wi. A. Paton..... 64    400.00
Instructor A. E. Wood....... 96     300.00
Instructor W. P. Calhoun.... 96   300.00
Instructor W. S. Krebs...... 96    300.00
Political ScienceProfessor --    --....... 64  500.00
Instructor....... 64  200.00


1,750.00   2,000.01  -   250.01
I,S00.00   2,200.00 -    400.00


70.00o      900.00  -     200.00


PhilosophyProfessor R. M. Wenley..... 64
Professor  IT. B. Pillsbury... 32
Asst. Prof. R. W. Sellars.... 64
Asst. Prof. D. H. Parker.... 32
Instructor H. F. Adams...... 64
Education —
Professor A. S. Whitney..... 64
Professor G. E. Myers...... 64
Professor ---....... 64
Assoc. Prof. C. 0. Davis..... 64
Asst. Prof. G. L. Jackson.... 96


500.co
250.CO
266.67
133.33
200.00
1,350.00
500.00
5oo.co*
500.00
400.00
400.00


1,720.00  -    370.00
I,833.34  +    466.66


2,300.00
* $250.00 to be paid out of the Smith-Hughes Fund.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1917                                I 7
Hrs. 1918                  1917      Decrease
MathematicsProfessor W. W. Beman.... 64       500..00
Professor W. B    Ford....... 64   500.00
Assoc. Prof. L. C. Karpinski 64    400.00
Asst. Prof. J. W. Bradshaw.. 96    400.00
Instructor C. J. Coe......... 64   200.00
Instructor H. C. Carver...... 64  200.00
2,200.00   2,600.00  -    400.00
AstronomyProfessor W. J. Hussey..... 32     250.00
Assoc. Prof. R. H. Curtiss... 32   200.00
Assistant ---........      50.00
Visitors' Nights......0....        I.00
510.00     560.00 -      50.00
PhysicsProfessor H. M. Randall.... 64     500.00
Assoc. Prof. A. W. Smith... 64     400.00
Assoc. Prof. W. D. Henderson 64    400.00
Asst. Prof. N. H. Williams.. 96    400.00
Asst. Prof. D. I,. Rich.......96 400.00
Instructor W. W. Sleator.... 64    200.00
Instructor G. L. Lindsay.....  32  I00.00
Instructor C. V. Kent....... 32    I00.00
2,500.00   3,10.00.  -    6oo.oo
ChemistryAssoc. Prof. D. M. Lichty... 64    400.00
Assoc. Prof. W. G. Smeaton.. 32    200.00
Asst. Prof. H. H. Willard... 96    400.00
Asst. Prof. F. E. Bartell..... 96  400.00
Instructor A. L. Ferguson... 96    300.00
Instructor C. S. Schoepfle... 96   300.00
Instructor --      -....... 96  300.00
Teaching Assistant.......          50.00
7 Assistants at $40.00 each...     280.00


2,730.00   3,526.67 -    796.67




xI8                 DECEMBER MEETING, 1917
Hrs. 1918                  1917      Decrease
MineralogyProfessor E. H. Kraus....     32  250.00
Asst. Prof. NW. F. Hunt...... 64   266.67
Assistant ---    --........      50.00
566.67     750.00  -    183.33
GeologyInstructor....... 96  300.00
Assistant ---   --.......      50.00
Excursion Fund............         50.00
400.00     550.00 -     15o.oo
ZoologyInstructor P. Okkelbcrg..... 96   300.00
Instructor G. E. Johnson.... 96    300.co
Assistants..................     100.00
700.00     700.00
BotanyAsso. Prof. J. B. Pollock.... 64   400.00
Instructor W. W. lTupper... 96     300.00
Assistants..................     150.00
Excursion Fund............         I0.00
860.oo    1,365.oo  -   505.00
Landscape DesignAssoc. Prof. A. Tealdi....... 64   400.00    400.00     400.00
Physical TrainingDirector G. A. May......... 64     400.00
Instructor       -....... 64  200.00
Assistant -........                 50.00
650.00     65o.oo
Total............................. $30,845.00  $36,941.69  - $6,096.69
COLLEGES 0  ELNGINEERING AND ARCHITErCTURE
Hrs. I918                  1917      Decrease
EnglishAsst. Prof. O. C. Marckwardt 64 $266.67     $266.67    $400.00    $  I33.33
GermanProfessor A. O. Lee......... 96    400.00    400.00     766.67 -     366.67




DECEMBER MEETING, 1917                               II9
Increase
or
Hrs. 1918                  1917      Decrease
FrenchAsst. Prof. H. A. Kenyon.... 64    266.67
Instructor A. F. Hurlburt.... 96   300.00
566.67     500.00  +     66.67
MathematicsInstructor L. J. Rouse....... 96   300.co
Instructor A. L. Nelson..... 80   250.00
Instructor E. S. Allen....... 80   250.00
800.00     800.00
Drawing —
Assistant Professor ---         96  400.00
Instructor W. L. Bennett.... 80    250.00
650.oo0,000.00  -    350.00
Shop Work ---
Acting Supt. W. H. Yeatman          40.00
Instructor --      -.......     250.00
Instructor.......     250.00'
Instructor   -----.......     250.00*
Instructor  ---.....       250.00
I,04o.oo  40.   00  +,000ooo.oo
SurveyingProfessor C. T. Johnston,
Custodian of the Bogardus
Tract and Director of the
Davis Engineering Camp..         550.00
Assistant Professor ---         96  400.00
Assistant.................     I150.00
1,100.00   1,100.00
Engineering MechanicsAssistant Prof. ---.. 96  4co.oo
Instructor....... 96  300.00
700.00     900.00 -     200.00
Civil EngineeringAssistant Prof. -        -.. 48  2co.o     200.00     300.00  -    Io00o.
Formerly provided for in budget for Academic Session.




120


DECEMBER MEETING, I917


Increase
or
1917      Decrease


Hrs. I918


Mechanical EngineeringProfessor S. J. Zowski....... 96
Assoc. Prof. R. S. Hawley... 96
Assoc. Prof. J. E. Emswiler.. 64
Assistant Prof... 80
Electrical EngineeringProfessor      -........ 64
Assistant Prof. -   -.. 96
Instructor      --....... 96
Instructor....... 96


500.00
400.00
400.00
333.33


I,633-33   I,833-34  -    200.01


5co.oo
400.00
300.00
300.00


Chemical EngineeringAssistant Prof...
Instructor.......
Assistant........


1,500.00   1,500.00
96 400.o0
96 300.00
ICO.00
800.00   1,340.00 -    540.00


ArchitectureProfessor J. J. Rousseau....
Instructor.......


64 500.00
32 I00.00


6oo.oo
T otal..............................$$I,256.67


400.00
$io,88o.or


-    200.00
-$ 623.34


MEDICAL SCHOOL


Hrs. 1918
AnatomyInstructor      -....... 90 $225.0
Instructor     --  -....... 90  225.00
Assistant...................       100.00
Assistant.................            00.00
3


Increase
or
1917      Decrease
65o.oo    $650.00
225.00     225.C0


HistologyInstructor    -....... 90   225.00




DECEMIBER MEETING, 1917


121


Hrs. 1918
BacteriologyInstructor....... 90 225.00
Assistant...............0...     100.00


Increase
or
1917      Decrease
325.00      225.00  +    I00.00


Physiological ChemistryInstructor......
PhysiologyInstructor O. M. Cope.......
Assistant...................


90 225.00    225.00    225.00
90 225.00
50.00
275.00    275.00


PathologyProfessor A. S. Warthin.....
Asst. Prof. C. V. Weller.....


60 375.00
90 300.00


675.00    675.00


PharmacologyInstructor ---....... 90   300.00
Assistant ----.........    100.00


40o.oo


325.00  +      75.0o


MedicineAsst. Prof. L. H. Newburgh.
Instructor Q. O. Gilbert......


90 300.00
90 225.00


525.00    525.00


Gynecology and ObstetricsInstructor --....... 9o 225.00
Clinical Courses in Surgery,
Nervous Diseases, Ophthalmology, Otolaryngology, Dermatology  and  Syphilology,
and Vaccines and Serum
Therapy will not be given


225.00


675.oo   -     450.00


$2,550.00  - $2,550.00


Total.............................. 3,525.oo   $5,900.00   -   $2,375.00




122                 DECEMBER MEETING, 19r7
LAW SCHOOL
1918                 1917      Decrease
Professor E. R. Sunderland, Contracts and Code Pleading.......$ 625.00
Professor V. H. Lane, Evidence..      5oo00.
Professor E. C. Goddard, Wills..      500.00
Professor J. R. Rood, Judgments
and Property IV...............      750.00
Professor Evans Holbrook, Torts       500.00
Professor E. N. Durfee, Mortgages and Quasi-Contracts......     500.00
Total....................$..........3,375.00     $6,ooo.oo  -$2,625.00
COLLEGEI Or PHARMACY
Professor ---...............$500.00
Instructor     -     -............. 200.00
Assistant  ---..............   40.00
Total...........................$..740.00           $8oo.oo       $60.oo
BIOLOGICAL STATION
Asst. Prof. J. R. LaRue (Director) $475.00
Assistant Professor ---      -.... 400.00
Assistant Professor F. C. Gates.... 400.00
Instructor J. H. Ehlers............. 300.03
Instructor -............. 200.00
Assistants.......................... I00o.
Custodian.......................... I0oo
Dean of Women..................       50.00
Equipment........................ 325.00
Repairs and Current Expense...... 850.oo
Travelling Expenses.............. I75.00
Total..............................  $3,375.00   $4,571.50   - $I,I96.50
1,BRARY METHODS
1918                 1917      Increase
Director W. W. Bishop........... $5oo.oo
Instructor F. L. D. Goodrich....... 50.00
Instructor F. B. Gillette............ 50.03
Instructor E. A. Smith............ 150.00
Instructor W\. C. Hollands......... 150.00
Inst'r High School Library Work.. 225.00




DECEMBER MEETING, 1917                               123
1918                1917      Increase
Two Junior Instructors for Classifying and Cataloging............ 150.00
Lecturer on Children's Work...... 90.0
Lecturer S. H. Ranck............... 25.00
Lecturer A. S. Root................ 25.00
Supplies............:.............  25.00
Total.............................. $I,64o.oo   $I,215.00  + $ 425.00
EMBALMING AND SANITARY SCIENCE
Professor A. S. Warthin (Autopsy
Technique).....................$oo.oo
Professor J. R. Rood (Mortuary
and Probate Law)............... 50.00
Associate Prof. W. J. Hale (Chemistry)....................  200.00
Instructor L. A. Ioag (Anatomy).... 150.00
Instructor in Bacteriology.......... I50.00
Instructor C. G. Askin (Embalming) I50.00
Assistant in Chemistry.............  20.00
Supplies..........................  I.o00
Total..............................$8300.00  $830.00
MILITARY COURSES
1918                1917      Increase
Army StoresProfessor J. A. Bursley.......... $500.00
Assistants....................... 500.00
Incidental Expense.............. 200.00
$I,200.00            +   1,200.00
Military TrainingProfessor............$5.        500.00                  500.00 500.00
Total................................$1,700.00           +-  $I,700.oo
ADMINISTRATION
Professor E. H. Kraus, Dean..... $500.00
Professor T. E. Rankin, Secretary   300.00
Professor A. G. Hall, Registrar,
College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts....................  Ioo.00




124                DECEMBER MEETING, 1917
I918                1917     Decrease
Assistant Professor L. A. Hopkins,  Secretary,  Colleges  of
Engineering and Architecture..    Ioo.0o
Professor C. W. Edmunds, Secretary, Medical School............  oo00.00
Professor E. Holbrook, Secretary,
Law School.................... 200.00
Professor A. H. Lloyd, Dean,
Graduate School...............    oo00.00
Dean of Women................. o00.00
Assistant in Law Library.........   25.00
Total...............................  $1,525.00   $I,525.00
GENEIRAL EXPENSE
(Tentative distribution subject to change within the total amount)
6,ooo Announcements, general,
complete....................... $450.00
5,000 Announcements, Embalming
and Sanitary Science...........   40.00
I0,000 Announcements, Law.......    00oo.
75,000 Announcements, general,
abridged....................... 975:00oo
5,000 Announcemeiits, Pharmacy,
inserts.........................  1 5.00
Non-resident Lecturers.......... I00.00
Stenographer................... 700.00
Messenger and clerical assistance..  35.00
Lecturer Attendant..............   50.00
Stationery and Printing........... 300.00
Postage..........................  I50.00
Incidentals.......................  75.00


Total..............................  $2,990.00


$3,140.00  -$  I50.00




JANUARY MEETING
UNIVERSITY 01 MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, JANUARY 17, 1918.
The Board met in the Regents' Room at 9:55 A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Sawyer, Regent Hubbard, Regent Gore, Regent Murfin, and Regent
Clements. Absent, Regent Beal, who later took his seat,
and Regent Hanchett and Superintendent Keeler.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the meeting of December 21, 1917, were approved as submitted to
the members in proof, with corrections on pages 94, 95, 96,
97, 98, 114, II5, 116, 117, II8, 121, and 124.
On motion of Regent Leland, the sum of;.300 was set
aside to cover the expenses of transporting to the University
and of housing properly the Frederick Stearns collection of
molluscs, offered as a permanent loan to the Museum of
Zoology by the Detroit Museum of Art.
A request was received from Clayton M. Steele, a stu(ent in the University in I916-I9I7, for the refund of payment by him to the Homoeopathic Hospital of charges arising out of an operation at the Hospital. Mr. Steele maintained that this expense should have been paid by the University Health Service. In view of the fact that the Health
Service did not order the operation, and that Mr. Steele
chose to have the operation performed with full knowledge
that he would be expected to pay for it, on motion of Regent Sawyer the Board denied this request.
A petition was received from Mr. L. C. Todd for a refund of one year's fees as a Medical student, on the ground
that he did only half work during each of two years and
was at the same time an assistant in the employ of the University. It was held that the circumstances in Mr. Todd's
case were not those contemplated by the Regents in their
actions of June, I916, page 480, and February, I908, page
228, and on motion of Regent Leland, Mr. Todd's request
was denied.




I26


JANUARY MEETING, 1918


On motion of Regent Leland, the Board denied the request of Mr. Retla H. Alter, at present a student in the
University, for permission to register as a resident of
Michigan.
The request of the Faculty of the College of Dental
Surgery for a change in the management of the Dental College Library (see page II3) was, on motion of Regent
Sawyer, referred to the Library Committee of the Regents,
with power.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board formally approved the recommendation of the Faculty of the Medical
School for affiliation between the Medical School and the
Municipal University of Akron, Ohio (see page II3). Under this plan, as in the case of other colleges affiliated with
the Medical School, prospective medical students at this
University may complete their pre-medical work at Akron,
following which and after one year's residence in the Medical School they may receive the A.B. degree from the
Akron, and after four full years' residence at the Medical
School may receive the M.D. degree from this University.
Regent Beal took his seat.
The matter of a Professorship in Educational Psychology
and Experimental Education (see page 97) was, on motion
of Regent Gore, continued with the Executive Committee,
with power.
On motion of Regent Leland, Regent Hubbard as chairman of the committee on preparing copies of the by-laws
of the University (see page 99) was requested to have copies
of the by-laws so far compiled sent to each member of the
Board. This action of the Regents included provision for
such expense for clerical services as might be required.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, a communication from
Professor Clarence T. Johnston, transmitted by Dean
Cooley, stating the need of land near the University for field
work in surveying, was referred to the Executive Committee, with power should necessity for emergency action arise.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board declined to
make any refund of University Hospital bills paid by Mrs.
Gustava Danielson.
The President reported that acting for the committee




JANUARY MEETING, i918


I27


consisting of Regent Sawyer and himself (see page ioI),
le had notified Dr. Milton T. Watson, of Detroit, that should
Dr. Watson endow a fund for research work in orthodontia,
the Regents would be willing to administer such fund
whether the research were to be carried on at this University or elsewhere.  On motion of Regent Sawyer, this action was approved.
The Board considered several matters in connection with
the University Health    Service  (see pages 103-Io6, inclusive), and took the following actions, all on motions of
Regent Sawyer:The present arrangement for the use of taxicabs when
required by a Health Service physician was continued, in
lieu of the provision by the University of an automobile.
The employment of a domestic sanitarian was authorized in accordance with item 4 on page I04, with the understanding that this service, unless rendered gratis, would be
at the expense of the Health Service.
The titles of the members of the Health Service medical
staff other than the Director and the Associate Physician,
were fixed as "Assistant Physicians."
A period of two years was adopted as the regular appointment time of the Assistant Physicians in the Health
Service.
The Board directed compulsory attendance of all new
students in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
and the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture upon a
course of instruction in personal health, to consist of six
one hour lectures and demonstrations, the lectures to be conducted by the Health Service. This provision continues
from year to year unless rescinded by the Board.
Regent Leland reported a meeting between the Budget
Committee and the Deans of the various Schools and Colleges, and stated that a report with respect to plans for
the budget of I918-I9I9 would be presented by him at the
next meeting of the Board.
Regent Beal reported that the committee consisting of
himself and Miss Alice Evans had authorized Miss Ge-.
nevieve E. O'Leary to take gymnasium work without regu



128


JANUARY MEETING, 1918


larly enrolling in the University, but with the payment of
the regular Barbour Gymnasium fee (see page IIo).
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted an
allowance of $400, in addition to the $ioo allowed at the
December meeting     (see pages   102 and   II2), toward
the compensation of nurses who lost clothing and other
property in the fire of November 8, at Ioo8 Cornwell Place.
Settlement is to be made by the Superintendent of the
University Hospital on vouchers approved by the Superintendent of Nurses, in the ratio of $500 to $930.67, the latter
amount being the aggregate loss.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Regents declared it
to be the sense of the Board that personal property upon the
Campus or in University buildings could not be insured by
the Regents, and no responsibility for individual losses from
fire could be assumed by the Regents.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board voted that an offer of $3,500 in cash would be accepted, if made, for the
land owned by the University in Newaygo County (see
page 6i).
The following communication was received from     Professor Robert T. Crane, with the endorsed approval of
Dean Effinger and Dean Lloyd:There is an opportunity of securing for the University
a connection which would make Michigan the centre of all
governmental research agencies in the country and would
give us facilities for the training of men for public service
that would be unrivalled and indeed could not be duplicated.
For the past three years persons interested in governmental research have met in annual conference. A considerable group of men from some thirty organizations gathered in Detroit in November last and formed a permanent
association. The members represent university, city, county,
state, and national institutions known variously as research
agencies, as bureaus of economy and efficiency, and by other
titles.
The Conference established an executive committee
whose duties were to arrange an annual meeting and also
more frequent meetings of sections, to arrange for a clearing-house of information as to the lines of research, in which




JANUARY MEETING, 1918


I29


each organization is at any time engaged, to collect, preserve,
and disseminate among the members the final reports of all
work accomplished, to maintain lists of men who have specialized in particular subjects and who might be available
elsewhere, to publish a weekly bulletin showing the stage
of work on hand in each bureau and the completion of final
reports, and ultimately to issue a more pretentious journal.
This is not a program fathered by the desire to be doing
something.  It is a necessity so imperative that it has
brought together in the Conference organizations which
have been bitterly hostile to each other. Unnecessary repetitions of the same investigations, owing to lack of knowledge
of each others' work, have proved intolerably costly.
For the purposes outlined above, the executive committee is to establish an office in one of the bureaus. We
may be able to bring this office to our University Bureau of
Reference and Research in Government, through the influence of Mr. Otto Kirchner, of Detroit, the chairman of the
executive committee of the Conference. Mr. Kirchner has
just shown his interest in us by contributing, together with
his associates, the sum of $I,8oo annually in order that three
students from our training course in municipal administration may receive from the Detroit Bureau of Governmental
Research a monthly fellowship or stipend of $Ioo each
during the six months which we require that they shall
spend in field work for practical experience before graduation. It is almost certain that the University can secure
the location of this office in its Bureau of Government on
the single condition that it offer a competent staff.
To this end, the entire time of our secretary will be
needed and more: many long evenings will be required,
The secretary is now on part time at $900. It will be necessary to increase the salary to $2,000. The additional sum
required for the remaining six months of this year is $550.
The budget contains an allowance of $300 for an assistant.
The fact that no assistant has been appointed is not because
he is not badly needed. It means simply an earnest effort
to economize in the present emergency. It is asked that this
$300 be diverted to the secretary of the Bureau. In requesting an additional appropriation of $250, it may be permissible
to point out that the Department of Political Science is effecting a net saving in salaries of $3,600 over the roll of the
past year, the five members of the staff now at work receiving $5,600 against an allowance last year of $IO,200. At




130


JANUARY MEETING, 1918


the same time there has been no cut in the work of the
Department, which is being conducted under considerable
stress without the slightest reduction in the courses offered
to students..The Conference office will involve:no other expense to
the Uniyersity of any kind whatsoever. Our accommodations are ample for any future needs. All costs of publication, clerical assistance, and correspondence will be borne
by the Conference.
In view of the present financial difficulties of the University, these observations are offered:(I). This opportunity, if it can be secured at all, must
be seized at once. It will not occur a second time. The
competition for the Conference office is sure to be very
keen.
(2). The office would bring to the University a finer
collection of original material in politics than has ever been
in existence. Much of this material never appears in print.
What receives publication would be available here long before.
(3). This material would be invaluable in the training of our students for public administration.
(4). There is no other way in which the University
can perform so great a service to the country in the field
of politics.  These research  agencies are contributing
enormously to the civic efficiency of the country. It is these
agencies only which are doing sound, effective, fundamental
work in this line. They are the livest forces that exist for
the constructive up-building of our public administration.
If advantage can be taken of this exceptional opportunity to make Michigan the center of all governmental research in this country, authority is respectfully asked to
offer our Bureau of Government as a home for the Research Conference.
Professor Reeves has telegraphed his entire approval
of this plan.
RCBERT T. CRANE
December 13, 1917
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board authorized the
use of the $300 mentioned above as originally appropriated
for an assistant, and set aside the additional sum of $250
as requested, in order that the salary of the Secretary of the
Bureau of Municipal Research might be increased to $2,000;




JANUARY MEETING, I918


I31


and the Regents further approved the plan in general, as
outlined by Professor Crane. The appropriation and the
general approval were conditioned upon the actual establishment at the University of-the offices of the Conference
as contemplated in Professor Crane's communication.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board approved the
traveling expense vouchers of Regent Hubbard in the
amount of $472.98 from January I6, I917, to December 24,
1917, inclusive.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board approved the
traveling expense vouchers of Regent Clements, in the
amount of $I09.96, from August I, I917, to December 22,
I917.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Executive Committee was requested to report to the Regents a recasting of
the membership of the standing committees of the Board.
At this point the Board took a recess for lunch.
AFTERNOON      SESSION
Upon reassembling, there were present the President,
Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Gore, and Regent Murfin.
Absent, Regent Hanchett and Superintendent Keeler.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Health Service fee for
the Summer Session was fixed at $I.50, beginning with the
Summer Session of I918.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board declined to
pay the expense for subsistence of Mr. John Bonin, instrument man at Camp Davis during the past summer. The
expense for transportation to and from the Camp not in
excess of the ordinary railroad fare and the cost of sleeper
and meals enroute, was allowed. The Secretary was directed to report whether Mr. Bonin used his own automobile
at his own expense in the service of the Camp during the
session, and to report the facts at the next meeting of the
Board.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Secretary was instructed
to make copies of all deeds by which real estate has been or




132


JANUARY MEETING, 1918


shall be conveyed to the Regents, and to file such copies in
the office of the Secretary of State, at Lansing. The Board
approved such expense for clerical service as might be required in carrying out this order.
On motion of Regent Beal, an offer from    Mr. Chris
Donnelly, of Ann Arbor, to sell the property at 220 S. I2th
St. at $4,000 was placed on record.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board directed the return
of the out-door physical education fee to two students recommended for such refund by the Committee of the Board
in Control of Athletics.
The report of the Board in Control of Athletics, by
Professor R. W. Aigler as Chairman, was presented and on
motion of Regent Beal was received and filed. The report
showed for the period covered, from July I, I916, to June
30, I9I7, total receipts, inclusive of current loans, of $124,306.39, including the out-door physical education fee paid
by the students.   The total disbursements, inclusive of
loans paid, were $124,350.26. During this period the indebtedness of the Athletic Association showed a net reduction
of $18,500. The report dealt largely with the relation of
the war to athletics. Intramural athletics have been largely
superseded by the work of the Military Department, though
a total number of 1,750 students had participated in the
intramural sports during the year. The report further recorded the events leading to the resumption of membership
by this University in the Western Intercollegiate Conference.
Regent Gore was excused.
On motion of Regent Clements, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That the President of the University and the
Acting Superintendent of Grounds supervise the use of heat
and light in the buildings of the University, and in such
supervision it is the intention of the Board of Regents that
all rooms lighted and heated for non-essential meetings, or
used by a small number of students, be closed, and wherever
possible the work in class rooms be combined so as to bring
about fuel conservation.
On recommendation of the Board of Governors, the Regents officially confirmed the designation of the women's




JANUARY MEETING, 1918


I33


residence hall at 1227 Washtenaw Avenue, as "Alumnae
House."
On nomination of the Chicago Alumnae Association,
Mrs. James R. Angell, of Chicago, was elected by the Regents as a member of the Board of Governors of the
Alumnae House.
Professor Kelsey gave notice that Mr. Lawrence D. Buhl,
of Detroit, had sent a contribution of $Ioo for the Buhl
Classical Fellowship for the present year. On motion of
Regent Leland, this contribution was accepted and the President was requested to transmit the thanks of the Regents
to Mr. Buhl.
A communication was received from Mrs. Clara Hadley
Wait, State Regent of the Daughters of the American Revolution, requesting that the name of the fund given by the
Daughters of the American Revolution to the University
(see page 406, April, 1916) should be changed to "Daughters of the American Revolution Emergency Fund." The
request was further made that this fund should be available to any student, man or woman, American or foreign
born, in any Department of the University, who in the opinion of the committee administering the fund needs a small
loan to tide over a financial emergency, such loan to be without interest for short periods of time. On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board approved the change in the name
and in the conditions attached to the fund.
The President reported the final signing of the agreement between former Regent Levi L. Barbour and the Regents, as printed on pages 93, 94, and 95, and filed such
signed agreement with the Secretary for preservation arong
the papers of the meeting of December 21, I917, relating to
Mr. Barbour's benefactions.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, First Lieutenant Losey
J. Williams, U. S. A., retired, was appointed Associate Professor of Military Science from December I, 1917, when he
was assigned by the War Department to the University,
with pay from the University at the rate of $300 per year
following that date.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board approved Regent
Leland's traveling expense vouchers for $50.20, from January 19, 1917, to January 17, 1918, inclusive.




I34


JANUARY MEETING, 1918


The President filed the following communication from
Professor Moses Gomberg, expressing the reasons why
Professor Gomberg had not accepted the leave of absence
tendered him (see page 8o):PRESIDENT H. B. HUTCHINS,
University of Michigan.
MY DEAR PRESIDENT HUTCHINS:As you know from a previous report by me, I did not
accept the position in Washington, with regard to which
the University authorities so kindly expressed their willingness to give me leave of absence, if necessary. One of the
reasons for my decision was that the work contemplated for
the new laboratory had already been amply provided for in
another department, as it seemed to me.
Through the courtesy of the Bureau of Mines I was
given the opportunity to become fully acquainted with the
various problems carried on in the Department of War Gas
Investigations. The Washington laboratories for this purpose are crowded to the limit and are still partially in process of construction. Under these circumstances I felt I
could contribute towards the cause more by utilizing the
laboratory and library facilities of our University than if I
remained in Washington on full time employment by the
Bureau of Mines. Accordingly I have returned to Ann Arbor and resumed my regular class duties, and, outside of
that, am giving all of my time to work on a problem of
immediate importance to the War Gas Department. There
is enough work ahead to keep me here certainly until the
end of the semester.
My relation to the Bureau of Mines, as I desire to have
it, is explained in my letter to Dr. Norris, a copy of which
I enclose for your perusal.
I trust the steps I have taken will find your approval.
Sincerely yours,
M. GOMBERG
Ann Arbor, Mich.,
January 5, I918
MEMORANDUM TO DR. J. F. NORRIS
Replying to your favor of December 15, I beg to present in the accompanying sheet the information required in
connection with my appointment.
The appointment which I am desiring to get is of some
nature similar to that of the men in other educational in



JANUARY MEETING, I9r8


I35


stitutions, as in Harvard, Johns Hopkins, etc. Such an appointment will permit me to carry on work at Ann Arbor,
Michigan, with the laboratory facilities as offered there, and
to report upon the progress of the work to the office here
at Washington by letter, or in person, as may seem advisable, and to spend such time here as may be on occasions
deemed necessary.
Respectfully,
(Signed) M. GOMBERG
Washington, D. C.,
December 19, 1917
On motion of Regent Beal, and in accordance with the
recommendation of Professor E. C. Case and Dean Effinger,
the Board extended the leave of absence of Dr. C. W. Cook,
Assistant Professor of Economic Geology, to include the
second semester of the present year. The leave continues to
be without salary (see page 22).
Dean Cooley appeared and took up with the Board matters relating to the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture.
The following actions were taken, on motion of Regent
Hubbard, upon condition that the budget of the Department
of Chemical Engineering was not increased thereby:i. Leave of absence under the conditions of the resolution of June 22 (see page 788) was granted to Mr. Robert
F. Archer, Instructor in Chemical Engineering, from December 15, 1917, to enable him to accept appointment in the
Inspection Section of the Signal Corps.
2. The appointment of Frank P. Zimmerli (see page
90) was raised to a Teaching Assistantship, with salary
at the rate of $500, to date from December 15, 1917.
3. Mr. Roman F. Geller, now Student Assistant in
Chemical Engineering, was advanced to Teaching Assistant,
vice Clifford J. Bottje, from December I5, the date of the
latter's resignation, and with salary at the same rate as
that of Mr. Bottje.
Leaves of absence for war service, under the conditions
of the resolution appearing on page 788, as above mentioned,
were granted to Mr. Raymond W. Barnard, Instructor in




136


JANUARY MEETING, 1918


Mathematics in the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture, and to Mr. M. J. Orbeck, Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing.
A proposed sale of the Ioo,ooo-pound testing machine
owned by the University to a company needing it for use
in the company's work upon a "Liberty Motor" contract
for the Government, was referred to the Secretary and Dean
Cooley, with power.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, degrees were granted
as follows:
BACHELOR OFI SCIENCE IN INGINIERING (CIVIL ENGINEERING)
Ernesto G. Guzman
George Walterhouse
BACHELOR O SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING (ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING)
Guy Valjean Budlong
BACHELOR O0 SCIENCE IN 1ENGINEERING (CHEMICAL
ENGINEIRING)
Peter Currie Downie
On motion of Regent Hubbard, and on condition that
no additional expense to the University should arise from
this action, permission was given to the Department of Electrical Engineering to offer to properly qualified senior students during the second semester of the present University
year an eight-hour course in radio communication, this
course to be accepted in lieu of technical electives at present
authorized to meet the requirements for graduation, and further, discretionary power was lodged with the Professor of
Electrical Engineering to substitute the course in radio communication for prescribed courses.
Dean Cooley presented schedules for three proposed war
courses in naval training which had been worked out by
the Faculty of the College of Engineering and sent to Captain W. A. Moffet, U. S. N., for the approval of the Navy
Department. The Dean stated that if these courses were
so approved by the Department he would like authority to
bring them before the Regents for their approval. No action was taken upon this matter pending the receipt of information from the Navy Department.




JANUARY MEETING, 1918


'37


Dean Cooley filed the following communication in writing:PRESIDENT H. B. HUTCHINS,
University of Michigan.
MY DEAR MR. PRESIDENT:In the hurry yesterday, I omitted submission as per
your direction, of the question of work on steel shell forgings for the Inspection Section, Gun Division of the War
Department (Albemarle Building, 24th and Broadway, New
York City).
I. It is proposed to send on a number of projectile
forgings to our Chemical Engineering Department to be
worked out chemically and physically. In order to do this
work, it will be necessary to section the shells in our shops,
making a large number of specimens for physical test. The
shells are 8", of high carbon steel and very hard; an estimate prepared by the Engineering Shops shows that the sectioning will be something less than $Ioo.
We are well equipped to do the work asked of us and
ask authority for undertaking the work.
2. On January 7th we were asked by the Ordnance
Department Research Laboratory at Sheffield, Alabama,
whether we could make in our shops iron castings up to
200 pounds weight. We replied that we could and this
morning came plans and directions for the castings, which
are for an ammonia oxidizer. We are asked to wire estimates of the cost of patterns and castings.
We would like authority to do this work in case it is
assigned to us.
Respectfully,
M. E. COOLEY
Ann Arbor, Mich.,.
January 17, I918
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board authorized
the making of tests of shells as requested by the Ordnance
Department, and left with the Executive Committee, with
power, the second question proposed in Dean Cooley's communication.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, leave of absence with
pay was granted to Mr. Porter H. Evans, Instructor in
Electrical Engineering, for the last four weeks in the current semester, in order that he might take up special studies




I38


JANUARY MEETING, 1918


preparatory to the giving of courses in radio communication. Further, the Board authorized the expenditure of not
to exceed $I50 for Mr. Evans's transportation to Washington and return, and his subsistence while there during such
period of study.
On motion of Regent Leland, leave of absence for one
month, with pay, was granted to Professor Stanislaus J.
Zowski to enable him to take up a problem in which. the
Government desires his aid.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board allowed the
sum of $350 to cover the cost of publication, with present
addresses only, of the alumni of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture. The complete record of past business
and professional connections and addresses is to be omitted.
Dean Cooley withdrew.
The President filed a communication from Professor
John P. Everett, of Kalamazoo, as Secretary of the Michigan State Teachers' Association, transmitting the following
resolution adopted at the last annual meeting of the Association:This Association continues on record as being strongly
in favor of the establishment of a teachers' training school
at the University of Michigan, and emphatically urges upon
the Regents the importance of their early attention to this
matter.
A communication from Dr. L. H. Newburgh in charge
of the Department of Internal Medicine, urging the necessity of larger animal rooms, and of repairs to the floor of
the laboratory of the Department of Internal Medicine, was
referred, on motion of Regent Sawyer, to the Buildings and
Grounds Committee, with power.
A communication from    Acting Superintendent E. C.
Pardon, relative to the possible closing of the Library on
Sunday afternoons, was referred to the Fuel Conservation
Committee consisting of the President and Mr. Pardon,
with power.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Dr. Perley B. Exelby was
appointed First Assistant to Dr. I. D. Loree, Associate
Professor of Genito-Urinary Surgery in the Medical School,




JANUARY MEETING, I918


I39


with salary of $g90, twelve months' basis, as provided in the
budget. Dr. Exelby's appointment is to date from such time
as Dr. Robert T. Baker, the present incumbent, is called into
Army service. In the meantime, from January 21, I918,
Dr. Exelby will serve as Second Assistant, with salary at
the rate of $400 per year, twelve months' b.asis, as provided
in the budget.
The Board voted that during the University year I918 -1919, Professor Loree might expect to have the services
of Dr. Carroll C. Hyde, as Interne, without salary, but with
the payment of his expenses for lodging outside the Hospital, in lieu of the lodging ordinarily provided for Internes
within the Hospital. This expense will be paid out of the
amount ordinarily appropriated for a second assistant in
Genito-Urinary Surgery.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board accepted the
resignation of Raymond N. Brown, as Head of the Orders
and Accessions Department of the Library, to take effect
January 3I, I918. Mr. Brown actually left the University
on January 7, I918, to enter on Y. M. C. A. war duties, but
in view of the length of his service here without vacation,
the resignation was made technically effective as above.
On motion of Regent Clements, Amanda M. Belser was
appointed Acting Head of the Department of Orders and
Accessions at the University Library, to date from January 8, I918, with compensation at the rate of $I,500 per
year on the twelve months' basis.
In view of the transfer of Mr. Ross G. Walker from his
position as Messenger to the Dean of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to an Assistantship in the Accounting Laboratory of the Department of Economics, such
transfer being effective as of January 3, I918, the salary of
Mr. S. W. Sedgwick, the remaining messenger in the office of the Dean, was increased, to date from January 3, to
$300 per year, with the understanding that he should carry
the work without the appointment of another messenger.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board authorized the
participation by the University of Michigan in the Intercollegiate Intelligence Bureau, for war service, on the basis
of a $50 membership fee.




I40


JANUARY MEETING, 1918


The President filed several letters from Mr. C. A. Eggert. No action was taken thereon.
The Secretary read a letter from Glicman, Lindley &
Morden, attorneys, of Detroit, presenting a claim on the
part of Mrs. Anna L. Sebring for alleged damages due to
a fall on a Campus sidewalk. On motion of Regent Clements, this communication was referred to Cavanaugh &
Burke, attorneys of the Board, for investigation and report.
The following report was filed by the Secretary, and,
on motion of Regent Clements, the action of the President
and Secretary was approved and confirmed:To the Honorable Board of Regents:In accordance with notice from the Federal Government that commutation to the extent of $14 per uniform
would be allowed by the Government for the University
Reserve Officers' Training Corps, and notice from the
Michigan War Preparedness Board that it would extend aid
at the rate of $Io per suit to all enrolled in such training
course, the undersigned have contracted for 1,644 uniforms
as follows:
With Mandel Brothers, of Chicago, for regulation
blouse and breeches, at $I7.60 plus an estimated additional
Io cents per suit for delivery by express instead of by
freight; for regulation cap and insignia, $I.75; for canvas
leggings per pair, $.90.
With Endicott, Johnson & Co., of Endicott, N. Y., for
regulation army shoes at $4.30 per pair. It is understood
that the student will pay $.80 per pair toward the cost of
these shoes and that one additional pair may be bought for
his use, in accordance with the recommendation of Lieutenant Mullen, the Commandant, at $4.30 per pair at his own
expense if he so desires.
The total of the above figures is $23.85, exclusive of
the $.80 mentioned as payable by the student, leaving $.I5
per uniform for contingencies.
A statement of the details leading up to the above
action by the undersigned is attached hereto. This statement is of considerable length.
We beg to ask your confirmation of our action.
H. B. HUTCHINS,
President
S. W. SMITH,
January 15, I918                         Secretary




JANUARY MEETING, 1918


I4I


On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board allowed the
necessary expenditures for providing plates and blanks for
commissions and warrants to officers and non-commissioned
officers of the University Reserve Officers' Training Corps.
The Board directed that in view of the scarcity and the high
cost of parchment, the commissions and warrants should
be prepared upon paper and not upon parchment.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board directed that
the custom of sending a copy of the annual catalogue to all
alumni and former students within the State should not be
observed during I918, and that the edition of the annual
catalogue should be decreased accordingly. It was understood that copies of the catalogue should be sent to all alumni
associations.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Mr. Arnold H. Eggerth
wfas appointed Assistant in Bacteriology at $I,6oo per year,
as provided in the budget, to take the work of Assistant
Professor DeKruif, on leave, the appointment to date from
the time of Dr. DeKruif's leaving the University to such
time as Mr. Eggerth shall himself enter the military service,
though riot for a longer period than to the end of the present
University year.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Homoeopathic Medical School,
the certificate of graduation from the Homoeopathic Hospital Trainling School for Nurses was voted to Frances Willard Hill.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Dental Surgery,
the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery was conferred, as
of the Class of 1917, upon Harold Charles Kahn, Ralph
Arthur Denison, and Jay Henry Locke.
On recommendation of the Faculty of the Medical
School, and upon motion of Regent Sawyer, certificates of
graduation from the University Hospital Training School
for Nurses were voted to the following:Helen Beacom              Lela Mae Reagan
Helen Portia Hilton       Marion Hurd Young
Celia A. Lewis            Agnes Katherine Curran




142


JANUARY MEETING, 1918


An Executive Diploma for three years of executive work
in the Training School for Nurses, was voted -to Cleo E.
Ford.
On motion of Regent Leland, the claim      of Magdalena
and Anna Nickelsen, presented by their brother, Instructor
J. M. Nickelsen, for registration as residents of Michigan,
was denied.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board refused the
claim  of Charles L. Tomlinson for permission to register
during the present year at a reduced fee under circumstances
stated by Mr. Tomlinson.
On motion of Regent Murfin, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Law School, the degree of
Bachelor of Laws was conferred upon Fred Sylvester Flick,
A.B.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board confirmed the
following appointments made by the Secretary, upon proper
recommendations and adequate provisions in the budget.
Leland S. Forrest, Clerk of the Practice Court, for
the balance of the University year after December I, 1917,
with salary of $Ioo.
Arthur E. Hammond, Demonstrator of Clinical Dentistry, for the balance of the University year after December Io, 1917, with salary at the rate of $50 per month.
Arnold H. Eggerth, Assistant in Bacteriology, for the
period from December Io to January I, vice Assistant Professor Paul H. DeKruif, with salary at the rate of $I,6oo
per year.
Sherman Jarman, Keeper of the Bogardus Tract, vice
Vernon C. Jarman, resigned, from December I, 1917, with
salary of $50 per month.
Byron E. Breckenridge, Student Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, resigned under date of December I, I917.
Carl H. Ruch, Student Assistant in Surveying, vice
Orris Bonney, who did not take up the work, for the balance of the University year after December I, I917, with
salary at the rate of $Ioo per year.
William H. Price, Student Assistant in Civil Engineering, vice Maxwell A. McKenzie, for the balance of the University year after December 6, 1917, with salary at the
rate of $I50 per year.




JANUARY MEETING, 1918


I43


H. M. Shapero, Reading Assistant in Economics, to
take a portion of the work of A. P. Warriner, half-time
Instructor in Economics, resigned on account of ill-health.
This appointment is for the balance of the first semester.after November I, 1917, with salary of $Ioo.
Loren A. Collen, Assistant in General Chemistry, vice
William Kirschgessner, resigned, for the balance of the
University. year after December 14, 1917, without salary.
Franklin C. Carter, holder of Detroit Edison Fellowship, resigned under date of December 15 to enter goveernment service.
Rhoda Hand, Clerk to University Health Service, vice
Mrs. Daisy Andrus Page, resigned, from January I, 1918,
with salary at the rate of $600 per year, twelve months'
basis.
Frances Sherk, Record Keeper in the Homoeopathic
Hospital, from December Io, 1917, vice Eugenia Allen, resigned under date of November 13, 1917, with salary at the
rate of $6oo per year, twelve months' basis.
Mrs. Clare Mullett, in charge of Classification General
Library, during the absence of Frederick P. Jordan, from
January I to June 30, I918, with an addition of $ISo to
present salary of $900.
Mary A. Jackman, Assistant in Classification General
Library, during the absence of Frederick P. Jordan, from
January I to June 30, 1918, with an addition of $I50 to
present salary of $600.
Harcourt L. Caverly, Reading Assistant in Economics,
vice C. R. Cummings, resigned, for the balance of the University year after December 17, 1917, with salary at the
rate of $250 per year.
Clifford Bottje, Teaching Assistant in Chemical Engineering, resigned under date of December 15 to enter
military service.
Sue Biethan, Assistant in Charge Upper Reading Room
General Library, vice S. W. McAllister, resigned, from
January I, I918, with salary at the rate of $800 per year,
twelve months' basis.
Vivian Baker, Assistant in Charge Engineering Library,
vice Blanche Harroun, resigned, from January I, 1918, with
salary at the rate of $750 per year, twelve months' basis.
Mrs. Leah C. Hauser, Multigrapher and Typist in the
General Library, vice Mary R. Haynes, resigned, from January I, I918, with salary at the rate of $6oo per year, twelve
months' basis.




144          JANUARY MEETING, 1918
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board allowed the sum
of $300 to provide for assistance in the Department of Education during the second semester of the present University
year.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote.
On motion, the Board adjourned to 9:30 A. M., February 21.
SHIRL~EY W. SMITH, Secretary.




FEBRUARY MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, l
ANN ARBOR, FEBRUARY 21, I9I8.
The Board met in the Regents' Room at 9:50 A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Hanchett, and Regent
Gore. Absent, Regent Sawyer, who later took his seat, and
Regent Murfin and Superintendent Keeler.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of January
I7, 1918, were approved as submitted to the members in
proof, with corrections on pages I26, I27, I28, 130, I33, I34,
135, 136, I37, and I40.
Regent Leland made an informal report in the matter
of the Michigan Union and its relation to the University
(see page 59). Regent Leland stated that no present steps
would be taken toward the completion of the building beyond those contracts already let, and that the' building
would continue in charge of the Union. The Regents' committee upon this matter was informally discharged.
Regent Gore made a statement with respect to the
proposal of Mrs. Margaret E. Hunt to sell California
timber lands held in trust by the Regents, in which Mrs.
Hunt has a contingent interest (see pages 6I-63). He filed
the following report embodying the substance of his statement:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your Committee appointed at the November, I917,
meeting, in the matter o.f Margaret E. Hunt, begs leave
to report as follows:Numerous personal interviews and much correspondence has been had with Margaret E. Hunt. The recommendation favored by the Regents that a substantial commission, to be agreed upon, be paid to Mrs. Hunt for making sale of the lands is not now favorably received by her.
Her position as stated to the undersigned is that having




146           FEBRUARY MfEETING, 1918
the power to sell the lands, she can pay herself a commission.
Your Committee has tendered the co-operation of the
Regents in the matter of the sale of the California lands
and has offered to send a representative to the Coast, if
necessary, to assist in handling the transaction, look after
the boundary lines, necessary surveys and cruises, and the
consummation of the sale of the property. These proffers
have been declined by Mrs. Hunt. Your Committee was
informed by Mrs. Hunt that it was her desire that no
representative from the Board of Regents, or the University, go to California or take any active part in the matter of the sale and disposition of these lands.
Your Committee further reports that a letter under date
of January 29, 1918, from Mrs. Hunt relative to this transaction contains the following language:"Of course, you understand that my consulting the
Board of Trustees, represented by you, is largely a matter'
of courtesy. From the nature of the gift, the University
will have only what may result, from my management of
the property."
Your Committee could not allow such a statement to
pass unchallenged.  In answer the 'following letter was
written and mailed to Mrs. Hunt:
"MRS. MARGARET E. HUNT,
203 S. Thayer Street,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
"DEAR MRS. HUNT:"Your letter of January 29 requires a definite reply.
In this letter you use the following language:'Of course, you understand that my consulting the Board of Trustees, represented by you, is
largely a matter of courtesy. From the nature of
the gift the University will have only what may
result from my management of the property.'
"It is not my purpose by anything that I do in the
premises to attempt to change the letter or spirit of the
trust imposed upon the Regents of the University. We
recognize your power to sell as defined in the deeds, and
we recognize our own responsibility as Trustees to be
vigilant in the premises to make certain that the property is
made to yield at least a sum fairly approximating the
market value. Representing the Regents in this matter I
feel that these deeds do not permit me to commit the Board




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


I47


to your construction that our participation in the sale is
simply a matter of courtesy. In my judgment, there is a far
deeper responsibility. The duty is upon the Regents, in
my judgment, to exercise a vigilant supervision, consistent
with your own acknowledged rights, over these premises.
I felt that it was due you-and to the subject that I should
definitely make expression of my views on this matter.
On my next trip to Ann Arbor I will call upon you for
a fuller discussion of this particular subject and any other
matters of common interest.
"Yours truly,
'VICTOR M. G(oR
"Benton Harbor, Mich., February 6, I918"
Your Committee, therefore, recommends that further
action in this matter be deferred until Mrs. Hunt shall
make application to the Regents for some specific action,
and that your Committee be discharged from further responsibility in the premises.
VICTOR M. GOR,, Committee
On motion of Regent Clements, the report was received
for record, and the committee was discharged in accordance
with Regent Gore's request.
Regent Clements made an informal statement with respect to the progress of the committee upon plans and site
for the new hospital unit (see page 66).
Regent Beal filed the following report which, on motion
of Regent Leland, was approved by the Board:To the Honorable Board of Regents:At the December meeting (see page Ioo) the undersigned were appointed a committee, with power, to consider the request for a stenographer for the Out-patient
Department in the University Hospital. On investigation,
including personal visits to the daily clinic, we were convinced that the clinic could not be properly conducted
without the services of a stenographer and clerk. We
therefore appointed Miss Florence M. Parsons whose services began on January II at noon, with salary at the rate of
$720 per year. We also authorized the purchase of a typewriter, a desk, and two chairs.
Respectfully submitted,
JUNIUS E. BEAI,
February 4, I918             S. W. SMITH




148


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


Regent Clements reported that in accordance.with the
desire of the Dental Faculty, the control of the Dental
Library (see page 126) would pass into the hands of the
Librarian of the University in accordance with a communication to be filed by the latter. This communication when
filed embodied the provision that the expense under this
arrangement should not exceed the Dental College Library
fee, the proceeds of such fee for this year and for succeeding years, unless otherwise ordered by the Regents, to
be available for the purpose.
The President reported that the matter of a Professorship in Educational Psychoiogy and Experimental Education referred to the Executive Committee (see page I26)
might be dropped as the desired man was not available.
Regent Hubbard made an informal report of progress
in the matter of the publication of the University statutes,
laws, and by-laws (see page I26), and filed a statement,
which the Secretary was directed to have copied and sent
to the members for their consideration.
Mr. H. H. Herbst, of Ann Arbor, appeared before the
Board and discussed with the members the conditions of
a proposed gift by himself to the University. On motion
of Regent Leland, this matter was left with the present
committee, (see pages 32 and 66), consisting of Regent
Beal, the President, and Secretary, with Regent Gore added,
for a formal report at the earliest convenient meeting of
the Board.
The President called up the matter of a communication
from Professor C. T. Johnston relative to the need of land
near the University for field work in surveying, which had
been referred to the Executive Committee (see page 126).
The Secretary read a further letter from Professor Johnston, approved by Dean Cooley, stating that the lands of the
Lamont tract, at present used by the surveyors, were sufficient for the purpose so long as they could be used, but
what was desired was a permanent tract of which the
Surveying Department was not likely to be dispossessed,
and upon which permanent monuments might be set up.
This communication was filed.
Regent Sawyer took his seat.
Regent Leland, as Chairman of the Budget Committee,




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


149


reported having held a meeting with the Deans of the
several Schools and Colleges at which economies for the
coming year.had been discussed, and stated that work along
the indicated lines was progressing.   Regent Leland also
discussed the financial policy which might to the best advantage be pursued in the future.
On motion of Regent H-ubbard, the Board adopted the
following resolution:In view of the present and of the expected decrease in
the number of students, and the necessity arising therefrom
to reduce the teaching force,
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be empowered
to make such reduction as may appear to it to be necessary
or expedient.
Regent Beal, for the Executive Committee, reported
nominations for the Standing Committees of the Board
(see page i31). On motion of Regent Hanchett, committees were accordingly fixed by the Board as follows: —
Executive
The President, Regents Beal and Sawyer
Finance
Regents Leland and Sawyer
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Regents Beal and Hubbard
Colleges of Engineering and Architecture
Regents Hubbard and Leland
Medical School, Dental and Pharmaceutical Colleges
Regents Sawyer and Beal
Law School
Regents Gore and Murfin
Homnoeopathic Medical School
Regents Murfin and Gore
Graduate School and Summer Session
Regents Hanchett and Beal
Library
Regents Clements and Hubbard
Hill Auditorium and Alumnni Memorial Hall
Regents Gore and Hanchett
Athletics, Museum, and Observatory
Regents Murfin and Leland




150


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


Buildings and Grounds
Regents Clements and Hanchett
Healtl Service
Regents Hanchett and Sawyer
Military Training
Regents Leland and Murfin
Extension Service
Regents Hanchett and Gore
In the matter of the use at Camp Davis during the past
summer of an automobile, the property of Mr. John Bonin
(see page I3I), the Secretary reported that Mr. Bonin's
traveling expenses to and from the Camp had been adjusted satisfactorily and that the question of the use of the
automobile might be dropped.
The Secretary read a letter from Acting Superintendent Pardon to the President, which letter constituted a report by the President and Acting Superintendent Pardon
as the committee upon the conservation of heat and light
appointed at the January meeting (see pages 132 and I38).
The report was informally approved and no action was
taken, thus continuing the committee with the same powers
which it had had.
The Board adjourned for lunch.
AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at 2 P. M., the same members
being present as at the morning session with the exception
of Regent Hanchett, who later took his seat.
The Secretary reported that the proposed sale of a testing machine (see page I36), had not taken place since the
company which had proposed to buy this machine had presumably satisfied its needs elsewhere.
With respect to the making of casts in the Engineering
Shops for the Ordnance Department Research Laboratory
at Sheffield, Alabama, referred to the Executive Committee
(see page I37), the President reported that the Research
Laboratory would not require these casts to be made here,
and that this matter might be erased from the program.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


I51


Regent Clements reported that the Buildings and
Grounds Committee had authorized the construction of a
detached house for animals, for the Laboratory of Internal
Medicine at the University Hospital. The expense of building this house was not to exceed $400. Regent Clements
further stated that repairs to the laboratory floors would
not be necessary at present. This report was approved.
The Secretary presented a letter from Cavanaugh &
Burke in the matter of a claim by Mrs. Anna L. Sebring
for alleged damages due to a fall upon a University sidewalk (see page I40). In accordance with the report of the.attorneys the Board held that the accident could not be attributable to lack of care upon the part of the University,
and in view of this fact, that the Regents would not be
justified in acceding to a demand for settlement of this
claim.
On motion of Regent Leland and in accordance with a
communication from the Manager of the Michigan State
Telephone Company, $II5 was added to the telephone ac-,count for the present year to provide for increases in
salaries to the three operators of the University's private
branch exchange. These salaries are to be $40, $40, and
$36, per month, respectively, to date from Febrtiary I.
On motion of Regent Leland, and in accordance with
a letter from former Regent Levi L. Barbour, the Board
voted that incidental expenses in connection with the Scholarships for Oriental Girls established by Mr. Barbour,
should be paid from the income of the fund.
Regent Hanchett took his seat.
In certain matters relating to the administration of the
University Hospital the Executive Committee of the Board
was given power to make adjustments within specified
'limits.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board directed the
payment to Albert Kahn, Architect of the proposed Betsy
Barbour House, of $3,000 on account, payment to be made
from the Betsy Barbour House Fund. The erection of'the
Betsy Barbour House'is to be postponed until a more favorable period in prices of materials and labor for building.
Alternate proposals for providing an indoor rifle range
for the Military Science Department, were referred to the
Regents' Committee on Military Affairs, with power.




I52


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


A communication was received from Dean Cooley with
respect to the policing of the Engineering Building. No
action was taken.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board declined to
make a refund of Health Service fees to Mr. and Mrs.
Einer B. Anderson, students.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board authorized
the transfer of the sum of $444.05 from the salaries account
of the 19I7 Summer Session to the current expense account of the Biological Station for I917.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the salary of Dr. Clyde
B. Stouffer, Assistant Physician in the University Health
Service, was fixed at the rate of $2,500 per year, to date
from February I.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the report of Professor
Henderson as Director of the University Extension Service,.
for the months of December and January, was received and
placed on file.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board approved the
traveling expense vouchers of Regent Sawyer for $245.72,
covering the period from April 26, I917, to January 17,.
19I8, inclusive.
Regent Gore brought up the, question of the salary to
be paid to Professor E. R. Sunderland. On motion of
Regent Clements, this matter was referred to the Committee:
on the Law School, with power.
A long discussion of matters relating to the Law School
ensued, but without definite action.
Regent Sawyer and Regent Gore were excused.
On motion of Regent Leland, Regent Hanchett was
appointed to initial the University vouchers for the months
of February, March, and April.
On motion of Regent Beal, William W. Visscher was
appointed Instructor in Economics for the second semester
of the present University year, vice Mr. Lester B. Vincent,
resigned, with salary at the same rate, namely, $800 per
year.
The Board gave its approval to a form letter sent out
by the President, the Secretary, and the Treasurer, requesting the co-operation of heads of departments in limiting all
expenditures to matters of actual necessity, and directed
the officers to confer specially with heads of departments




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


I53


with respect to requisitions for any materials the purchase
of which might perhaps be avoided.
Executive Committee reports, as follows, were filed by
the President, and on motion of Regent Clements, the
several reports were approved and confirmed by the
Regents:To the Regents of the University of Michigan
GENTLEMEN:On February 5 the following letter was received from a
committee of the Students' Christian Association:
"PRISIDENT H. B. HUTCHINS,
University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
"DEAR M/IR. PRESIDNT: —
"Some unforeseen complications have arisen because
of the closing of Newberry Hall. This action was necessitated because of the general shortage of coal. For some
years the Y. W. C. A. has conducted a tea room in Newberry Hall, not because this yields a revenue, but because
it performs a real service. This year about forty boarders
have been accommodated. Twelve University girls have
helped the matron in various ways and by so doing have
earned enough to assist them materially and to enable them
to remain in college.
"In order that these young women may continue with
their work here, it has been suggested that the tea room
might be re-opened in Barbour Gymnasium. It is believed
that the former patrons of the tea room will return if
this arrangement can be made. The Y. W. C. A. is obliged
to continue the employment of the matron who had charge
of the tea room until June. She will be idle and under
salary as long as the present condition continues.
"The University Health Service gives the tea room a
high rating. We believe that it is of sufficient value to the
University students to warrant a general concern in its
continuance. The undersigned committee will be glad to
undertake any duties that it may have to assume in the
reorganization of the tea room should it be possible to conduct the same in Barbour Gymnasium.
Respectfully,
MRS T. E. RANKIN
Miss A. E. WESLLS'
"February 5, I918"        CLARENCE T. JOHNSTON




154           FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918
In view of the service which the tea room has performed for the young women of the University, as stated
in the communication, your Committee felt justified in allowing the use of the basement dining room of the Barbour
Gymnasium as requested, with the understanding that no
expense, except for heat and light, should accrue to the
University by reason of our action. The Christian Association will use its own dishes and equipment, pay for its own
fuel gas, and will in fact pay all expenses otherwise than
for heat and light, which it is not feasible to compute separately.
We trust that our action may be approved by the full
Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
February 6, 1918
To the Regents of the University of Michigan
GENTLE,MEN:At a meeting of the Executive Committee held February
5 the following letter of resignation from Professor T.
J. Mackavanagh was received from Professor Parker and
with the approval of Dean Cooley:"I am offered the position of Associate Professor of
Electrical Engineering in the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C., and it is essential that I report for
the opening of the semester on February 2. I beg to tender
my resignation, and would ask that it take effect on
January 31.
"I thank you for your kindness in this, and for the
many favors received during my association with you."
Under the circumstances your Committee felt that the'
resignation of Professor Mackavanagh should be accepted
and it was accepted, with regret, as of January 31. We.
ask that our action be approved by the Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
J. E. BAAL
WbALTER H. SAWYER
February 5, 1918




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


I55


To the Regents of the University
GENT'L.MMEN:
Your Executive Committee at a meeting held February 4 accepted the resignation of Mr. Max W. Gardner
as Instructor in Botany, said resignation to take effect at
the close of the first semester of the present University
year. In order to provide for the vacancy caused by this
resignation, your Committee appointed Mr. Elmer Walker
Brandes, B.S. and M.S., Michigan Agricultural College,
as Instructor in Botany for the second semester of the present year at a salary of $700 for the semester. The salary
paid to Instructor Gardner was at the rate of $I,500 per
year.
At the same meeting your Committee appointed Miss
Margaret Scott Pengelly, at present Whittier Fellow  in
Botany, as graduate assistant for the second semester at
the rate of $200, to succeed Mr. Wilber Brotherton, resigned. This appointment does not add to the budget.
Hereto attached are the recommendation of Professor
Newcombe, head of the Department of Botany, in regard
to the foregoing action by your Committee, said recommendation being approved by the Dean of the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the resignation of
Mr. Gardner.
Your Committee asks that its action be confirmed by the
full Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS B. BEAI,
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
February 5, I918
To the Regents of the University
GgNTLMMEN:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held January
30 appointed as teaching assistants for the second semester
of this year in the Department of Chemistry, Mr. Gordon
C. Mack and Mr. Earl G. Sturdevant, the salary to be paid
to each to be at the rate of $400 a year. These appointments were made necessary by leave of absence granted to
Assistant Professor Bartell. The situation in the Department due to this leave is fully explained in the attached




I56


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


communication from   Director Campbell and Professor
Bigelow.
As Assistant Professor Bartell will receive more pay
from the Government than his University salary, he will
receive nothing from the University and therefore the appointment of the above-named teaching assistants involves
no addition to the budget.
Your Committee asks that this action be confirmed by
the full Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
January 30, 1918
To the Regents of the University
GENTLEMEN:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held January
30, upon the recommendation of Dr. Warren E. Forsythe,
Director of the University Health Service, appointed Dr.
A. D. Wickett on the Health Service staff to take the place
made vacant by the resignation of Dr. H. R. John, his appointment to continue until July I, 1918. Your Committee
fixed the salary of Dr. Wickett at the rate of $I,500 per
year. As he began work January 24, I918, the time when
Dr. John left, his appointment should begin at that date
and your Committee so authorized it.
The recommendation of Dr. Forsythe is hereto attached
and made a part of this report.
Your Committee asks that this action be confirmed by
the full Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAT,
WALTrER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
January 30, 918I
To the Regents of the University of Michigan
GENTLEMEN:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held January
28 granted leave of absence from the University for a
period of one year to Assistant Professor Floyd E. Bartell,




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


157


said leave of absence to begin February I, 1918. This action
was based upon the request of Assistant Professor Bartell
approved by Professor Bigelow and hereto attached.*
Your Committee asks that its action be confirmed by
the full Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
January 29, 1918
To the Regents of the University of Michigan
GENTLEMEN:At a meeting of the Executive Committee held January
26, upon the recommendation of Professor Arthur G. Canfield hereto attached, Mr. James E. Chenot and Mr. William Fish Marsteller were appointed to instruct the men in
the fifth Military Stores. course of six weeks, from January 5 to February i6, 1918, at the rate of compensation
fixed for the previous terms, as follows: $50 to each instructor for the term. The Committee asks that its action
be confirmed by the full Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
January 26, 1918
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board granted a leave
of absence after April 6 for the remainder of the present
University year to Professor C. H. Van Tyne in order to
enable him to deliver courses of patriotic lectures in New
England. This leave is with salary, as Professor Van
Tyne's work will be carried by his colleagues in his absence.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, degrees and teachers' diplomas were voted as
follows:* As Dr. Bartell goes into army. service at a higher rate of pay than
he has received from the University, his leave is without University pay.
-Secretary.




158


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


BACHtLOR OF ARTS
George Benzing, Jr.         Edgar Russel Paige
Abraham Samuel Buchman      Ernest Frank Montrose Patton
Frederick Cornelius Bolt    Doris Eunice Porter
Fenno Ekke DeVries          Julius Reginald St. Clair
**Howard Fowler Fenstemaker *Earle Edward Schumacher
Frances Elizabeth Hall      Clad Wilburn Wood
Mauritz Gustaf Hedin
BACHELOR OF SCIINCE (IN CHEMISTRY)
Clarence Newton Ferguson    Frederick William Sullivan, Jr.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCI (IN FORESTRY)
Orville Perry Burnett
TEACHERS' DIPLOMA
Howard Fowler Fenstemaker   Earle Edward Schumacher
Doris Eunice Porter
The President presented a questionnaire from the Federal Board for Vocational Education, the purpose of which
was to determine what facilities the University could extend
for war emergency training. This matter was referred to
the Executive Committee for report.
Professor Stanley reported to the Board gifts to the
Stearns Collection as follows:-I. From Mr. Irving K.
Pond, of the Class of 1879, a drum which had been used
by him in the first student orchestra of the University, in
which Mr. William H. Murphy had played violin and Mr.
F. K. Stearns the double-bass. 2. A large tin horn of historical interest to the students of those days through its use
in various student activities at that time. 3. From Mr.
Frederick Talcott, 231 Broadway, Providence, R. I., a
moose-call made by the Micmac Indians, of New Brunswick. 4. From Professor Henry Kraemer, a very interesting guitar made by the Nicaraguan Indians. 5. From the
Chicago Orchestral Association, Mr. F. S. Wessels, Secretary, the loan of a "Hecklephone," an ultra-modern instrument of which no collection thus far has a specimen. This
loan would be, Professor Stanley stated, of a semi-permanent nature. On motion of Regent Clements, these gifts
* With distinction.
** With high distinction.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


I59


and the loan were accepted with thanks, and the President
was requested to express the appreciation of the Regents to
the donors.
On motion of Regent Beal, leave of absence, without
salary, for the second semester was voted to Herbert N.
Schmitt, Instructor in Economics in order to permit him to
take up certain courses in accounting at the State University of Iowa. The Board, further, accepted the resignation
of William S. Krebs, Instructor in Economics, to date from
the end of the first semester, in order to allow Mr. Krebs
to accept the Professorship of Accounting in 'Washington
University.
A communication from the National Headquarters of
the National Security League, suggesting a general official
inquiry into the loyalty of officers, professors, and instructors, was, on motion of Regent Hubbard, laid upon the
table.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board granted leave
of absence, with pay, until the close of the spring recess, to
Dr. William  A. Dewey of the Homeeopathic Medical
School, to allow Dr. Dewey opportunity for recuperation of
health and strength.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board voted an allowance of not to exceed $50 for the expenses of Miss
Agnes E. Wells, Acting Dean of Women, in attendance at
the Conference of Deans of Women to be held in Atlantic
City, N. J., February 25 to 28.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board continued
for the year I918-I919 the leave of absence granted (see
Proceedings, March, 1917, page 724), to Professor R. Wr.
Hegner in order to enable him to pursue studies at Johns
Hopkins University where he has a Scholarship.
Mr. George Johnston, substitute for Dr. Hegner during
his absence, was continued in the same capacity for I9q8 -I919.
On motion of Regent Leland and in accordance with the
recommendation of Professor G. Carl Huber the Board
extended to Major Dean D. Lewis, M. R. C. (in civil life
Associate Professor of Surgery, University of Chicago),
the privileges of the anatomical laboratory, to assist Major
Lewis's experimental work in injured peripheral nerves.




T6o


FEBRUTARY MEETING, I9i8


A communication was received from'Professor F. N.
Scott stating that Mr. J. A. Mosenfelder, Instructor in
Rhetoric, proposed to take the course in Army Stores during the present semester, and that accordingly his recitation hours had been reduced from tel per week to six, with
the understanding that his salary should be correspondingly
reduced 40%. On motion of Regent Hanchett the Board
approved this arrangement.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board approved the
recommendation of Professor A. A. Stanley for the appointment of M/r. Hugh Altvater as holder of the Babcock
Musical Fellowship for the present University year, with
stipend of $250.
A communication was received from Professor Francis
W. Kelsey stating that gifts had been received from Mr. J.
Pierpont Morgan, Jr., and from Messrs. Charles L. Freer
arid William  H. Murphy, enabling the publication of a
monograph entitled "A Gold Treasure of the Late Roman
Period from Egypt," and also of the complete Volume 12
of the "Humanistic Series," of which the monograph formed a part. On motion of Regent Hanchett, these gifts were
accepted with thanks and the President was requested to
communicate to the donors the appreciation of the Regents.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Colleges of Engineering
and Architecture, degrees were conferred as follows:BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING (CIVIL ENGINEERING)
Vincent Guillermety        Harry Driesbach Long
Edgar Rice Kendall         Fang Yen.BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING (MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING)
Thomas Baker Craigie
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING (ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING)
Lyle W. Kennedy, A.B. (Defiance College)
BACHELOR 0o SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING (CHEMICAL
ENGINEERING)
Clifford Bottje             Louis William Schoon
BACHELOR O0 SCIENCE IN ARCHITECTURE (ARCHITECTURE)
Morton Hopkins Ingall




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


A request from   Dean Cooley for an addition to the
budget of the Engineering College to permit the appointment of an additional clerk, was referred to the Executive
Committee, with power.
A further request for a change in title of Mrs. Josephine
Hollands Lucas was referred to the Secretary for a report.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board granted the request of Professor Ulrich B. Phillips for a continuation of
his leave of absence through the second semester of the
present University year, this continuation to be without
salary. Professor Phillips is engaged in Army Y. M. C. A.
work at Camp Gordon.
A request from  Professor Van Zwaluwenburg of the
Department of Roentgenology for the purchase of a dictaphone outfit, was laid upon the table until the next meeting.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That the Secretaries of the various Schools
and Colleges of the University, or other officials transmitting to the Regents names of persons recommended
for degrees, diplomas, or certificates by the several Faculties,
shall be specifically charged with the two below-mentioned
duties:I. To transmit said names in form complete and correct in spelling, and
2. To append to each such name a statement of any
degrees that have been taken by the candidate, together
with the institution or institutions granting such degree
or degrees, and the date or dates of the conferring of the
degree or degrees.
A communication from the Secretary called attention to
the fact that the leave of absence granted Mr. J. M. Nickelsen (see page Io8), in view of the fact that his army pay
was less than the salary he had been receiving from the
University should be changed to conform to the general
resolution (see Proceedings, June, I917, page 788). On
motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board directed that Mr.
Nickelsen's leave should be in accordance with the general
resolution, namely, with pay from the University of the
difference between the compensation from the Government
and his former University salary.




I62


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


The Secretary submitted the following form of con-tract deed tendered by an alumnus of the University who,desired that his name should not be published:This indenture made this 3Ist day of December, in the
year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and seventeen,
between -, party of the first part,
and the Regents of the University of Michigan, a corporation created by the Constitution of the State of Michigan,
party of the second part; witnesseth:
That the said party of the first part, for and in consideration of the sum of one dollar and other valuable considerations to him in hand paid by the said party of the second
-part, the receipt whereof is hereby confessed and acknowl*edged, does by these presents grant, bargain, sell, remise,
release, alien and confirm unto the said party of the second
part and its successors forever, in trust, nevertheless (as
authorized by Act No. 36 of August 30th, 1895, No. 9716
Anno. Stat.) for the sole purpose of holding, maintaining
and continuing as and for an open space, recreation grounds:and park for the adjoining Martha Cook Building;
All those pieces or parcels of land situate and being in
-the City of Ann Arbor, County of Washtenaw and State
of Michigan, and described as follows, to wit:
"Lots number thirteen (I3), fourteen (14), fifteen (15)
and sixteen (I6) in Block six (6) south of Huron Street
-range twelve (I2) east, according to the recorded plat of the
Alteration of the Ann Arbor Land Company's Addition to
the Village (now city) of Ann Arbor, County of Washte-naw and State of Michigan."
Together with all and singular the hereditaments 'and:appurtenances thereunto belonging or in any wise appertaining: To have and to. hold the said premises in trust
nevertheless, as above described, with the appurtenances,
unto the said party of the second part, and to its successors
forever. The said party of the second part, for itself and
its successors, doth covenant and agree to and with the said
--     -   ----, that the party of the second part and its
successors shall and will at all times hereafter preserve and
maintain said premises as an open space adjunct, recreation
grounds and park for the benefit and use of.the occupants
of said Martha Cook Building exclusively, and will not allow
any building on said premises hereby conveyed, except such
peristyle or building in the nature thereof as the party of
-.the first part may himself desire to erect thereon. The




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918                      163
said party of the second part does also hereby covenant and
agree that within four years from the date hereof it will remove all of the.present buildings on said premises. And it
is expressly understood and agreed, and this conveyance is
made and accepted upon the express condition that if said
premises or any part thereof shall at any time be used or
procured, permitted or suffered to be used by the said party
of the second part or its successors, or any person in
possession thereof under it, them, or either of them, in
violation of the trust and agreement aforesaid, or if the
party of the second part, or its successors, shall neglect or
fail to perform, fulfil and keep the trust and agreement
herein contained, or make any default therein, then that in
either of said events this deed shall become null and void.
The said party of the second part for itself and its
successors doth further covenant and agree to and with
-the said          -—, in consideration hereof, that the.above mentioned trust conditions as to the uses and purposes
for which said land shall be used forever hereafter shall:apply equally to the land conveyed to the party of the second part by deed dated July 25, 1917, and recorded July
27, I917, Liber 208, page 45I, and described as follows:Lot 5, Block 6, South of Huron Street, range 12 East,
according to the Alteration of the Ann Arbor Land Company's Addition to the Village (now City) of Ann Arbor,
Washtenaw County, Michigan.
And the said party of the first part, for himself, his
heirs, executors and administrators, does covenant, grant,
bargain and agree to and with the said party of the second
part, its successors and assigns, that at the time of the ensealing and delivery of these presents he is well seized,of the above-granted premises in fee simple; that they are
free from all incumbrances whatever, and that he will, and
his heirs, executors and administrators, shall warrant and,defend the same against all lawful claims whatsoever,
except the right of occupancy for three years by grantors of
said land to the party of the first part.
In witness whereof, the said party of the first part has
hereunto set his hand and seal and the said party of the
'second part has caused its name to be signed hereto by
its President and Secretary, and the seal to be attached
'hereto by its Secretary, the day and year first above written.
Signed, sealed and delivered in the presence of




I64


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


On motion of Regent Gore, the Board accepted the gift
as tendered and authorized the execution of the contract
deed by the President and the Secretary.
On motion of Regent Beal, in accordance with the
recommendation of Professor Robert T. Crane, the Board
appointed Henry Steffens, Jr., of Detroit, as a lecturer
without salary in the Department of Political Science. Mr.
Steffens is to give a course in the Administration of Municipal Finances. His railway transportation between Ann
Arbor and Detroit is to be met by the Regents within an
estimated amount of $40.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following a request
from the proper authorities, the Board continued the leave
of absence of Professor William     H. Hobbs during the
second semester. It was understood that Professor Hobbs
is to provide for his work in the Department of Geology
during his absence and that his leave is to be with salary,
adjusted however by the payment to Professor Irving D.
Scott of $250 during the second semester, this sum to be
deducted from the salary originally provided for Professor
Hobbs.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the following appointments made by the Secretary were approved and confirmed:
Ross G. Walker, transferred from the position of
Messenger in the office of the Dean of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to that of Assistant in the
Accounting Laboratory, vice C. W. Wood, resigned, for the
balance of the University year from January 3, I9I8, with
salary at the rate of $400 per year.
Paul A. Keene, Teaching Assistant in General Chemistry, vice R. P. Russell, resigned, for the balance of the
University year from January I, I9I8, with salary at the
rate of $400 per year.
Raymond M. Langley, Student Assistant in Mechanical
Engineering, vice W. A. McKinley, resigned, for the balance of the University year from January I, I918, with salary at the rate of $200 per year.
L. W. Lamb, Student Assistant in Engineering Mechanics, vice Donald C. McIntyre, resigned, for the balance of the University year from January I, I918, with.
salary at the rate of $I50 per year.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


I65


Robert C. Corlett, Student Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, vice Byron E. Breckenridge, resigned, for the
balance of the University year from December 15, 1917,
with salary at the rate of $200 per year.
Judson C. King, Assistant in General Surgery, Homoeopathic Hospital, vice Philip E. Haynes, resigned, from January I, I9I8, with salary at the rate of $300 per year, twelvemonths' basis.
Sue Hamilton, Domestic Sanitarian upon the Health
Service staff, from January I9, 1918, with a minimum of
twenty hours per week, at the rate of $30 per month, until
July I, 1918.
Olive Lindsey, transferred from the position of Clerk
in the General Catalogue Office to the position of Stenographer and Clerk in the Chemical Laboratory, vice Henrietta
MacBride, resigned, from February I, I9I8, with salary of
$780 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Norman T. Thurston, Student Assistant in Descriptive
Geometry and Drawing, vice Harry-T. Porter, transferred,
from January 21, I918, with salary at the rate of $Ioo per
year.
John T. Lynch, Student Assistant in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing, vice Karl Bintz, resigned, from January 21, I918, with salary at the rate of $Ioo per year.
Raymond J. Palmer, Student Assistant in Descriptive
Geometry and Drawing, from January 21, I9i8, with salary
at the rate of $Ico per year.
Russell G. White, Student Assistant in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing, from January 2I, I9I8, with salary at
the rate of $Ioo per year.
Roy E. Lounsbury, Student Assistant in Architecture,
for the balance of the first semester, from January o0,
I9I8, with salary at the rate of $75 for the semester.
Julius Miesenzahl, Teaching Assistant in Mechanical
Engineering,. with salary at the rate of $6oo per year, resigned under date of January I5, 1918.
Paul B. Taylor, Student Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, with salary at the rate of $200 per year, resigned under date of January I, I9I8.
Charles W. Good, transferred from a $Ioo- to a $20o-Assistantship in Mechanical Engineering under date of January I, I918.
Claude R. Clingman, Student Assistant in Mechanical
Engineering, from January I, I9I8, with salary at the rate
of $Ioo for the year.




i66           FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918
Harry T. Porter, transferred from the position of Assistant in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing, to that of
Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, from January I, I918,
with salary at the rate of $200 per year.
Lawrence V. Kerber, Student Assistant in Mechanical
Engineering, from January 15, Ioi8, with salary at the rate
of $200 for the year.
Fredericka Klingmann, transferred from  the position
of Clerk and Stenographer in the Department of Obstetrics
and Gynecology, to the position of Accountant in the Order
Department of the General Library, vice Mrs. A. C. Weaver,
resigned, with salary at the rate of $850 per year, twelvemonths' basis.
Mrs. Clara Caldwell, Clerk in the General Catalogue
Office, vice Olive Lindsey, transferred, from February I,
I9I8, with salary at the rate of $720 per year, twelve-months'
basis.
John R. McWilliams, Student Assistant in Civil Engineering, vice Harold R. Scovill, resigned, from January 21,
1918, with salary at the rate of $150 per year.
Helen E. Fox, Assistant in Botany, half time, vice
Ernest Reed, resigned, for the. second semester of the University year I917-I918, with salary of $70 for the semester.
Laura Cannon, Assistant in Botany, vice Ernest Reed,
resigned, for the second semester of the University year
1917-I918, with salary of $70 for the semester.
Harold E. Gladhill, Assistant in General and Physical
Chemistry, vice E. E. Schumacher, resigned, for the second
semester of the University year I917-I918, with salary at
the rate of $200 per year.
William H. Graves, Jr., Assistant in General and
Physical Chemistry, vice Harold E. Gladhill, promoted, for
the second semester of the University year I917-I918,
with salary of $50 for the semester.
Gordon C. Mack, promoted to the position of Teaching
Assistant in General and Physical Chemistry, for the second semester of the University year 1917-1918, with salary
at the rate of $4co per year.
Loren A. Collen, Assistant in General and Physical
Chemistry, vice Gordon C. Mack, promoted, with salary at
the rate of $Ioo per year. This appointment is for the
second semester of the University year 1917-1918.
Earl C. Neff, Student Mechanic in the Physics Laboratory, vice Lloyd L. Birckelbow, resigned, from  Feb



FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


i67 -

ruary I, 1918, with pay within $80. This work is to be at
the rate of 40 cents per hour until the $80 is absorbed.
Richard C. Ely, Assistant in Forestry, vice J. E. Woodman, resigned, from February I, 1918, with salary at the
rate of $Ioo per year.
On motion of Regent Hanchett,'a communication fromn
Professor W. D. Henderson as Director of the University
Extension Service, dealing with the expense proposed forthat Service for the year I918-I919, was referred to the
Budget Committee.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Dental Surgery, the
degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery was conferred upon.
the following:Raymond Robert Roussin       George Albert Frederick
James Garretson Murray       William James Watkins
The following communication was received from Dean!
Ward, of the College of Dental Surgery:On March 4 the regular course in anatomy for dental
students begins with a laboratory capacity of about 90 and
the number of dental students who are qualified to take
this course is approximately I50. It becomes necessary
again this year, for the last time, for the Dental Faculty to
decide which students may be permitted to take this course
at the regularly scheduled time and which be compelled to
take it in Summer Session. The Dental Faculty has authorized me to renew the request made at the January meeting in 1917 (see proceedings p. 68I) which provided for a
selection of the first group from students with the best
records and a remittance of the Summer Session fee for
those who are compelled to take this course in the summer.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board approved the
recommendation.
A further communication from Dean Ward transmitted
the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Dental
Surgery that for matriculants after the present university
year four years and one summer session be required for
graduation from the College of Dental Surgery from all
who do not present certificates for advance credit covering
the subjects scheduled for the Summer Session. This recom —




a68


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


mendation was laid upon the table for discussion at the
next meeting.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Pharmacy, degrees
were conferred as follows:Pharmaceutical Chemist, as of the Class of I909, Ezra
Joseph Kennedy, Jr.
Graduate in Pharmacy, as of the Class of 1917, Granger
Morris Smiley
On motion of Regent Gore, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Homceopathic Medical School,
the degree of Doctor of Medicine was conferred upon
Frederick J. Cady and Victor William Bergstrom, and the
Certificate of Graduation from the Homceopathic Hospital
'Training School for Nurses was voted to Bessie Marguerite
Keillor and Ada Rea Pardon..On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board approved the
request of-the Executive Board of the Graduate School for
a change in the diploma of the Graduate School, effective
with Commencement of 1918.
Dean Lloyd communicated to the Regents the resignation of University Fellowships by Earl G. Sturdevant and
Elsa T. Schueren, these resignations being effective at the
end of the first semester.
On recommendation of the Executive Board of the
Graduate School, Frieda Cobb, A.B., University of Illinois,
and Wilber E. Brotherton, Jr., A.B., M.S., were appointed
each to a Fellowship in Genetics, made possible by funds
provided by the United States Rubber Company in accordance with conditions outlined at the time leave of absence
was granted to Associate Professor Harley H. Bartlett (see
Proceedings, May, 1917, page 767). The appointments of
Miss Cobb and Mr. Brotherton are for one year beginning
-with January, I918, and carry a stipend of $Ioo per month,
with an additional sum of $50 per month for supplies,
assistance, and other expenses.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the sum of $65 was
-voted to the Graduate School for the use of the editor of
TUniversity Publications, Humanistic Series.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918                        169
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate School,
degrees were voted as follows:MASTER OF ARTS (IN MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION)
John Rutter Kneebone
MASTER OF ARTS
Nelle Keller, A.B., Sweet Brier College
Eugene Etienne Rovillain, A.B., Columbia University
Herbert Nicolaus Schmitt, A.B.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recom —
mendation of the Dean of the Summer Session, appointments to positions already provided for in the Summer
Session budget were made as follows:COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Romlanzce Languages                         HRS.
Professor A. G. Canfield................ 64   $500.00
Professor C. P. Wagner................ 64      500.00
Instructor R. H. Bonilla................. 96  300.00
Instructor J. M. Hernandez.............. 96    300.00
Instructor E. E. Rovillain............... 32  Ioo.oo0
History
Professor W. Notestein................. 64     500.00
Professor J. A. Woodburn............... 64    500.00'
Political Science
Associate Professor R. T. Crane......... 64    400.00
Instructor H. E. Yntema................ 64     200.00
Education
Professor W. H. Pyle................... 64     500.00
Chemistry
Instructor  H. N. Cole................... 96   300.00
(The appointment of Assistant Professor
F. E. Bartell to be cancelled.)




1I7o           FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918
Geology                                       IIRS.
Instructor C. 0. Sauer.................. 96      300.00
Physical Training
Instructor Mary McKee................ 64         200.00
COLLEGES O ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
Drawing
Assistant Professor F. R. Finch....... 96       400.00
Surveying
Assistant Professor H. H. Atwell....... 96       400.00
Engineering Mechanics
Instructor J. A. Van den Broek........ 96        300.00
Instructor E. L. Eriksen................ 32     I00.oo
Instructor R. S. Swinton................ 64      200.00
Civil Engineering
Instructor E. L. Eriksen............... 48       150.00
lMechanical Engineering
Assistant Professor C. E. Wilson....... 8       333.33
Chemical Engineering
Assistant Professor W. P. Wood....... 96         400.00
Instructor C. F. Smart................. 96       300.00.Architecture
Instructor L. A. Makielski............... 32    Ioo.oo
MEDICAL SCHOOL.Anatomy
Instructor W. J. Atwell...............   90    $225.00
Instructor S. R. Guild................... go    225.00
Instructor B. I. Burns................. go      225.00
Bacteriology
Instructor R. L. Novy.................. 90       225.00
_Physiological Chemistry
Instructor W. M. German.............. 90        225.00




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


I7I


P1ha)trmacology                            HRS.
Assistant Professor W. Hale........... 90    300.00
Obstetrics
Instructor L. L. Bottsford.............. 90  225.00
LAW SCHOOL
Professor E. C. Goddard.............. $I25.00 (additional)
(The salary of J. R. Rood to be decreased $I25.00,
namely, to $625.00)
BIOLOGICAL. STATION
Assistant Professor  N. Ellis....................... $400.00
Assistant Professor P. S. Welch.................. $200.00
Marion D. Ellis, Dean of Women, without salary.
Assistant  R. F. H ussey.............................  I00o.
LIBRARY METHODS
Instructor  L. E. W. Benedict...................... $225.00
lEMBALMING AND SANITARY SCIENCI
Associate Professor W. G. Smeaton............... $200.00
(The appointments of Associate Professor W. J.
Hale, and Instructor L. A. Hoag to be cancelled)
ADMINISTRATION
Myra B. Jordan, Dean of Women............... $Ioo.oo
Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD H. KRAUS
A request was received from eight students, endorsed
by Professors H. C. Sadler and H. C. Anderson, and by
Deans /I. E. Cooley and Edward H. Kraus, for an addition to the Summer Session budget of $400 to provide for
a course during the Summer Session of I918 in Internal
Combustion Engines, which would prepare students for
work on the Liberty Motor. It was desired that this work
be given by Assistant Professor A. F. Greiner. On motion
of Regent Hanchett, the Board approved the course if it
could be arranged without increase in the budget.




172


FEBRUAR Y MEETING, 1918


Dean Kraus communicated to the Regents the fact that
the American Association for International Conciliation
was willing to provide for the Summer Session of I918, as
during I916 and 1917, the sum    of $200 for a course in
Latin-American affairs, and Mr. Julio del Toro was recommended to give this course. On motion of Regent Hanchett,
the Board authorized his appointment.
The following communication was received from Registrar Arthur G. Hall:At the meeting of the Deans and Officers of Admission and Administration held February I it was unanimously
voted to ask the Board of Regents to authorize the expenditure of the sum of Six Hundred Dollars ($60oo)
for the purpose of publicity under the supervision of the
President and Deans. It is designed to prepare and distribute to alumni, teachers, and students in high schools
throughout the State and to other schools which are
large feeders to the University, an illustrated bulletin setting forth the importance of the continuation of school
and college work at the present time together with the:
facilities and requirements of this University.
Respectfully submitted,
A. G. HALL
February 14, 1918                 A.. H
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board allowed sucht
sum as might be necessary, but not to exceed $600, for the
specified purpose.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, and in accordance with
the recommendation of the Faculty of the Colleges of
Engineering and Architecture, degrees were conferred as.
follows:BACHELOR O SCIENCEI IN ENGINEERING (CIVII ENGINEERING)
Harold Lafayette Andrus      Donald Cedric McIntyre
Harry James Bill             Roscoe John Mason
Harry Ludwig Weber Bowles    Ralph William Newton
Warner Cotton Brockway       William Henry Price
Gordon Campbell              Raymond Henry Speck
Donald Mitchell Drake        Bernhard August Stenberg
Thomas Hussey Heppeard       Jacob Naphtali Rosenthal
James Russell Hill            Cornelius Van Eenenaam
Lawrence William Lamb




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918


I73


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING (MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING)
Herbert Douglas Aspland       William Austin McKinley
Lloyd Ivan Birckelbow         Alfred George Morency
Archibald Francis Campbell    Edwin Kenneth Purchase
Edwin Ray Hazen, A.B.         Paul Bowdish Taylor
Leslie Hosner Kintz           Robert Edwin Ewer White,Carlton Dietly McKenzie
BACHELOR Of SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING (ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING)
Demetrius John Aslanides      Lansing Wilt Thorns
Adrian Cornelius Roosenraad
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEER-ING (CHEMICAL
ENGINEERING)
Franklin Charles Carter       Roman Ferdinand Geller
Yu Soo Chen                   Franz Perrine Zimmerli
-Earl Clayton Fries
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING  (AERONAUTICAL
ENGINEERING)
Ernest Kelsey Hill
A communication was received from Dean Cooley with
respect to adjustments of salaries in the Engineering Shops,
growing out of the requirements of the Summer Session.
This communication was referred to the Engineering Committee and the Secretary, with power.
The following letter of resignation was received through
Dean Cooley:Owing to the fact that I have the opportunity and desire to enter the service of the Government in the Signal
Corps of the United States Army, I herewith tender my
resignation as Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering at the University, to take effect at the close of the
first semester.
Very respectfully yours,
WILLIAM P. WOOD
On motion of Regent Huibbard, the resignation of Assistant Professor Wood was accepted as tendered.




174         FEBRUARY MEETING, 1918
A communication from Dean Cooley covering fifteen
items was referred to the Executive Committee, with power,
should action be necessary before the next meeting of the
Board.
All of the above actions of the Board were by unanimous
vote.
On motion, the Board adjourned to April 5, at 9:30
A. M.
SHIRLJY W. SMITH,
Secretary.




APRIL MEETING
UNIVERSITY OE MICHIGAN, )
ANN ARBOR, APRIL 5, 1918. j
The Board met in the Regents' Room at Io:3o A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
Clements, Regent Hanchett, and Regent Gore.    Absent,
Regent Sawyer, who later took his seat, Regent Hubbard,
Regent Murfin, and Superintendent Keeler.
Mr. George Millen and Professor Clyde E. Love, respectively of the County and University Committee for the
sale of the Third Liberty Loan, appeared and asked the Regents to co-operate with the committee by the purchase of
bonds.
Regent Sawyer took his seat.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the minutes of the
meeting of February 2I were approved as submitted to the
members in proof, with corrections on pages 147, I50, I67,
i68, and I73.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board changed the
order of business, as adopted at the meeting of March 25,
1913 (see page 686) to the following order:
i. Approval of minutes of last meeting.
2. Matters not reached or matters referred at previous
meetings.
3. Communications that have been regularly filed for consideration.
4. Matters presented by members, including reports of
committees not made under last head.
5. Communications from President.
The Secretary was directed to notify the members of the
Faculty and others concerned of this change in order.
Regent Sawyer informally reported progress in the
matter of selecting a site for the new University Hospital
unit.




I76


APRIL MEETING, 1918


A communication from     Dean Hinsdale, of the Homoeopathic Medical School, called attention to the provision
that one-tenth of the appropriation by the Legislature of
I917 for hospital building purposes was to be expended for
the Homoeopathic Hospital (see December, I916, Proceedings, page 626), and asked that authority might be given to
proceed with the construction and equipment of an addition to that Hospital, in accordance with plans prepared by
the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds and submitted with the communication, at an estimated cost of $30,490 for the building itself separate from equipment. On
motion of Regent Gore, the following resolution was
adopted:Resolved, That the Buildings and Grounds Committee
be authorized to proceed with the construction of a new
unit for the Homceopathic Hospital, within a limit of $35,doo
for the building and its equipment complete, the expenditure
to be made out of the legislative appropriation of I917.
The following letter and form of agreement were presented by Regent Gore (see page 148):MR. SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
Secretary U. of M.,
Ann Arbor, Mich.
MY DEAR MR. SMITH:I enclose the contracts, unchanged.
Regarding our conversation in connection with the
taxes, I have concluded not to complicate matters by rewriting Mr. Gore's draft. I have expressed myself frankly
to the Regents and all the parties interested that one motive
for deeding the property at this time was the selfish one of
being relieved of the burden of meeting the taxes during the
short period of my sojourn among mortals. As the income
of the property goes to me during that period I, of course,
expect to pay the taxes on the income, according to law,
and am willing to have the papers pass in their present condition with the assurance from the Regents that it is the
understanding that I am to pay no taxes on the property
deeded to the Board.
I am,              Very truly yours,
H. H. HFRBST
Ann Arbor, Mich., April 2, I918




APRIL MEETING, 1918


177


THIS AGREEMENT, Entered into between the REGENTS of the UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, a Corporation, and HARTWIG H. HERBST, of Ann Arbor, Michigan, WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, Hartwig H. Herbst desires that his estate
shall be made to permanently serve the cause of education
and to that end makes conveyance contemporaneous herewith to the University of Michigan of those certain pieces
or parcels of land situate in the City of Ann Arbor, County
of Washtenaw, and State of Michigan, described as follows,
to-wit:
Lots numbered Twenty-nine (29) and Thirty (30), and
the South half of Lot numbered Thirty-two (32), C. T.
Wilmot's Addition to the City of Ann Arbor; also, the East
Forty (40) feet of Lot numbered Thirty-one (31) in said
Addition; also, a parcel of land off the Northwest corner of
Lot Four (4) in Ward's Subdivision, according to the recorded plat of said C. T. Wilmot's Addition and Ward's
Subdivision.
WHERE;AS, This agreement is deemed to be a part and
parcel of said deed of conveyance of even date. herewith,
and its conditions and stipulations to be binding upon the
parties hereto,
Now, Therefore, The said parties covenant and agree
as follows: It is agreed between said parties that Hartwig
H. Herbst shall retain the possession and sole control and
management of said property during the term of his natural
life, and the right to collect and use the rents and all income
derived therefrom and appropriate the same to his own personal use in such manner as said Herbst shall deem fit.
Said Hartwig H. Herbst covenants and agrees to make all
necessary repairs upon said property and to make such other
improvements and outlays upon said property as said Herbst
shall deem best; all such expenditures to be made at the sole
cost and expense of said Herbst; and said Herbst agrees,
at his own expense, to keep said buildings insured in responsible insurance companies against loss by fire in the sum
of at least seventy-five (75%) per cent of the value thereof;
and it is agreed that such care shall be exercised over said
premises and such repairs made thereon as will keep and
maintain said premises in as good condition as they are upon
the signing and delivery of these presents, ordinary wear
and tear excepted.
It is covenanted and agreed that upon the payment by
the Regents of the University to said Hartwig H. Herbst




178              APRIL MEETING, 1918
of an annuity for his maintenance and support, the amount
whereof to be agreed upon between said parties, then, in
that event, the Regents may take over the possession, control and management of said property, collect all rentals,
make all repairs thereon without any accounting whatever
to said Hartwig H. Herbst.
It is agreed and understood that Mary L. Herbst is the
lawful and undivorced wife of Hartwig H. Herbst, and that
in the event said Mary L. Herbst shall survive her said
husband, the Regents of the University hereby agree to pay,
and to pay only to the lawful and undivorced wife of said
Hartwig H. Herbst, during her lifetime, out of the income
derived from said property, an annuity of Eleven Hundred
($I,Ioo) Dollars per year, payable in equal quarterly installments of Two Hundred Seventy-five ($275) Dollars each;
the first payment thereof to be made on the first secular
day of the third calendar month following the death of said
Hartwig H. Herbst; and in addition to said annuity, said
Mary L. Herbst shall have and enjoy free of charge during
the period of her natural life, the use and occupancy of the
premises now occupied by said Hartwig H. Herbst and
known and designated as Number 1302 Washtenaw Terrace; and it is covenanted and agreed that the said Regents
shall thereupon, under said deed of conveyance and this contract, enter into the possession, control and management of
all of said property, and shall have the right to collect and
receive all rents and income thereof, except the rents and
income derived from said premises Number I302 Washtenaw Terrace; and said Regents agree to use the rentals and
income from said property in the manner hereinafter specified.
It is further covenanted and agreed that, in the event
of the occupation of said premises, numbered I302 Washtenaw Terrace, by Mary L. Herbst in accordance with this
contract, that in such event, said Mary L. Herbst shall, at
her own expense, make all repairs and necessary outlays
upon said premises numbered I302 Washtenaw Terrace, and
the Regents of the University shall be at no expense on account of the maintenance and up-keep of said premises
numbered I302 Washtenaw Terrace, during the term of the
natural life of said Mary L. Herbst.
It is further covenanted and agreed that when the Regents of the University come into the possession of said
premises, or any part thereof, that said Regents after deducting all outlays for maintenance, repairs.and up-keep of




APRIL MEETING, I918


I79


said premises, shall loan the remainder of said net income
to needy and deserving students of the University ot Michigan; said funds shall be loaned at such times and in such
amounts and to such students as may be determined by the
President, Secretary, and Treasurer of the University acting jointly with the Dean of the particular School or College in which the student making application for such a loan
is entered. A reasonable rate of interest, it is agreed, shall
be charged for the use of said funds.
The students receiving such loans shall execute to said
first party promissory notes, payable at such fixed date as the
borrower may reasonably expect to repay the same, together
with a reasonable rate of interest.
It is further agreed and understood between said parties that while it is the preference of said Hartwig H. Herbst
that said property be held and kept intact in its present condition, if possible, nevertheless, if in the judgment of the
Regents, better results can be obtained by selling and disposing of said property and investing the proceeds in securities, or other income-bearing properties, the said Regents are hereby fully authorized and empowered so to do.
It is further understood and agreed that in the event the
Regents shall, at any time, be unable to utilize all the net income of said property for the uses hereinbefore specified,
such income may be added to and made a part of the principal fund; or said surplus income may be used by the Regents in support of such other worthy University cause or
interest as in the judgment of the Regents may to them
seem best; it is, however, the earnest desire of said Hartwig H. Herbst that all net income derived from said premises shall be loaned, as aforesaid, to needy and deserving
students, and in the event a surplus from said income shall
exist at any time, that said surplus shall be added to and
made a part of the original fund.
It is expressly covenanted and agreed that at no time
shall any part of the principal sum be used; and that said
principal sum shall be held in trust by the Regents for the
uses and purposes herein expressed.
The donation created by these Articles of Agreement
shall be known and designated as the "H. H. HERBST
SCHOLARSHIP LOAN FUND."
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The parties have hereunto
signed the foregoing ARTICLES and affixed their seals on
this     day of -, A. D., I9I8.




I80               APRIL MEETING, 1918
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN,
by...............................................  (SEAL)
its President.
and..............................................  (SEAL)
its Secretary.....................................................  (SE;A L )
~~~..... - ~~~~~~~(SEAL)............................(s.................... (SEAI )
Signed, sealed and delivered in presence of,.................................................
I have read the foregoing instrument and know the
contents thereof, and fully approve of the same....................................................  (SEAL)
STATE OF MICHIGAN,             ss.
WASHTENAW COUNTY. 
On this --  day of --, 1918, before me, a Notary Public in and for said Washtenaw County, personally appeared
Harry B. Hutchins and. Shirley W. Smith, to me known,
personally, who being duly sworn, do say, that they are the
President and Secretary, respectively, of the Regents of
the University of Michigan, and that the seal affixed to said
instrument is the corporate seal of said Corporation, and
that said instrument was signed and sealed in behalf of said
corporation by authority of said Regents of the University
of Michigan, and that the said Harry B. Hutchins and Shirley W. Smith acknowledged said instrument to be the free
act and deed of said Corporation...........................................................
Notary Public, Washtenaw County, Mich.
My commission expires.................
On motion of Regent Gore the Regents accepted the
deed with deep thanks, and the President and Secretary
were authorized to execute the contract submitted by Mr.
Herbst.
On motion of Regent Clements, questions of heat and
light (see page 150) were continued, with power, with the
President and the Superintendent of Grounds.




APRIL MEETING, 1918


I8I


Regent Sawyer reported for the Executive Committee
in the matter of the adminstration of the University Hospital (see page 151) and as a result of this report, on motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board adopted the following
resolution:
Resolved, That Dr. Christopher G. Parnall be appointed
as Medical Superintendent and Director of the University
Hospital, his whole time to be given to the affairs of the
Hospital, with responsibility to the Regents instead of to
the Medical Faculty, with compensation of $4,200 per year
as Medical Superintendent and Director, and with further
compensation at the rate of $I,ooo per year for services in
the planning and the construction of the new Hospital unit,
this appointment to be effective from July I, 1918.
Regent Leland reported for the Committee on Military
Affairs that the committee had recommended a total allowance of $687.78 for the construction of an indoor rifle
range in the Waterman Gymnasium      (see page I5I). On
motion of Regent Leland, this sum was set aside.
Regent Gore reported for the Committee on the Law
School that while Professor E. R. Sunderland had been
offered a larger salary by another law school, he would remain at Michigan for compensation of $5,000 per year beginning with the University year I918-9199, and that the
committee, acting under authority given by the Regents
(see page 152), had promised Professor Sunderland that
compensation at this rate would be paid him.
Regent Gore further reported with respect to the return of Dean Henry M. Bates of the Law School, after a
year's leave of absence at the law school of Harvard University, and filed the following telegram from Professor
Bates:PRESIDENT H. B. HUTCHINS,
University of Michigan.
Will return and work with you all wholeheartedly for
success of University. Please inform Regents Gore and
Murfin and Faculty but avoid newspaper publicity for present.


HENRY M. BATES


Cambridge, Mass., April 5, 1918




I82


APRIL MEETING, I918


On motion of Regent Gore, the Budget Committee was
directed to provide in the budget of I918-I919 for salary of
Mr. Bates, as Dean and Professor, at the rate of $7,ooo
per year. The vote upon this question was as follows:aye, Regent Sawyer, Regent Clements, Regent Hanchett,
and Regent Gore. Not voting, Regent Leland and Regent
Beal.
The Secretary reported in the matter of the questionnaire received from the Federal Board for Vocational Education (see page 158) that as a result of visits to the University by committees from the Federal Board, a contract
had been prepared and authorized by a mail vote of the Regents, all members of the Board voting in favor of it with
the exception of Regent Hanchett, who had been away
from home and had not voted.   (Regent Hanchett stated
that he desired his vote to be recorded in favor of such contract.)  The contract in question called for the training of
approximately 200 enlisted men to be sent to the University
by the War Department, the rate to be paid by the Government under this contract for a period of sixty-days' training and lodging and subsistence being $2.18 per day per man.
The Government had requested modification of this contract in certain particulars including a change in rate to $2
per man per day. The Secretary reported that after authorization by Regent Beal and Regent Sawyer, of the Executive Committee, during the President's absence in California, he had executed the contract as desired by the War
Department, in the following form:THIS AGREEMENT, made this 29th day of March,
in the year 1918, by and between the United States of America, represented by the War Department Committee on Education and Special Training appointed pursuant to General
orders, No. 15-1918 (hereinafter called the War Department) and The Regents of the University of Michigan, a
constitutional corporation of the State of Michigan, having
its principal place of business at Ann Arbor, in said State,
hereinafter called the Institution, WITNESSETH:
FIRST: The Institution agrees to furnish trade and
technical instruction for a period of two months beginning
on or about ten days after receipt of notice from the War




APRIL MEETING, 1918


I83


Department of the signing of this contract, to men of the
United States Army who may be assigned to it for such
instruction by the War Department in the courses of training specified below. It is contemplated that the number of
men to be instructed will be approximately two hundred, distributed approximately as follows:
NAME OS COURSE                     NUMBER O,MEN
Course  in  Gas Engines............................ 50  men
Course for Machinists........................... 34 men
Course for Gunsmiths........................... 50 men
Course  for Blacksmiths........................... 25  men
Course  for  Carpenters........................... 40  men
SECOND: The Institution further agrees:
(a) To conduct the 'courses so far as possible in conformity
with the syllabi, manuals, and instructions governing
these courses to be issued by the War Department or
by the Federal Board for Vocational Education, acting for this purpose as an agent of the War Department.
(b) To furnish or cause to be furnished such suitable workrooms and classroom space and equipment, including
power, heat, and light, and such working tools, materials, supplies and appliances as may be necessary
for the instruction above referred to, except equipment which may be delivered to the Institution by the
War Department for use in instruction.
(c) To procure the services of competent instructors for
these courses in the approximate proportion of one
instructor to twenty men: the number of instructors
to be based on the number of men to be trained as
above set forth; all instructors for these courses to
be appointed subject to the approval of the War Department and to be withdrawn from this duty upon
request to this effect from the War Department.
(d) To send at the request and option of the War Department not over three instructors for a period not to
exceed one week for special instruction at any Army
school and to pay for their time, but not transportation or subsistence or lodging in connection with such
instruction.




184


APRIL MEETING, 1918


(e) To provide such administrative supervision of the instructors and men as is customary in conducting
courses of this type; to keep such records of attendance and progress as may be' later prescribed; to exclude from the courses all persons not assigned thereto by the War Department or its authorized representatives.
(f) So far as reasonably possible to provide or secure
grounds and facilities for the training of the men in
drill and tactics.
(g) To co-operate closely with the War Department and its
authorized representatives in all measures they may
take for supervision, inspection and development of
methods of training, including visits to class-rooms
and workrooms, personal conferences with and direction of instructors, frequent meetings of groups of
instructors, and the like; and to co-operate closely
with officers of the Army in all measures they may
take for the military training, discipline and general
welfare of the men.
(h) To prepare monthly a report in form prescribed and
furnished by the War Department or in form as near
as possible thereto, covering all operations of the
month preceding, and to mail this report, if possible,
on or before the Ioth of each month to the War Department.
THIRD: That the Institution further agrees to provide or procure meals for such men of a quantity and quality equivalent to standard army rations during the period
of the training.
FOURTH: That the Institution further agrees to provide or procure suitable lodging, bath, and toilet facilities as
approved in advance by officers of the War Department,
during the period of their training, provided that the War
Department, shall furnish the following: cots, bed sacks,
blankets, and all other personal equipment and service such
as clothing and towels. Required laundry service and any
janitor or orderly service, or any -medical service required
shall be furnished by or at the expense of the War Department. In any cases where request is made by the medical
officer of the Government for hospital service for men during their period of training the Institution will furnish such
hospital service in its hospitals at the regular rates per day
charged to citizens of the State of Michigan.




APRIL MEETING, 1918


i85


FIFTH: That the War Department IN CONSIDERATION OF THE FOREGOING Agrees to pay to the Institution in thirty days or less after receipt of the reports required under paragraph two (h) hereof the sum of TWO
DOLLARS ($2.00) per day, on an agreed basis of not less
than sixty days for the period of instruction for each man
during the period of his instruction.
This contract may be renewed for further periods of
sixty days at the option and upon the agreement of the
parties hereto.
FOR THE UNITED STATES
Secretary, Committee on Education and
Special Training.
WITNESS
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN
By SIIIRLY W. SMITH,
Secretary.
WITNESS
JOHN R. EVFINGVR
HERMAN GREVE
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Secretary's signature to this contractwas approved and confirmed, and authority was given to the proper University officials to make
sub-contracts and to make purchases and otherwise to take
such action as might be necessary to carry out the contract
with the Government.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board approved the
recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Dental
Surgery that for matriculants of that College after the present University year, four years and one Summer Session
be required for graduation from all who do not present a
certificate for advanced credit covering the equivalent of
the Summer Session schedule (see page I67).
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board added the
sum of $400 to the budget of the Summer Session to provide for a course in internal combustion engines, this course
to be given by Assistant Professor Greiner. The giving of
this course is conditioned upon its election by at least twelve
students.




I86


APRIL MEETING, 1918


The Secretary presented a communication from the University of Michigan Club of Detroit transmitting remarks
made by Mr. Norman Hackett at a meeting of that 'Club,
December 6, I917, urging the development of University
courses in the general field of dramatics. On motion of Regent Sawyer, this communication was received and filed,
and the Secretary was directed in making reply to communicate to the Detroit University of Michigan Club information concerning work of this sort already being carried on
in the University.
A letter from Mr. J. G. Glenn, of Detroit, with respect
to the possibility of sale by the University of the property
at 799-815 Woodward Avenue (now covered by the socalled "George lease"), was, on motion of Regent Sawyer,
referred to Regent Leland for negotiation with Mr. Glenn.
On motion of Regent Beal, leave of absence for I9I8 -I9I9 was granted to Miss Alice Evans, Director of Physical Education for Women, in order to enable her to enter
the United States Surgeon General's Office, for reconstruction work, with official title of Medical Aid. This leave is
granted under the general terms of the resolution on page
788 of the preceding volume of the Regents' Proceedings.
To take Miss Evans's work Miss Marion Wood was appointed Acting Director of Physical Education for Women
for the year I918-I919, with salary of $1,400 for the year;
Miss Marion Dawley was appointed Acting First Assistant for the same period with salary of $I,Ioo; and $250
was made available for the hiring of an office assistant at
the rate of 25 cents per hour for such time as may be required but not in excess of I,000 hours total.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board granted the request of Dr. Calvin H. Kauffman, Assistant Professor of
Botany, for continuation of his leave, without salary,
through the year I918-I9I9, in order to enable him to continue his work for the United States Department of Agriculture.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board voted that
when the completion of the main Library structure should
make it possible to cease using the rooms in the west stacks
for the present temporary purposes, the second floor rooms




APRIL MEETING, 1918


I87


in the west stacks should be set aside for the exhibition, use,
and storage, of rare and valuable books, prints, etc.
A request was received from Professor Francis W. Kelsey and others for the placing of the University's coin collection in the reserve book room of the General Library.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board authorized the
storage of the coin collection in the Library, but on account
of lack of room this permission was necessarily limited to
storage only, without display or access for study. It is expected that when the Library is finally completed proper
quarters for display and study of the coin collection will be
provided.
A request was received through the Senate Council for
permission to make use of the University's purchasing
power for the benefit of a proposed co-operative association
of members of the University Faculty. Without further assurance that the acceptance of the principle involved would
not in any way involve the University in expense or embarrassment, the Regents felt constrained to decline this request. On motion of Regent Sawyer, the petition was laid
upon the table.
The Secretary presented a bill from Stratton and Von
Schneider, Architects, for professional services in "making
general lay-out for University of Michigan Hospitals,"
$I,500. (See November, I915, Proceedings, pages 297 and
298, and July, I916, Proceedings, page 489.) On motion
of Regent Clements, this bill was referred to the Executive
Committee for investigation and recommendation.
At this point the Board adjourned for lunch.




i88             APRIL. MEETING, 1918
AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock, with the' same members in attendance as at the morning session.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board extended the
leave of absence of F. L. D. Goodrich, Reference Librarian,
from May I to June 30, I918. The terms of this extension
are the same as those of the original leave (see page 77).
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board adopted the following resolution:Resolved, That the President be requested to appoint
a committee of three to consider the entire question of the
training of teachers at this University, and to report its
findings and recommendations to the Regents at some subsequent meeting.
The President appointed upon this committee Regent
Beal, Regent Gore, and Superintendent Keeler.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board directed that
students in the Graduate School who by reason of the fact
that they are teaching in the University are permitted to
spread their work for a given degree over more than a
single year, upon the payment of a single year's fee only
(see February, I908, page 228), are not eligible to the
Health Service privileges beyond the single year during
which the annual fee was actually paid.
Reports were presented by the Executive Committee as
follows, and, on motion by Regent Leland, all these reports were accepted and approved by the Board, with a
slight change in the resolution granting leave of absence to
Professor Ewald A. Boucke, the resolution as printed being
in the form in which it was approved by the Board:To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTIEMEN:
The Executive Committee held a meeting in Ann Arbor,
March 5, I918, at which the following actions were taken,
which are now submitted with the request for the approval
and confirmation by the whole Board.
I. Dean Effinger appeared and stated that with the natural shrinkage in the staffs of the various departments of




APRIL MEETING, 1918


i89


the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, due to resignations to enter war work or for other purposes, the budget of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts for
I,98-I919 would be reduced from the total as adopted at the
beginning of 1917-1918 by from $40,000 to $45,000. He did
not recommend action by the Executive Committee looking
toward the further reduction of any departments with the
exception of the Department of German, in which elections
had fallen off and on the basis of careful estimates would
decrease still further to such an extent that it was believed
by himself and the head of the German Department that
three men could carry the work in that Department for I9I8 -1919.
2. The following letter was received from Professor
Ewald A. Boucke transmitted through Professor Max
Winkler:PROFESSOR MAX WINKLER,
Hegd of the German Department.
MY DEAR PROFESSOR WINKLErR:Will you have the kindness to ask the authorities of
this Institution in my behalf for leave of absence beginning with the next college year and continuing thru
the period of the duration of this war. I'would furthermore be greatly obliged to you if you would express
at the proper place my sincere appreciation of the generous and kindly spirit with which my case has been
handled under these trying circumstances.
Very sincerely yours,
EWALD A. BOUCKE
Ann Arbor, Mich., Feb. 25, I918
Your Committee adopted the following resolution:
Resolved, That Professor Ewald A. Boucke be given an indefinite leave of absence without salary from
and after the beginning of the next academic year.
3. Dean FEfinger stated that Assistant Professor John
W. Scholl, who has' divided his time between the German
and French Departments this year, would be expected to
give practically all of his time to the French Department
during I918-I919.
4. In accordance with your authority given at the meeting of February 21 (see page I49) and in order to meet the
necessity of reducing the staff of the German Department




I9o


APRIL MEETING, 1918


to the actual requirements of students in German, the following resolution was adopted with respect to the remaining members of the present German staff, none of whom
has been employed on the so-called "permanent" or "continuing" basis:Resolved, That in view of the fact that elections
in the Department of German have decreased to such an
extent that the material reduction of the present force
is necessary, the following members of the staff of the
Department of German in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts shall be informed at once by the
Secretary of the University that from and after the
beginning of the next academic year their services will
not be required: Assistant Professor Warren W. Florer, Assistant Professor John Dieterle, Instructor Herman J. Weigand, and Instructor Richard O. Ficken.
5. The Secretary called attention to the fact that the
Board had provided (see page 839 of the Proceedings, I914 -1917, and page Io8 present volume) lump sums for the hiring of assistants in the Army Stores Course. Professor
Joseph A. Bursley, who had had charge of these courses,
had named the appointees to the assistantships and had
specified the amounts which they were to receive. With the
acceptance by Professor Bursley of the commission as Major in the Army, the direction of the Army Stores and Ordnance Courses had passed to Captain Enoch T. White, U.
S. A. The Secretary asked for instructions, from your Committee as to the making of appointments of assistants and
fixing the salaries of such assistants. Your Committee voted
that appointments already made by Professor Bursley should
be confirmed and continued from month to month at the
salaries named by Professor Bursley, namely, $75 per month
for the three assistants to date from February I, and that
further appointments or changes in the compensation of the
present appointees would be made only by the Regents on
recommendation of the officer in charge of the course, at
present Captain White.
6. It has appeared necessary, in administering the
Army Stores Courses, to collect from  each man in the
course, in addition to the $I5.oo paid by him to the University proper, the sum of $I5.oo to be used for books, equipment other than that furnished by the government, car-fare
in visiting neighboring cities, and other incidentals. This
collection would be in violation of the Regents' rule against




APRIL MEETING, 1918


I9I


such collections on the part of the Faculty from students,
all payments by students being expected to be made to the
Treasurer direct. In view, however, of the special circumstances in this case, including principally the fact that
the instructors act in their capacity of army officers rather
than as members of the University faculty which they are
not, your Committee voted that the collection above mentioned was not to be regarded as a violation of the general
rule  The transaction is regarded as being between the
student and his instructor, as members of the Army and not
as members of the University staff.
7. At the January meeting of the Board (see pages 128
to I3I) you authorized the increase in the salary of Miss
Gertrude E. Woodard as Secretary of the Bureau of Municipal Research to $2,000, to date from such time as the arrangement proposed by Professor Robert T. Crane in his
communication to that meeting might be completed. The
arrangement proposed has been completed and the Bureau
of Municipal Research in the Department of Political Science now becomes the headquarters of the general "Research Conference," and Miss Woodard's new, full-time
duties begin as of March I, I918. As it appears that Miss
Woodard cannot herself attend to all of the details of the
new office, and as she has expressed a willingness to provide
at her own expense the help which would be necessary, and
as this arrangement is desired by Professor Crane and also
by Professor Goddard, in order that Miss Woodard may be
responsible for certain work in connection with the Laza Review in addition to her work for the Research Conference,
your Committee authorized Miss Woodard to employ at her
own expense such additional help as she might desire.
8. Dean Cooley appeared and discussed the matters relating to the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture, referred to your Committee for action at the last meeting of
the Board (see page I74). We took the following actions:
Sa. In view of the reorganization in Chemical Engineering made necessary by the departure of Professor William P. Wood and Messrs. Robert S. Archer, Clifford Bottje.
R. F. Geller, and A. W. Laird, the following changes were
made to date from the beginning of the second semester:C. F. Smart, Instructor, was advanced to an assistant professorship at $I,700 per year, vice Assistant Professor W. P. Wood.




I92


APRIL MEETING, 1918


Franz P. Zimmerli, Student Assistant at $200, was
advanced to an instructorship at $1,200 per year, vice
Mr. R. S. Archer.
A. F. Wendler, Student Assistant at $250, was made
Teaching Assistant at $600 per year to relieve Mr. Smart
of certain laboratory work and to assist Professor Badger, who himself takes over certain portions of Mr.
Smart's work.
The following student assistants were appointed at the
annual rate specified:H. R. Snow.............. $250 per annum
H. M. Cherry............ 200 per annum
T. C. Simpson............ 150 per annum
S. T. Pratt............... I50 per annum
S. N. Schnitz............ oo per annum
A tabular statement of the salaries per year for the first
semester and those proposed for the second semester in the
Department of Chemical Engineering shows a saving at the
rate of $1,050 per year as follows:ORIGINAL SALARY PER YEAR      PROPOSED SALARY PER YEAR
ARRANGEMENT FIRST            ARRANGEMENT SECOND
SEMESTER                     SEMESTER
W. P. Wood..........$I700    C. F. Smart.........$1700
R. S. Archer........ I200   F. P. Zimmerli....... I200
C. F. Smart......... I200   A. F. Wendler....... 600
F. P. Zimmerli...... 200    T. C. Simpson....... I50
A. F. Wendler........ 250    S. T. Pratt.......... I50
C. J. Bottje........... 550  H. M. Cherry........  200
R. F. Geller......... Ioo   H. R. Snow......... 250
A. W. Laird......... 200     S. N. Schnitz........ I00
$5400                        $4350
8b. We accepted the resignation of Perry A. Fellows,
Instructor in Civil Engineering, as of the close of the first
semester, to enable him to accept the position of Plant Superintendent for Frederick Stearns and Company of Detroit
at a greatly increased salary. To succeed Mr. Fellows we
appointed Mr. Glenn L. Alt as Instructor in Civil Engineering for the second semester with salary at the rate of $I,300
per year.
The resignation of Roscoe G. Gore, as Instructor in
Civil Engineering to take effect March I5 at the close of the
Highway Short Course, was accepted in order to allow Mr.
Gore to go into other work.




APRIL MEETING, 1918


I93


Leave of absence was granted to Professor William C.
Hoad in order that he might take up duties under his appointment as Major in the Sanitary Corps of the National
Army. This leave was effective with the beginning of the
second semester and is under the resolution adopted by the
Regents last June (see page 788) providing for the payment
of the difference between the University salary and the
Army salary.
Associate Professor Arthur J. Decker was promoted to
be Professor of Sanitary Engineering at $2,500 per year
beginning with the second semester. This appointment makes
an increase of $ioo per annum in Professor Decker's compensation. Professor Decker's fitness for the promotion is
unquestioned.
Walter C. Drury, who has been Teaching Assistant in
Civil Engineering at the rate of $60 per month for ten
months' service was raised to the position of Instructor in
Sanitary Engineering for the second semester with salary
at $1,400 per year.
Frank J. Kortick, now Student Assistant in Civil Engineering. was given increased duties for the second semester
with a corresponding increase in compensation at the rate
of $250 for the semester.
The compensation of E. F. Boyd, full time laboratory
assistant in the Highway Laboratory, was increased from
$720 to $96o per year on the twelve-months' basis to date
from March I.
A tabular statement of the salaries per year for the first
semester and those for the second semester under the above
arrangement shows a saving at the rate of $2,460 per year
in accordance with the following tabulation:ORIGINAL SALARY PER YEAR     PROPOSED SALARY PER YEAR
ARRANGEMENT FIRST            ARRANGEMENT SECOND
SEMESTER                     SEMESTER
W. C. Hoad.........$3500    W. C. Hoad, on leave$ 500
A. J. Decker......... 2400  A. J. Decker......... 2500
P. A. Fellows....... I300   W. C. Drury........ 1400
R. C. Gore.......... goo    G. L. Alt............ 300
W. R. Drury....... 600  F. J. Kortick........ 450
F. J. Kortick........  I50  E. F. Boyd.......... 960
E. F. Boyd.......... 720
$9570                        $7110




194


APRIL MEETING, 1918


Sc. To take the place of Mr. William F. Gerhardt, Instructor in Aeronautical Engineering, whose appointment
was for the first semester only and who now leaves for war
work, we appointed Walter Austin Maynard, a senior marine engineer, as Teaching Assistant in Aeronautical Engineering with compensation at the rate of $450 per year.
8d. We authorized a leave of absence to William Telfer, Instructor in the Forge Shop, should he, as seems likely, be called into army service in the Ordnance Department,
this leave to be on the basis of a payment by the University
to him of any difference in salary between his compensation
in the. Army and that paid by the University, namely, $I,400
per year. Mr. Telfer was a man whom Dean Cooley particularly desired to have return in case he should leave the
University and this action is on that basis.
9. In accordance with circumstances brought out the
following resolution was adopted:Resolved, That in view of the reduced elections in
the Department of Mathematics in the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture and the consequent necessity
for reduction in the present force, Dean Cooley be requested to notify Mr. Walter Wolleben Kuestermann,
Instructor in Mathematics, that from and after the beginning of the next academic year his services will not
be required.
Io. The Secretary asked for instructions with respect
to payment of University salaries to Professor Reuben Peterson and Professor Joseph A. Bursley, who have received
commissions as Majors in the National Army. Your Committee directed that as Major Peterson was continuing to
perform his duties both as Professor in the Medical School
and as Medical Director of the University Hospital, his University salary should continue until further notice, and that
as Major Bursley's duties terminated with the close of the
first semester, his salary as Professor of Mechanical Engineering should be terminated from that date.
11. The Secretary presented the following letter from
Professor Van Zwaluwenburg of the Department of Roentgenology:
SECRETARY S. W. SMITH,
Campus.
MY DEAR MR. SMITH:
I have been approached by Dr. Vanderslice, the
Medical Director of the Michigan Anti-Tuberculosis




APRIL MEETING, 1918                      195
Society, for arrangements by which he can have individuals, discharged from Camp Custer with the diagnosis of tuberculosis, examined in our laboratory. The
majority of these patients probably will be financially
able to pay our ordinary fee ($4.00). Dr. Vanderslice
wishes to assume the obligation for such as are unable
to pay this fee, but the funds of the Tuberculosis Society are necessarily limited and he asked me if we
would make the same arrangements as we have made
with the Adjutant General in the matter of the Medical
Advisory Board, namely, we charge for materials only
($2.00), the University donating what virtually amounts
to the overhead. As you know, we are charging the Medical Advisory Board two dollars for examination. I think
we might extend the Society the same courtesy and I
accordingly ask that I be authorized to make the charge
on that basis.
Yours sincerely,
JAMES G. VAN ZWAIUWENBURG
Ann Arbor, March 4, 1918
It was the view of your Committee, and we gave instructions accordingly, that the Department of Roentgenology be authorized to make the charge of $2.00 only, as
suggested by Dr. Van Zwaluwenburg, this being the estimated cost of material.
J2. In putting into effect the courses in Food Conservation, which had been arranged at the request of the National Food Administration, it is believed to be necessary
to provide expenses of $250 as follows:
For an assistant for the balance of the semester.. $Ioo
For extra laboratory equipment.................. Ioo
For stenographic and mimeographic work....... 50
As Professor Novy suggested that this amount might be
taken from the unexpended salary originally voted for Mr.
W. Levin, who left for war work, and in view of the necessity of this work, your Committee authorized the transfer
of $250 for this purpose. We further added the duties of
the assistantship above mentioned to the duties of Miss Sue
Hamilton, already appointed as part time Sanitary Inspector
for the University Health Service, with an addition to her
salary of $25 for each of the months of March, April, May,
and June, making up the total of $Ioo.
13. We granted the request of Richard D. Smith, a
former student in the College of Engineering, now a mem



I96


APRIL MEETING, 1918


ber of the Naval. Military Service, that during such time as
he had available he might be permitted to receive instruction
in a course in Navigation given by Professor Curtiss of the
Department of Astronomy. This case seemed to be an exception for which no general rule had been provided and we
felt that the request could be granted, and we did grant it,
without precedent.
I4. Professor Reighard, in a communication addressed
to the Secretary, suggested the possibility of turning over
to the Navy Department of the Federal Government a number of binocular field glasses. As these glasses are quite valuable, costing from $20 to $35 per pair, and could not be
replaced at this time for much more than this, and would
ultimately have to be replaced, we felt that it was not wise
or necessary at this time to tender them to the Federal
Government.
I5. There was presented to your Committee, through
Professor Ziwet and Dean Cooley, the resignation of Mr.
Granville D. Jones as Instructor in Mathematics. As Mr.
Jones desired to take up work in the Ordnance Training
School in preparation for war service and as the work of
the Department could be carried without him, we felt justified in accepting his resignation and did accept it.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
WALTER H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
March 6, 1918                JUNIUS E. BEAL
To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTLMEN:At a meeting of your Executive Committee held March
I2, I9i8, the following communication, addressed to President Hutchins, was considered:In accordance with your approval, I organized an
extension credit course, History I2A, in Jackson, this
course to be conducted by Professor Frayer.   The
classes will meet for two hours every Wednesday evening during the semester.
The expense of conducting this course will be $300.
The number who enrolled and paid their fees at the initial meeting of the class was fifty, thus giving an income from this source of $400. These fees were collected by Treasurer Campbell and placed in the treasury
of the University.




APRIL MEETING, 1918


I97


I am writing to ask you to take such steps as may
be necessary to have the Executive Committee authorize the course so that Professor Frayer's name may be
placed on our Extension pay roll. The fee which he is
to receive for conducting the class is $300.
Yours sincerely,
W. D. HENDERSON,
March II, 1918                            Director
Professor Henderson stated that the first meeting of the
course was held on February 27, 1918. However, it normally began February I3, but the fuel situation in Jackson made
it necessary to postpone the opening for two weeks. The
class will meet sixteen times during the semester, the session
running for two hours each meeting.
Your Committee authorized the organization of this
course, in accordance with the conditions stated above, and
approved the appointment of Professor William A. Frayer
as instructor, his appointment to date from the beginning of
the second semester of the present University year with
compensation of $300 for the semester's work. This sum
is to be paid out of the fees received from the members of
the class.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALYER H. SAWYER
March 12, 1918               H. B. HUTCHINS
To the Regents of the University of 2Michigan.
GErNTLEMEN:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held March I4,.
1918, accepted the resignation of Dr. A. D. Prangen as Instructor in Refraction, the same to date from February 13,
ig98. At the same meeting your Committee also appointed
as Instructor in Refraction, to succeed Dr. Prangen, Dr.
Morton E. Brownell, at the same salary paid to Dr. Prangen,
this appointment to date from February 13, 1918. Attached
is a communication from the Secretary of the Medical
School asking for this action and explaining its necessity.
Your Committee requests that its action be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
WALTI;R H. SAWYER
H. B. HUTCHINS
March 14, I918               JuNIUS E. BEAI,




I98


APRIL MEETING, 1918


To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEN:At a meeting of your Executive Committee held March
15, I918, Dr. Loree of the Department of Genito-Urinary
Surgery strongly urged permission to use approximately
$350 out of salaries saved in that Department for the purchase.of an operating cystoscope, at a cost of about $225,
and a diagnostic cystoscope, at a cost of about $I25. There
is only one diagnostic cystoscope in the Surgery Department, and when this is out of commission, as in fact it was
at the time of our meeting when it was in New York for
repairs, the diagnostic work of the Department and the interests of patients suffer.
The University Hospital has never had an operating
cystoscope. It was the opinion of your Committee, relying
especially upon the advice of Regent Sawyer, that these instruments were necessary and we felt the purchase of this
equipment, which is more or less permanent, should be allowed. The Committee accordingly authorized the transfer
of the use of the money as requested and ask that our action
may be confirmed by the full Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BEAT,
WALTER H. SAWYER
March I8, I918
To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEN:At a meeting of your Executive Committee held March
I5, I918, the following communication was received from
Professor Novy:PRESIDENT H. B. HUTCHINS.
DEAR MR. HUTCHINS:The absence of Assistant Professor DeKruif in
war service has necessitated the appointment of a temporary substitute. From December Io to March II, the
place was filled by Mr. Arnold H. Eggerth but he has
now left for the training camp at Fort Oglethorpe.
It is not possible to get a man to fill in the remaining time and inasmuch as we have at present the largest
laboratory class in Bacteriology in our history, it will
mean unusual demands upon the remaining assistants.




APRIL MEETING, 1918


199


Under the circumstances I would recommend that
the unused portion of Dr. DeKruif's salary be divided
equally between the three assistants, the extra service
being from March ii to June 30. The names of the assistants are:
Jesse L. Boliman...............salary at present $600
Wm. M. German................salary at present 600
Robert L. Novy.................salary at present 600
I have written to this effect to Mr. Secretary Smith
and he advises per letter of March 12, copy enclosed,
that the amount of salary unexpended is $624.54, and
further that he has no authority in the matter and suggests that my communication be addressed to you for
the Executive Committee for early action.
Very truly yours,
F. G. NovY
March 14, 1918
Under the circumstances your Committee took the view
that the work left by the absence respectively of Dr. DeKruif and Mr. Arnold H. Eggerth should be taken care of
in the manner urged by Dr. Novy, and we therefore authorized the distribution of these duties equally between Messrs.
Bollman, German, and Novy with increase in the salary of
each by a total of $208.I8 for the remainder of the semester
from March ii. We ask that our action be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BEAT,
WALTER H. SAWYER
March 18, I918
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Mrs. Louise Stock Cook
was elected to membership in the Board of Governors of
the Martha Cook Building for the three-year term beginning January I, I918.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board accepted the
resignation of Dr. George E. Fahr as Instructor in Internal
MVedicine, to take effect March 31, I918, to enable him to
carry on certain assigned work for the Surgeon General of
the Army.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board transferred the
sum of $123 from the salary account of the Department of




200


APRIL MEETING, 1918


Internal Medicine, out of the unexpended balance of the
salary of Dr. Fahr, resigned, to the equipment account of
the Internal Medicine Department. It is understood that
this sum will be used for the purchase of a certain needed
piece of apparatus.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the unexpended balance
($206.90) of the salary of Dr. George D. Treadgold, Instructor in Internal Medicine, resigned as of February I,
was transferred to the current expense account of the Department of Internal Medicine for the expenses of Dr.
Cowie's work in that department.
A communication was received from the Michigan State
Nurses' Association asking the Regents to establish a department of public health and community nursing. On motion of Regent Sawyer, this question was referred to the
Medical Committee, with power.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board declined to request the Budget Committee to insert a sum of $600 in the
budget for I9I8-I9I9 to provide additional assistance for
the Department of Roentgenology.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Raymond J. Nutting was
appointed Demonstrator in Ophthalmology in the Medical
School, vice Morton E. Brownell, promoted, to date from
February 13, 19I8.
Regent Sawyer was excused.
The President presented a letter, without date, from M\r.
Richard H. Webber, of Detroit, executor of the will of the
late Professor Richard Hudson, transmitting a check for
$48,750, making up the balance of the total bequest of Professor Hudson to the University of $75,000, for the endowment of a professorship in history. The President stated
that a later communcation from Mr. Webber had transmitted the sum of $3,067.87, interest. On motion of Regent
Gore, the Board authorized the President to sign the official receipt requested by the executor.
The Secretary presented a communication from Kinnane & Black, attorneys, of Bay City, Michigan, petitioning the Regents to pay the MacKinnon Boiler and Machine
Company, clients of Kinnane & Black, the sum of $440.04,
the amount of taxes paid by the MacKinnon Boiler and Machine Company on Blocks 4, 5, 6, and 7 of C. A. Kent's ad



APRIL MEETING, 1918


201


dition to Bay City, Michigan, purchased by Kinnane &
Black on account of the MacKinnon Boiler and Machine
Company from the Regents under a warranty deed. The
taxes in question had not been assessed against the property
at the date of the deed. The MacKinnon Boiler'and Machine Company had carried their endeavor to have the assessment of taxes set aside to the Supreme Court, which
had decided against that Company, as reported in the
Northwestern Reporter, Volume I65, No. 6, of January
I8, I918, pages 771-773. The MacKinnon Boiler and Machine Company thereupon through attorneys appealed to the
Regents to reimburse that Company. The Secretary submitted with this petition an opinon from Cavanaugh & Burke,
attorneys of the Board, in which the attorneys cite the case
of Jacobs vs. The Union Trust Company, 155 Michigan,
283, wherein the Court held: "We are of the opinion that as
between a vendor and a vendee of land, in the absence of
express statute provision, a lien upon the land for unpaid
taxes does not exist until the amount thereof is ascertained
and has become a charge which may be discharged by payment." Acting upon this advice the Regents instructed the
Secretary to notify Kinnane & Black, attorneys for the MacKinnon Company, that the Regents disclaimed liability in
the matter of the above-mentioned taxes. The opinion of
Cavanaugh & Burke contained the following, recorded here
for guidance should similar circumstances arise in the future:
From our construction of the language of the majority
opinion in the McKinnon case, it appears that all property
held by the Regents and used for governmental purposes
of the University, is exempt not only from general taxation,
but from local assessment as well, except property which is
not being used for the governmental purposes of the University. This latter class while exempt from general taxation, appears to be subject to local assessment for public improvements.... It would appear that the inference is that
if the property in question had not been vacant and unimproved and had been capable of producing an income to be
used in the governmental functions of the University, a different rule would apply, to-wit: the rule that such property
would be exempt.




202


APRIL MEETING, 1918


On motion of Regent Gore, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Law School, degrees were conferred as follows:JURIS DOCTOR
Harry J. Connine, A.B.
Harrison Logan McCarthy, A.B., Mount Union College
BACHELOR Or LAWS
Robert Moffat Allan
Edward Clarence Butler
Marion Scribner Harlan
Avery Knowles Jones
Thurman Lovejoy McCormick
James Howard Ready, as of the class of 1907
Herbert Blaine Rudolph, A.B., University of South Dakota
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, diplomas and teacher's diplomas were voted
as follows:
BACIELOR OR ARTS
Dona Cecelia Boyle (as of the class of 1917)
Robert Charles Loomis
Leroy Deforrest Powell
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE
Charles Frederic Roche (as of the class of I917)
BACHELOR Or SCIENCE (IN FORErSTRY)
Lee Peter Brown (as of the class of 1917)
Kenyon Hotchkiss Case
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN CHEMISTRY)
George Frederick Smith
TEACHER'S DIPLOMAS
Dona Cecelia Boyle
Grace Elizabeth Koons
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the following appointments and changes in the teaching staff for the Summer
Session of 1918, all of which are provided for in the budget, were made:



APRIL MEETING, 1918


203


COLIEGE OF LITERATURt, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Romance Languages
HRS.
Asst. Prof. W. A. McLaughlin.. 96      $400.00
Instructor E. E. Rovillain....... 64 Additional 200.00
Biological Station
Associate Professor H. A. Gleason.............  50.00
Assistant G. C. Roe........................... 50.00
Library Methods
Lecturer  S. C   N. Bogle........................  9o.oo
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the sum of $750 was
added to the Law School portion of the Summer Session
budget for I918, and Professor W. T. Barbour was appointed to give the courses in contracts and equity during
the Summer Session, with compensation of the sum set
aside. This amount and this appointment had been omitted from the budget as originally submitted, through error.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board referred to the
Buildings and Grounds Committee, with power, the request
of Professor F. N. Scott, head of the Department of Rhetoric, for permission to move the work of this department
from the Science Building back into the permanent quarters of the department in West Hall.
The Secretary communicated to the Regents a letter
from Dr. Cowie stating that Dr. Damon 0. tWalthall had
been absent from duty as Instructor in Charge of the Contagious Disease Hospital from February 20 to March I8,
his absence being due to delayed orders from the War Department to him as a member of the Medical Reserve Corps.
Dr. Cowie recommended that in view of Dr. Walthall's
good work at the Hospital, and of the circumstances of his
absence, he be paid his salary during his absence, particularly as his work had been carried by others without expense to the University. On motion of Regent Beal, the
Board granted this request.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board approved
and confirmed the following appointments made by the
Secretary to positions for which compensations had been
provided in the budget:



~204


APRIL MEETING, 118


Elmer L. Hammond, Assistant in Pharmacy, for the
second semester of the University year I917-I918, with salary of $ioo for the semester.
R. E. Lounsbury, Assistant in Physics, vice Cecil U.
Hughes, resigned, for the second semester of the University year I917-I918, with salary of $I50 for the semester.
Chester B. Slawson, Assistant in Mineralogy, for the
second semester of the University year 1917-1918, with salary of $50 for the semester.
Jessie Metcalf, Assistant in Zoology, vice Theodore
Hubbell, resigned, for the second semester of the University year 1917-1918, with salary at $75 for the semester.
W. Conrad Weltmann, Assistant in Mineralogy, for the
second semester of the University year I917-I918, with salary of $50 for the semester.
P. B. Exelby appointment changed from Second Assistant to First Assistant in Genito-Urinary Surgery, vice Robert H. Baker, resigned, from February I6, I918, with salary
of $900 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Donald C. MacLachlan, Assistant in Geology at $I25
for the second semester, changed to Assistant in Geology at
$I75 for the semester.
Portia Walker, Assistant in Geology, for the second semester of the University year I917-I918, with salary of $50
for the semester.
Glenn C. Forrester, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry,
vice Chester G. Fuss, resigned, for the second semester of
the University year 1917-1918, with salary of $50 for one
semester.
Mrs. Maud Blodgett, Assistant in the Cataloguing Department of the General Library, vice Mary G. Laing, resigned, from February I, 1918, with salary at the rate of
$550 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Ignatius Wojtaszak, Student Assistant in Engineering
Mechanics, vice L. W. Lamb, for the balance of the University year from January I, 1918, with salary at the rate
of $150 per year.
J. L. Schnitz, Student Assistant in Civil Engineering,
vice William H. Price, resigned, for the second semester of
the University year I917-1918, with salary of $75 for the
semester.
Arthur S. Brock, Student Assistant in Drawing, vice
Millis V. Parshall, resigned, for the second semester of the




APRIL MEETING, 1918


205


University year 1917-I918, with salary of $50 for the semester.
R. W. Elliott, Student Assistant in Civil Engineering,
vice James R. Hill, resigned, for the second semester of the
University year I917-1918, with salary of $75 for the semester.
Ellis J. Arnold, Student Assistant in Electrical Engineering, vice LeGrand A. Gaines, Jr., resigned, for the second semester of the University year I917-I918, with salary
of $50 for the semester.
Lester M. Ilgenfritz, Student Assistant in Electrical Engineering, for the second semester of the University year
I917-I918, with salary of $25 for the semester.
Edward B. Featherstone, Student Assistant in Electrical Engineering, vice R. A. Munro, resigned, for the second
semester of the University year 1917-1918, with salary of
$50 for the semester.
Elmer C. Schacht, Student Assistant in Engineering
Mechanics, vice Walter G. Brayer, resigned, for the second
semester of the University year I917-I918, with salary of
$75 for the semester.
Lawrence H. Philipp, Student Assistant in Electrical
Engineering, for the second semester of the University year
I917-I918, with salary of $25 for the semester.
Taeke Beiboer, Student Assistant in Engineering Mechanics at $200 per year, appointment changed to a double
Assistantship with salary at the rate of $400 per year.
Mrs. Granville D. Jones, substitute Stenographer in the
Department of Astronomy, vice Amy G. Scutt, resigned,
from March I, 1918, with salary at the rate of $700 per year,
twelve-months' basis.
Lois L. Speck, Stenographer in the Department of Pathology, vice Lilian A. Perkins, transferred, from February
12, 1918, with salary at the rate of $600 per year, twelvemonths' basis.
Zada Quackenbush, Stenographer in the Department of
Roentgenology, temporary appointment made permanent
from March I, 1918, with salary at the rate of $720 per year,
twelve-months' basis.
Harry Baker, Reader in the Department of Education,
for the second semester of the University year I917-I918,
with salary of $75 for the semester.
J. L. Hayman, Assistant in General Chemistry, vice L.
A. Collen, promoted, for the second semester of the University year I917-I918, without salary.




206               APRIL MEETING, p1918
Lillian A. Perkins, Clerk and Stenographer in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, vice Fredericka
Klingman, transferred, from February 15, 1918, with salary
at the rate of $720 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Nettie A. Cowin, Reader in the Department of Education, for the second semester of the University year I917 -1918, with salary of $Ioo for the semester.
C. W. Clarke, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry, vice
Graham Gleysteen, resigned, for the balance of the second
semester from February 28, I918, with salary of $Ioo for the
semester.
J. L. Hayman, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry, vice
C. W. Clarke, promoted, for the balance of the second semester after February 28, 1918, with salary of $50 for the
semester.
Ray E. Spokes, Assistant in General Chemistry, vice
J. L. Hayman, promoted, for the balance of the second
semester after February 28, I918, without salary.
Elmer H. Wirth, Assistant in Pharmacy, vice E. L.
Hammond, resigned, for the balance of the second semester after March 6, 1918, with salary at the rate of $50 for
the semester.
Clayton W. Huff, Assistant in Physics, vice Robert F.
Paton, resigned, for the balance of the second semester
after March JI, 1918, with salary at the rate of $300 for
the semester.
Herman E. Bozer, Assistant in Pharmacology, for the
second semester of the University year I9I7-I918, with salary of $300 for the semester.
Theophile Raphael, Assistant in Pharmacology, for the
second semester of the University year I917-I918, with salary of $300 for the semester.
Carl E. Roser, Assistant in Pharmacology, vice E. R.
Smith, resigned, for the second semester of the University
year I917-I918, with salary of $300 for the semester.
Lenora C. Miller, Assistant in the Cataloging Department of the General Library, vice Leora L. Miller, resigned,
from March 12, I918, with salary at the rate of $550 per
year, twelve-months' basis.
Ella V. Travis, Stenographer to the Professor of Industrial Education, from March 9, 1918, with beginning salary of 2oc per hour.
Elwood A. Windham, Special Student Assistant for
work as operator in the training class for radio and buzzer




APRIL MEETING, 1918


207


operators, for the second semester of the University year
1917-I918, with salary at the rate of 25c per hour. It is
understood that the appointment is not to run for more
than seventy-five hours.
Charles H. Woodward, Student Assistant in Surveying,
for the second semester of the University year I917-I918,
with salary of $50 for the semester.
Richard F. Weske, Student Assistant in Surveying, for
the second semester of the University year I917-I918, with
salary of $50 for the semester.
Raymond J. Nutting, vice Morton E. Brownell, promoted, for the second semester of the University year I917 -1918, with salary of $250 for the semester.
Mary L. Morse, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry, vice
Glenn C. Forrester, resigned, from March I8, I918, with
salary at the rate of $50 for the semester.
Allan M. McConnell, Student Assistant in Mechanical
Engineering, vice A. L. Clark, resigned, for the balance of
the second semester after March I, I918, with salary at the
rate of $Ioo for the semester.
John A. E. Dahlstrom, Student Assistant in Aeronautics, vice F. G. Healy and H. A. Seeger, for the second semester of the University year I917-I918, with salary of $Ioo
for the semester.
H. H. Chapman, Reader in Economics, with salary at
the rate of $250 per year, resigned under date of March I,
i918.
Jacob Olthoff, Assistant in Physics, vice S. C. Dart,
resigned, from February 27, I9I8, with salary at the rate of
$300 for the semester.
Roy E. Lounsbury, Assistant in Architecture, with salary at the rate of $75 for the semester, resigned under date
of February 9, I918.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following recommendation by the Executive Board of the Graduate School, degrees were conferred as follows:MASTER 0 SCIENCE (IN ENGINEERING)
Martin J. Orbeck, C.E., University of Minnesota
MASTER OE SCIENCE
Jeannette Armstrong, A.B.
Maurice Flower Johnson, B.S.(Eng.), Michigan Agricultural College, C.E., ibid




208


APRIL MEETING, 1918


MASTER OF ARTS
Wyszie Shionyu Chang, A.B.
Mary N. Porter, A.B.
A communication was received from the Secretary relating to the question whether deeds to University property were properly to be filed with the Secretary of State
or were to be retained by the Regents (see page 13I).
Without formal action, the Board left this question in the
hands of Regent Beal.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board referred to the
Finance Committee a communication from    Dean Cooley
with respect to a proposed publication of the register of
alumni of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board laid upon the
table a communication from Dean Cooley and Professor
Emil Lorch with respect to a proposed decrease in the fees
of students in Architecture.
The Board laid upon the table for consideration at the
next meeting Dean Cooley's proposal to lengthen the Summer Session in the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture from eight to twelve weeks.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board approved the
following changes recommended by the Faculty of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture for the programs of
study in Architecture:Architectural History
Omit Course IT, 2 hours.
Courses 12 and 13, now two hours credit, to receive
three hours credit.
Architecture 14, 2 hours, not to be required in Program
III, two hours of Architecture 7a to be substituted
for it.
Law I, two hours, (discontinued) not to be required in
Programs I and III.
Frreihand Dracwiug
In Programs I and II require 12 hours credit instead of
13 and 15 hours respectively.
In Program I, substitute Architecture I9 and 20, 6
hours, for Engineering Mechanics I and 2, 7 hours.




APRIL MEETING, 1918


209


Construction:
Architecture 22, now 3 hours, Masonry, to be "Steel and
Fireproof Construction," same credit, a lecture and
problem course; to be required in Programs I and
II; to be omitted in Program III and the Special
Program.
Architecture 23a and 23b, each 2 hours, Steel and Fireproof Construction, now required in Program I, to
be Architecture 23, 2 hours, a structural design
course in the same subject in both Programs I and
II.
Architecture 26a and 26b, each 2 hours, in Steel and
Fireproof Construction, now required in Program
II, to be Architecture 26 and Architecture 27, each
two hours, on Masonry; to be required in both
Programs I and II.
Physics 2, 4 hours, not to be required in Program I. An
illumination group is to be offered, consisting of Electrical Engineering 2, 4 hours, and Electrical Engineering 7, 2 hours, which those electing will take Physics 2,
4 hours, and drop Business Administration, 3 hours.
Geology I or Mlineralogy I6, 3 hours, now required in Programs I and III, to be required in Program II.
Require I three-hour course in Fine Arts instead of 2
courses in Program II.
Special Program:
In Drawing 4a, require Shades and Shadows only for
I hour credit.
Omit Architecture 22 (old course) three hours, as a requirement.
Recommended as elective 15 hours, as Mathematics,
Mechanics, and Construction: Mathematics IE, 4
hours; Architecture 19, 3 hours, and Architecture
20, 3 hours, Architecture 22 (new course) 3 hours,
and Architecture 23, 2 hours.
Require 8 additional hours in design.
On motion of Regent Leland, following the recomlmendation of the Faculty of the Colleges of Engineering and
Architecture, degrees were conferred as follows:BACHELOR O SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
(CIVIL ENCINEERING)
Harold Ralph Scovill




210             APRIL MEETING, 1918
BACHELOR O0 SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
(MECHANICAL ENGINEERING)
Byron Evans Breckenridge
Norman Henry Ibsen
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
(ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING)
Fritz George Marsteller
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
(CHEMICAL ENGINEERING)
Ralph Edgar McGee
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
(NAVAL ARCHITECTURE AND MARINE ENGINEERING)
Edward Michael Murphy
On motion of Regent Leland, and on condition that the
recommendation could be carried out without addition to
the budget, the Board approved the proposal of the Faculty
of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture to give a
special short course in Naval Architecture, Naval Architecture I-s, principles of buoyancy, flotation, stability, resistance and propulsion, and structural arrangements, from
April I, I9I8, to the end of the second semester.
On motion of Regent Leland, the salary of Arthur C.
Bachrach, Instructor in the Ordnance Stores courses, wa;
increased from $75 per month to Sioo per month, to date
from April I.
The Secretary filed a letter addressed to Professor
Crane, by Mr. Otto Kirchner for the Executive Cominittee of the Governmental Research Conference, accepting
the terms and conditions under which the Regents approved
the establishment at the University of the offices of the Governmental Research Conference (see pages I28-I13).
The following report of the Executive Committee was
filed and on motion of Regent Leland, was accepted ad(d
approved by the Board:To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEN:At a meeting of the Regents held January 17 Dean
Cooley presented schedules for three proposed war courses




APRIL MEETING, 1918                      2
in Naval Training, and the Secretary's records indicate that,
pending the receipt of approval of these courses by the United States Navy Department, no action was taken by the
Regents (see page 136). Under date of February 5 Dean
Cooley Wrote the President as follows:"Referring to my communication of January i6 concerning three naval courses, the outlines of which were
submitted for the approval of the Regents.
"When presented to the Regents they were about to
take favorable action, but suggested the propriety of
waiting until some reply could come from the Navy
Department, my thought being that if the Navy Department did not approve the courses, it would be unnecessary for the Regents to approve them. I also, suggested
to the Regents that this matter be referred to the Executive Committee with power, and this I supposed was
done; but the Secretary informs me that it was not so
recorded.
"In view of this I beg to ask that the matter now be
taken up by the Executive Committee and that the
courses as submitted be approved so that they can be
properly announced and work begin at the opening of
the second semester.
"Before the proposed plan for naval training
courses is published in the Proceedings, I would like to
submit a revision of the third paragraph, entitled 'Eligibility'."
In view of the importance of prompt action, the Executive Committee considered Dean Cooley's request and decided to approve the courses as worked out by the Engineering Faculty and submitted to the Regents at their January meeting. It is understood that a revision of the paragraph entitled "Eligibility" shall be made as Dean Cooley
suggests. It is further understood that the giving of these
courses is not to involve any additional expense to the University. The Committee asks that its action be confirmed'
by the Regents.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WAITER H. SAWYER
February 5, I918


II




212


APRIL MEETING, 1918


On motion of Regent Leland, James E. Chenot and William F. Marsteller were appointed to give instruction in
French to the men in the sixth Ordnance Stores course of
six weeks, from March II, I918, to April 20, 1918, at the
rate of compensation fixed for the previous terms, namely,
$50 to each instructor for the period.
On motion of Regent Leland, the sum of $200 was added to the appropriation of December 2I, 9Ig7 (see page
I07) for the Camp Custer extension traveling expense. It
is expected that this additional appropriation will meet the
expenses of the men going from the Romance Languages
Faculty to give instruction at Camp Custer, until about August I, next.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board referred questions which might arise in connection with the case of
Mary Bancroft vs. the Regents of the University et al to
Regent Gore and Cavanaugh & Burke, attorneys, with
power.
On motion of Regent Clements, the President and Secretary were authorized to sign the necessary blanks for securing money due the University under the Smith-Hughes
Act and the Act of the Legislature of this State of 19I7
collateral to the Federal act mentioned.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board granted the request of Professor Ulrich B. Phillips for a leave of absence
without pay during I9I8-I919, should the war continue.
The President presented a letter from Mr. J. A. Wetmore stating that Mr. Wetmore was sending to the University art gallery the following paintings.H. M. Kitchell (American), title "Evening Glow"
H. F. Hazafelt (European), title "Venetian Interior"
La Boche G. (Italian), title "Street Scene in Verona"
Louis Moeller, N.A. (American), title "Good Advice"
J. F. Kensett, N.A. (American), title "Near Spouting Rock,
Newport, R. I."
Meyer von Bremen (Munich), title "Wash Day"
Craig (American), title "Coming from Pasture"
On motion of Regent Clements, the President was requested to communicate to Mr. Wetmore the thanks of the
Regents for his continued generosity to the University.




APRIL MEETING, 918s


213


On motion of Regent Beal, the thanks of the Board were
voted to the following donors of gifts to the Stearns Musical Collection:To the Allmendinger Music Shop, of Ann Arbor, for a
new mandolin-banj o
To the Austin Organ Company, Mr. B. G. Austin,
President, of Hartford, Conn., for an assortment of structural parts of the organ
To Professor A. A. Stanley for a banjeaurine, and for
a slide cornet made by Berson & Co., of London
On motion of Regent Clements, a vote of thanks was
passed to Mrs. L. M. Cramer, of Ann Arbor, for the following gifts to the University Library:Manuscripts of three addresses by the late Presideit
Angell, delivered on the following occasions:Washington's Birthday Exercises held in University Hall, February 22, 1911
Following President Hutchins's Baccalaureate address, June 21, I914
Dedication of Tablet placed on Mason Hall by the
D. A. R., June 24, I914
Daguerreotype of President Angell at the age of 21
Photograph of President Angell at the age of 32
On motion of Regent Hanchett, and in accordance with
the recommendation of Professor Ruthven. Director of the
Museuml of Zoology, the Board appointed     Mr. Calvin
Goodrich, Editor of the Detroit Journal, to the honorary
position of Associate Curator of Mollusca in the Museum
of Zoology.
'On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board formally accepted, with thanks, the loan and gift made to the Muselr n
of Zoology by the Detroit Museum of Art (see page 125).
The material consists of I3,200 lots of mollusca-the Frederick Stearns Collection-received as a permanent loan, and
twenty table cases received as a gift.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board voted that
the number of Fellowships offered in the Graduate School
next year should be as follows:-Five at $500 each, and
fifteen at $300 each, making a total of $7,000 for Fellow



214


APRIL MEETING, 1918


ships instead of $8,500 as during the present year and L'ie
several years immediately preceding.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board granted the request of Professor John R. Rood, of the Law School, for a
leave of absence, without pay, to begin at the end of the
Summer Session of I918.
The following letter was received from Professor Robert E. Bunker:PRESIDEFNT H. B. HUTCHINS.
DEAR SIR:I hereby make application to be placed upon "The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching." In
case my application is allowed, I shall desire to retire from
the Faculty of the Law School and from my connection with
the University at the close of the present college year. If
anything further is required or needed to make known my
desire in that behalf I shall be ready to respond to any such
requirement or need. May I ask you to accept for yourself
and to convey to the Regents the assurance of my grateful
appreciation for the favors and courtesies extended to me
during my connection with the University.
Respectfully,
ROBERT E. BUNKER
Ann Arbor, Mich., February 28, I918
On motion of Regent Gore, after the reading of Professor Bunker's letter, the Board adopted the following resolution:
Resolved, That Professor Robert E. Bunker be recommended to the Trustees of the Carnegie Foundation for the
Advancement of Teaching, for the normal retiring allowance.
On motion of Regent Gore (see also page 8), the Regents adopted the following resolution:Resolved, That Professor Claudius B. Kinyon be recommended to the Trustees of the Carnegie Foundation for
the Advancement of Teaching, for the normal retiring allowance.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board voted that when
adjournment was taken it should be to May 3, I918, at
9:30 A. M.




APRIL MEETING, 1918


215


The following communication was received from Professor W. W. Beman:To the 1Hono'rable, The Board of Regents:
To take immediately a position in the Government arsenal at Watervliet, N. Y., Mr. Hermann Betz, one of our
instructors in mathematics, presents his resignation and desires to leave at the end of the week.
He has had four sections of freshmen. A careful study
of the programs of his students shows that with slight adjustments two of these sections can be merged with other
sections. The remaining sections, coming at odd hours, will
have to be kept intact.
To provide for these two sections I recommend and request that one half of the salary normally due Mr. Betz for
the rest of the year be set aside for the two instructors who
will take on additional work.
Respectfully submitted,
WOOSTER W. B4MAN
Ann Arbor, Mich, April 2, I918
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board approved the leave
of absence for Mr. Betz for the remainder of this year, the
question of part pay, if any, to be adjusted after further
information has been received, and approved the arrangements recommended by Professor Beman for the carrying
on of Mr. Betz's work.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board added $75 to
the compensation of Mr. Oie W. Stephenson, Assistant in
History, for the remainder of. the semester to cover extra
work to be performed during the absence, on leave, of Professor Van Tyne.
The President presented the question of guarding the
Engineering Building, Naval tank, and other University
property, where work having to do with the war is being
carried on, and stated what steps had already been taken
with the hope of providing a guard. The Regents took no
action.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board constituted Regent Clements, Regent Beal, Dean Cooley, and the Secretary a committee empowered and directed to secure a coal
supply for the University during I918-I9I9.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board authorized the




2i6


APRIL MEETING, 1918


Treasurer of the University to purchase United States Liberty Bonds to the extent of $50,00o, with the understanding that not in excess of $25,000 of this amount might be
bought from Faculty members and other persons connected
with the University, in the form of bonds of the first and
second loans, for conversion into the third loan, these purchases from members of the University staff being conditioned as follows:
T. Not more than $500 worth of the first and second.
loan bonds are to be bought from any one person.
2. Each person from whom the University makes such
purchase is to agree to buy of the third Liberty Loan not
less than twice the amount of the first or second loan, or
both, so purchased from him by the Regents.
3. This arrangement for purchasing the first or second
issues from members of the University staff is to terminate
with April 27.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board set aside the
sum of $1,200 to cover the expense of providing and installing new boiler-feed pumps at the Power Plant.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board authorized and
directed the University officers to place before the Common
Council of the City of Ann Arbor a petition for a storm
sewer extension on Washington   Street past the Power
House.
On motion of Regent Clements, the sum of $600oo was
set aside for the construction of a brick smokestack at the
Botanical Gardens on Packard Street to replace the steel
stack recently blown down.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board set aside the
sum of $I,200 to purchase and install a hot water heater at
the University laundry.
On motion of Regent Clements, authority was given to
the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds to exchange
horses owned by the University for others, at his discretion, with authority to pay not in excess of $300 in addition.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote except where otherwise expressly stated.
The Board adjourned to May 3, 1918, at 9:30 A. M.
SHIRLEY W, SMITH,
Secretary.




MAY MEETING
UNIVERSITY OV' MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, MAY 3, I918. J
The Board met in the Regents' Room at io A. M. Present the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Hanchett, Regent Murfin, and Superintendent Keeler. Absent, Regent Gore and
Regent Sawyer, who later took his seat.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the meeting of April 5 were approved as submitted in proof to the
members of the Board with corrections on pages 176, I79,
i86, 201, 204, 210, and 216.
Regent Sawyer took his seat.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board directed that a
credit of $25 per month be made to the Trust Funds for
rental of the property at 9II N. University Avenue so long
as such property should be occupied by the Training Detachment sent to the University under the contract appearing in the April Proceedings. (See pages 182 to I85 inclusive. Also see February and March, I9II, Proceedings,
pages 95 and Io9, respectively.)
Professor Henderson appeared before the Board and
presented orally a situation arising in the City of Detroit
which might make it desirable to extend the University Extension work. Professor Henderson also filed a statement
embodying the substance of his remarks. On motion of Regent Leland, this matter was referred to the Executive Committee and Regent Hanchett.
Regent Murfin and Regent Clements stated that the new
unit of the Homoeopathic Hospital authorized at the April
meeting (see page 176) was under construction by the
Buildings and Grounds forces, according to plans which had
been approved by both the Buildings and Grounds Committee and the Homoeopathic Medical School Committee.




218


MAY MEETING, 1918


The President reported that the question of heat and
light, which had been in charge of the special committee
consisting of himself and the Superintendent of Grounds,
with the coming of warm weather might be stricken from
the program.
Regent Leland reported that he had heard nothing from
Mr. J. G. Glenn with respect to the possible purchase by the
latter of the University property at 799-8I5 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, (see page 186), and that this matter would not
be brought up further unless Mr. Glenn should take action.
Regent Sawyer presented the following report of the
Executive Committee, and stated that the Medical Faculty
approved the proposal (see page 200):To the Regents of the University of Michigan
GENTLEMEN:The Medical Committee of the Board, to whom was referred with power a communication from the Michigan
State Nurses' Association, has considered the communication carefully and recommends the establishment in connection with the University Hospital of a Department of
Nursing and Public Health in accordance with the suggestions contained in said communication, provided the necessary funds for the establishment and conducting of such
a department can be secured from outside sources.
A copy of the communication from the Michigan State
Nurses' Association is attached to this report.
Respectfully submitted,
MEDICAL COMMITTEE:
WALTER H. SAWYER
JUNIUS E. BEAL
H. B. HUTCHINS
April 19, 1918
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the report of the committee was approved and adopted by the Regents.
Regent Clements stated that the Department of Rhetoric
had received his permission to return to the regular quarters
of that department in West Hall (see page 203).
The Secretary reported for Regent Gore that the case of
Mary Bancroft vs. the Regents of the University and the
Superintendent of Nurses at the Homoeopathic Hospital
(see page 212) had been settled by mutual agreement, by




MAY MEE TING, 1918


219


the payment of $500 to the plaintiff by the University. The
Secretary filed a receipt in full, a copy of the stipulation,
and the certificate of discontinuance signed by the Clerk of
the Supreme Court. On motion of Regent Murfin the Board
formally approved the action of the committee, including the
payment of the sum stated.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board approved the
request of Professor J. A. Bursley, Major, Ordnance Reserve Corps, for leave of absence from the beginning of the
second semester of the present University year. In view of
the fact that Professor Bursley taught one Summer Session
without drawing his salary, the Board directed that the leave
for the second semester of the present University year
should be with one-half salary.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board granted the request of Professor Edward D. Jones for leave of absence
from the end of the present University year, to permit Professor Jones to take up work for the Government. This
leave is without salary.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board authorized the
graduating classes of the Training Schools for Nurses in
connection with the University Hospital and the University
Homoeopathic Hospital to participate hereafter in the annual Commencement exercises of the University.
A communication was received from Professor Ruthven,
as Director of the Museum of Zoology, recommending that
Professor J. Speed Rogers, of Guilford College, North
Carolina, in view of his co-operation with the Museum, be
appointed to the honorary position of Associate Curator of
Diptera in the Museum. On motion of Regent Murfin, the
Board made the appointment of Professor Rogers accordingly.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, and in accordance with
the recommendation of Dean Cooley and Dr. Forsythe, Director of the Health Service, the Board assigned Dr. C. B.
Stouffer as Health Service physician at Camp Davis and the
Biological Station during the summer of I918.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board approved and
confirmed the following appointments and noted the resignations reported by the Secretary.




220


MAY MEETING, 1918


Raymond E. Esslinger, promoted from the position of
Second Dispensing Assistant in the Chemical Laboratory
to the position of First Dispensing Assistant, (vice Ralph
Ransom, resigned), from April I, I918, with salary at the
rate of $60o per year, twelve-months' basis.
Robert H. Erley, Student Assistant in Civil Engineering, for the second semester of the University year I917 -1918, with salary at the rate of $150 per year.
Harvey McC. Trimble, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry, vice G. K. Finzel, resigned, from  February I8, I918,
with salary at the rate of $Ioo per year.
Everett W. Kratz, half-time Assistant in Dispensing.
Room of the Chemical Laboratory, vice Raymond E. Esslinger, promoted, from April I, 1918, with salary at the rate
of $I5 per month.
Nelson H. Huntley, Student Assistant in Civil Engineering, vice William S. Dinwiddie, resigned, from March
26, 1918, with salary at the rate of $150 per year.
Carl 0. Barton, Student Assistant in      Descriptive
Geometry and Drawing, vice Andrew D. Althouse, resigned,
from April I6, 1918, with salary at the rate of $Ioo. per year.
Takezo Yamamato, Student Assistant in Marine Engineering, vice E. M. Murphy, resigned, from April 15, 1918,
with salary at the rate of $200 per year.
Harold M, Shapero, Reading Assistant in Economics,
for the second semester of the University year I917-I918,
with salary of $125 for the semester.
Louise Tremaine, Assistant in the Upper Reading
Room of the Library, vice Fanny B. Hogan, resigned, from
April 8, 1918, with salary at the rate of $600 per year,
twelve-months' basis.
Warren Jackson, Student Assistant in the Waterman
Gymnasium, vice E. N. Stephens, resigned, from April 22,
1918, with salary at the rate of $Ioo per year.
Edward B. Featherstone resigned as Student Assistant
in Electrical Engineering under date of April 15, 1918, to
enter military service.
Paton C. Stephen resigned his position as Assistant in
Mechanical Engineering under date of March 23, 1918.
Regent Sawyer presented a plan of administration for
the University Hospital suggested by Dr. C. G. Parnall,
Medical Superintendent elect. On motion of Regent Clem



MAY MEETING, 19I8


22I


ents, this plan was approved with certain changes which
were indicated upon the blue-print accompanying the typewritten statement.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board gave authority
to the Regents' Committee on Military Affairs and the President and the Secretary to investigate the question of making now a contract for next year's uniforms for the Reserve
Officers' Training Corps, and to make such a contract, if
after investigation the committee of four deemed it wise to
do so.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board directed that
the difference between the salary which was being paid Mr.
Herman Betz by the University up to the time of his resignation (see page 215) and the salary which is now being received by Mr. Betz in Federal service, should be made up
to him until the end of the present semester.
On motion of Regent Beal, Mr. Lee A. White, Editorial
Secretary of the Detroit News, was appointed Non-resident
Lecturer on Journalism for the remainder of the University
year, with compensation of $200 for the period named, vice
J. A. Mosenfelder, resigned to enter Army service.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, fees in the Hospitals of
the University were fixed, as follows, the same to take effect
with July I, I9I8:-For care in the wards, Michigan residents, $2.25 per day, non-residents, $2.50 per day; for private
rooms, Michigan residents, $3.00 per day, non-residents,
'$3.40 per day; for treatment in the Contagious Wards, $2.75
per day; Maternity Ward charge, $3.50 per week. The special additional charges for nursing are to continue the same
as at present.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, and in accordance with
the recommendation of Dean Cooley, the following appointments were made for the Training Detachment courses in
gas engines (see page 183), the appointments being for two
-months or until approximately June 15:H. H. Thrall, from April I5; I9I8..........$I30 per month
A. D. Althouse, from April I6, I918........ Ioo per month
A. L. Clark, from  April I6, I918............I00 per month
C. W. Good, from April II, 918.......... Ioo per month
P. W. Steelsmith, from April 12, g9r8....... oo per month




222


MAY MEETING, 19i8


On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board approved the
general plan recommended by the committees concerned, for
taking care of the other courses provided for the Training
Detachment. This plan involved the instruction of the Training Detachment by the regular Shop Instructors, during the
day time; while regular University students are instructed
during the evening. The regularly appropriated salaries of
the. Shop Instructors are to be charged to the expenses of
the Training Detachment, while the overtime pay is to be
charged to the regular Shops pay roll. The arrangements
include an extra allowance (on the basis of the fact that
practically every evening is required of them) for Superintendent Miggett and for the Clerk in the Shops.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the following resolution was adopted:Resolved, That the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture are hereby authorized and directed to receive and
register the members of Training Detachments, to provide
instruction, to make such records as may be necessary, and
to perform all other duties that may be required by the War
Department in connection with such instruction
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board set aside the
sum of $I,416.87 as the budget for current expense and.
equipment for the Military Science Department for the University year I917-I918 (see page 782, May, I917).
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board approved for
record the appointment of the following as lecturers in the
Fourth Annual Short Course in Highway Engineering, held.
February 25 to March I, 1918, inclusive. Compensation in
the amount set opposite each hame was approved, payable
out of the funds originally provided in the budget of the
Short Course, the amount in each case being actual expenses in carrying out the appointments:Nelson P. Lewis, New York City..........$ 80.30
C. J. Bennett, Hartford, Conn.............. Io8.28
H. E. Breed, Albany, N. Y.................  34.60
Col. W. G. Caples, Camp Custer........... 12.34
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board granted leave
of absence, under the terms of the resolution of June, I9I7




MAY MEETING, 1918


223


(see page 788) to Miss Laura M. Davis, Demonstrator of
Anaesthesia in the Medical School, in order that she may
take up war work in an American military hospital in
France.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, and in accordance with
the recommendation of the Faculty of the Medical School,
certificates of graduation from the University Hospital
Training School for Nurses were voted to the following:Mary Barbour           Ethyl Blanche Dietz
Ada F. Kolb            Hazel Ruth MacFarlane
Luella Jessie Burt    Adelaide M. Leffingwell
On motion of Regent Sawyer, and in accordance with
the recommendation of the Faculty of the Medical School,
an Executive Nurse's diploma was voted to Isabella Flewwelling.
On motion of Regent Beal, and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature Science and the Arts, degrees were voted as follows:BACHtEOR OS ARTS
Achsah May Harris (as of the class of I896)
Raymond Frederick Kahle
Howard William Minchin
Elmore Shaw Pettyjohn II
Lee Mohrmann Thurston
Andrew P. Van Lopik (as of the class of I916)
BACHEILOR OF SCIENCE
Glenn Grieve
Norman Charles Bender
Martin Fitch Miner
Donald Manly Morrill
Joseph Raymond Pugh
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN FORESTRY)
Walter Mauritz Broberg
Joseph Edward Woodman
On motion of Regent Beal, and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, a Teacher's diploma was voted to Lee
Mohrmann Thurston.




,224


MAY MEETING, 1918


On motion of Regent Hubbard, Jacob Lewis Schnitz was
appointed special Teaching Assistant in Hydraulic Engineering from April 24 to the close of the semester, with salary at the rate of $45 per month. The appointment of Mr.
Schnitz is necessitated by the granting of leave of absence to
Chester O. Wisler, Instructor in Civil Engineering (see
page 227).
Regent Clements reported that in view of the increase of
Io% in rates announced by the fire insurance companies to
take effect on May I, and in view of the fact that the University's insurance would expire a few months later, he had
authorized the cancellation of the University's fire insurance
policies as of April 30, and the re-writing of the insurance
for a three-years' term, thus saving not only the IO%  increase but also securing a reduction from the one-year rate.
The total saving for the three years amounted to $6,594.05.
The premium to be paid, less the return premium for cancelled insurance, was reported as approximately $I7,221.93.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board approved the action
of Regent Clements, and the Buildings and Grounds Committee was empowered and directed to arrange for the payment of the premium.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Medical School
Committee of the Board was requested to consider the requests for repairs and maintenance of hospital buildings, as
submitted by officials of the hospitals to the Buildings and
Grounds Committee, and to make to the Buildings and
Grounds Committee a report in writing giving the recommedations of the Medical Committee with respect to the approval or disapproval of such requests.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That the Regents wish to express their appreciation of the generous and helpful cooperation in the work
of the University given by many business firms and corporations, particularly by the Acme White Lead and Color
Works of Detroit, during this time of national stress. Dr.
C. D. Holley, of that Company, has rendered valuable service in this work, and this Board takes pleasure in a recognition of the spirit of citizenship and loyalty that prompted
and has unfailingly sustained that service.




MAY MEETING, 1 918


225


A communication was received from Dean Cooley discussing the question of increasing the Summer Session term
from eight to twelve weeks (see page 208). On motion of
Regent Hubbard, this matter was referred to the Executive
Committee and the Dean of the.Summer Session, for a report.
The following communication was received:THE HONORABLE BOARD 0F R1EGENTS,
University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Mich.
GENTLME]SN:The request is hereby submitted for leave of absence
for the period of the war. Arrangements have been made
for conducting the work of the Ear, Nose, and Throat Department for this period in my absence. These arrangements include retaining Dr. Furstenberg, who is at present
in charge of the clinic, until January I, and possibly until
July, I919, at which time his immediate successor, Dr. McClure, at present on the staff, will be in a position to take
over the clinic. Dr. McClure is permanently rejected from
military service by reason of physical disability.
This arrangement will, I think, be as satisfactory as
any other that might be submitted.
Very truly yours,
R. B. CANIrOLD
Base Hospital,
Camp Custer, Michigan.
May I, I918
On motion of Regent Sawyer, leave, without salary, was
granted to Professor Canfield in accordance with his request.
On motion of Regent Clements, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That the title of E. C. Pardon be and is hereby
changed from  Acting Superintendent of Buildings and
Grounds to Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds, with
salary at $3,0o0. per year.
At this point the Board adjourned for lunch.




226


MAY MEETING, 1918


AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at I:50 P. M. Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent
Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Murfin, and Superintendent Keeler. Absent, Regent Hanchett and Regent Gore.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board adopted the following resolution:Resolved, That a committee consisting of the Military
Affairs Committee of the Board and Professors M. E.
Cooley, E. D. Campbell, and Reuben Peterson be appointed
to formulate and present to the Board of Regents a plan
whereby every reasonable facility may be afforded our students to engage in studies and activities which will aid them
in rendering practical services to their country during the
present war.
On motion of Regent Leland, Regent Sawyer was appointed to initial the University vouchers for the months of
May, June, and July.
Reports were presented by the Executive Committee as
follows, and, on motion of Regent Leland, all these reports
were accepted and approved by the Board:To the Regents of the University of Michigan
GEINTLEMEN: —
Your Executive Committee at a meeting held April 20,
1918, took the following actions:I. The resignation of Mr. A. R. Bailey, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, was accepted with regret. This
action was based upon a letter from Assistant Professor
Bailey to Professor Riggs of the Department of Civil Engineering and the recommendation of Dean Cooley. Said
letter and recommendation are attached hereto.
2. Leave of absence from March 2I for the remainder
of the semester, with salary, was granted to Instructor Henry 0. Schwabe who has been obliged to leave the University on account of sickness. This leave was given with the
understanding that any arrangements for taking care of his
work that would involve the payment of money to substi



MAY MEETING, 1918


227 -

tutes engaged by Instructor Schwabe should be made
through the office of the Secretary of the University.
3. Instructor C. O. Wisler of the Department of Civil
Engineering was granted leave of absence without salary
from April 20 for the remainder of the year and for next
year, in order that he might accept a position with the New
York State Barge Canal.
4. Instructor Wells I. Bennett of the Department of
Descriptive Geometry and Drawing was granted leave of
absence without salary from April 17 for the remainder of
the current year to enable him to engage in construction
work under the War Department in connection with the port
terminal to be built at Charleston, South Carolina.
Professor Goulding and Professor Lorch will assume
the care of Mr. Bennett's work for the remainder of the
semester. It was suggested, however, by Dean Cooley that
in view of the heavy load in Descriptive Geometry and
Drawing permission be given to secure additional assistants
if found necessary, to be paid for out of Instructor Bennett's salary, and in this suggestion your Committee concurred.
Attached to this report is a communication from Dean
Cooley of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture in
which reasons for the action in each of the above cases are
fully set forth.
Your Committee asks that this report be confirmed by
the full Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BEAL,
WALTER H. SAWYER
April 24, I918
To the Regents of the University of Michigan
GENTIEMEIN:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held April 20,
I918, granted leave of absence to Professor Lorch to attend architectural meetings in Philadelphia and gave him
permission to attend such meetings at the expense of the
University to an amount not to exceed $50.00. The letter
from Professor Lorch upon which this action was based is
attached hereto. Your Committee felt that it was important




228


MAY MEETING, I918


that our College of Architecture should be represented at
the meetings to which reference is made in said letter, and
asks that its action be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BIAL
WAITER H. SAWYER
April 24, 1918
To the Regents of the University of Michigan
GENTLEMEN:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held April 20,
I918, granted leave of absence to Dr. W. W. Tupper of the
Department of Botany to date from April 6 to the end of
the present academic year, the leave to be without salary.
This leave was granted in order that Dr. Tupper might become inspector in the Equipment Division of the Signal
Corps of the United States Army.
At the same meeting Mr. Ray C. Friesner was appointed
Teaching Assistant in Botany from the I5th of April to the
end of the present academic year at the rate of $8oo annually. Mr. Friesner is to assume Dr. Tupper's work and
will be paid out of Dr. Tupper's salary.
A letter from Professor Newcombe, head of the Department of Botany, approved by Dean Effinger of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, in which the facts
are stated upon which the foregoing action is taken, is attached hereto. Your Committee asks that its action be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BEALI
WALTIR H. SAWYER
April 24, 1918
To the Regents of the University of Michigan
GENTLME  N:At a meeting of the Regents held March 30, 1917, a
resolution was passed by the Board (see page 725) regulating credit to be given to students withdrawing for military or
naval service. The terms of that resolution are generaf and
would apply to any university year. It was found by prac



MAY MEETING, 1918


229


tical experience that the provision was not workable as a
permanent regulation. Therefore, a committee of the Deans
of the different Schools and Colleges recommended to your
Executive Committee that the matter of credit to a student
withdrawing for national military or naval service be left
to the Faculty of the School or College in which the student
might be enrolled,. the general principle governing these
cases being that an equitable amount of credit should be
granted after such examinations as might be determined
upon by the Faculty interested, and your Committee so ordered. As students have already begun to withdraw, it was
necessary that the policy be settled without delay. Therefore your Committee acted as hereinbefore set forth. This
action, if confirmed by the full Board, would involve the repealing of the former action.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WATER H. SAWYER
April 24, 1918
To the Regents of the University of Michigan
GENTLEMtEN:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held April 20,
1918. received the attached communication from Professor
Herbert Richard Cross in which he asks for a leave of absence during the remainder of the current year after May 8
and during next year, in order that he may enter the service
of the American Red Cross in Italy. Your Committee
granted Professor Cross leave of absence, but left the other
questions raised in his letter, namely, the question of salary and the question of providing for the work in the Department of Fine Arts, for the determination of the full
Board.
The Committee asks that its action be approved by the
Regents.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BEAI,
WALTER H. SAWYER
April 23, 1918




230


0MAY MEETING, 1918


To the Regents of the University of Michigan
GENTIEMEN:
Your Executive Committee at a meeting held April I6,
I918, received a communication from Dean Effinger of the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts representing
that the University of Illinois was endeavoring to secure the
services of Doctor Carl Ortwin Sauer; that a call from said
University would be forthcoming in the very near future
offering Doctor Sauer an assistant professorship at a salary
of $2,200 or $2,400; that an offer came to Doctor Sauer
year before last from the University of California, which
he refused, although it provided for a larger salary than he
was receiving here; that Doctor Sauer is one of the rising
young men in his specialty; and that the work that he has
inaugurated and successfully carried on' here would be seriously interrupted if he were to leave. As it was necessary
that immediate action be taken if Doctor Sauer's services
were to be retained, your Committee passed a resolution
recommending the Regents to promote Doctor Sauer to an
assistant professorship at the maximum salary of $2,000.
Your Committee asks that its action be approved and
that the promotion recommended be made.
The communication from Dean Effinger upon which the
foregoing action was based is attached hereto.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BEAAL
WALT;ER H. SAWYER
April I8, I918
To the Regents of the University of Michigan
GENTLEMEN:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held April I6,
1,98, considered the request of the United States Shipping
Board preferred by its Chairman, the Honorable Edward
N. Hurley, that Professor Sadler of our College of Engineering should be released during the period of the war in
order that he may take up work in connection with the
Emergency Fleet Corporation. It seemed to your Committee
that the call.was one that should be honored by the University and leave of absence was therefore granted to Professor




MAY MEETING, 1918                       231
Sadler. As the salary that the Professor will receive from
the United States is very much larger than his salary from
the University, no question in regard to salary adjustment
is raised. Some part of Professor Sadler's salary will undoubtedly have to be used for an instructor or assistant
professor in the Department of Marine Engineering.
The letter from Chairman Hurley is hereto attached.
It is asked that the action of your Committee be confirmed by the Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
April 16, 1918
To the Regents of the University of Michigan
GENTLEMEN:At a meeting of the Executive Committee held April II,
I9I8, the following letter from Superintendent W. L. Miggett of the Engineering Shops, to the Secretary of the University, was laid before your Commitee by the latter:"I have engaged Charles Disbrow, 216 Oakland Ave.,
Ypsilanti, a blacksmith, as instructor in the Forge Shop at
$Ioo.oo per month. I selected him as especially fitted to
teach the Army men we are expecting, and made the rate
$Ioo.oo per month with the idea that his pay will be $1,200.00
for a twelve-month year. Should anything happen that these
men do not come, I would expect to make his pay $I,ooo
for the school year. He will occupy the position that pays
$I,Ioo for the school year. Mr. Telfer's position at $I,400 is
now occupied by Mr. Spiers who receives $I,Ioo. His rate
will have to be adjusted later, but I have not yet decided
what increase to give him.
Mr. Disbrow's pay is to begin April I.
Respectfully,
W. L. MIGGETT."
April 2, I918
In view of the necessity of filling Mr Telfer's position
at once, and of the immediate necessity of an instructor for
the men sent by the War Department for training in the
Engineering Shops, we authorized the employment of Mr.




232


MAY MEETING, I918


Spiers and of Mr. Disbrow as instructors in the Forge
Shop in accordance with Mr. Miggett's letter and ask that
our action be approved.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BEAI,
April II, I918           WALTIR H. SAWYER
To the Regents of the University of Michigan
GENTLEMEN:At a meeting of your Executive Committee held April
20, I918, the Secretary of the University presented a request
from the Military Science Department for permission to
purchase ninety-six signal flags with staffs and carrying
cases for the companies making up the two regiments. In
view of the fact that this Department is new and was entirely without equipment when started, and of the necessity for this particular sort of equipment, your Committee
allowed the necessary expense, to provide wool flags, with
staffs and cases, at a cost not to exceed $120.
Your Committee asks that its action be approved.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BEAI,
WALTER H. SAWYER
April 24, 1918
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted that the
Regents must decline to grant the use of Hill Auditorium to
a secret society, even for a public meeting of a patriotic nature.
On motion of Regent Murfin, and in accordance with the
recommendation of Professor Miggett, James H. Spiers was
appointed as Foreman Instructor in the Forge Shop, to date
from May I, at $I,400 per year, vice Charles Disbrow, resigned. Certain other minor changes, within the rates provided for the day men in the shops, were recommended by
Superintendent Miggett and approved by the Board.
The Secretary filed a communication from      Professor
Bigelow and Director Campbell, of the Chemical Laboratory,




MA Y MEETING, 1918


233


stating that Orin E. Madison, Acting Instructor in General
Chemistry, had been called into the Federal service and had
resigned as of April 25. Professor Bigelow and Director
Campbell recommended the promotion of Harvey M. Trimble to a Teaching Assistantship in General Chemistry at the
rate of $400 per year, and an increase in pay of $80 for the
balance of the semester to Wesley Minnis, now Teaching
Assistant in General Chemistry, in view of additional work
to be assigned Mr. Minnis. On motion of Regent Murfin,
the Board promoted Mr. Trimble and increased the salary,of Mr. Minnis accordingly.
On motion of Regent Beal, the.title of Professor Harri-;son M. Randall was made to include the title, "Director of
the Physical Laboratory."
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board authorized the
President to approve a bill for medical services incurred by
Instructor Eugene E. Rovillain, through exposure during
the blizzard of January 12, I918, while returning from
Camp Custer, where he had been serving gratis as a University Extension teacher.
On motion of Regent Beal, the President was requested
to refer to the Dean of Women, for investigation and report, petitions received from women students for the appointment of a committee or establishment of an office to
assist alumnae of the University to secure positions in other
than the field of teaching.
The President reported that Elroy M. Avery, of Cleveland, Ohio, a member of the Class of '71, had presented to
the University a $50 liberty bond, a war savings stamp, and
a thrift stamp, to be preserved as historical specimens. On
motion of Regent Clements, this gift was accepted with the
thanks of the Regents, and the bond and stamps were assigned to the custody of the Librarian.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board granted leave
'of absence to Dr. Rolla G. Karshner in order that he might
enter active service in the Medical Corps of the Army. This
leave is to date from April I6, I918.
The President filed the following resolution adopted by
the Deutscher Verein under date of April 5, I918, the reso



234


MAY MEETING, 1918


lution being certified by W. F. Schreiber, President of the
Verein for I917-I918:Resolved, That we, The Deutscher Verein of the University of Michigan, place all the property of this society
at the disposal of the President of the University of Michigan, the property to be turned over to the University at
his discretion.
On motion of Regent Beal, the President was authorized
to accept the property for the University.
The President filed the following letter, which was read
by the Secretary (see pages 230-23I):MR. H. B. HUTCHINS,
President University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Mich.
MY DyIAR SIR:Your letter of April I6 has been received. Both the
Shipping Board and the Emergency Fleet Corporation very
much appreciate the sacrifice which is being made by the
University of Michigan in releasing Professor Sadler.
While we realize that the University will suffer by Professor Sadler's absence, we believe that you will be compensated by the realization of the great benefit Professor
Sadler's services will bring to the country.
Please convey to the Regents our thanks for their action.
Very truly yours,
EDWARD N. HURLIY,
President
United States Shipping Board,
Emergency Fleet Corporation,
Washington, D. C.
April 20, 1918
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board accepted the
resignation of Dr. Herman J. Weigand as Instructor in German, to take effect with the evening of April 30.
The President presented the following resolution adopted unanimously by the Grand Rapids Alumni Association,
and transmitted by N. E. Degen, Secretary of that Association:




MAY MEETING, 1918


235


WHEREAS, Our country being at war with Germany,
our local schools through the Grand Rapids Board of Education, have already eliminated the study of German in
every form from all the schools, and
WHEReRAS, The study or requirements of this language
may no longer be necessary for the general aims of the civilized world, therefore be it
Resolved, That our Board of Regents of the University
of Michigan be informed that it is the sense of this Association that it be a patriotic expression of our determination
as a Nation, to eradicate these cancerous propaganda by presenting our attitude, and we, therefore, respectfully petition
your Honorable Body to eliminate the study of German
from the curriculum of our University.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, these resolutions were received and placed on file.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board authorized the
Treasurer, and members of his staff, to receive subscriptions
for The Michigan Alumnus.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted honorary
degrees in accordance with recommendations received from
the Senate Council. These degrees are to be actually conferred at the Commencement exercises on June 27, under
the usual conditions.
On motion of Regent Murfin, in accordance with the recommendation of Professor John C. Parker and Dean Cooley the Board authorized the use of Room A of the Surveying Building, together with certain equipment, in work cooperating with the Signal Corps of the War Department.
The President filed the following letter:DE:AN M. F. COOLEY,
College of Engineering,
University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
MY DEAR DEAN COOLEY:I. The best interests of the Ordnance Service have
seemed to demand the centralization of all instruction in
Ordnance work at the Ordnance Training Camp, Camp Hancock, Georgia. This centralization of instruction has necessitated the abandonment of the Ordnance Training School at
the University of Michigan.




236


MAY MEETING, 1918


2. In closing the work at the University of Michigan
this office wishes to express sincere thanks for the co-operation which the University of Michigan has given to the Ordnance Department in the training of soldiers for its supply
service.
3. Without the co-operation of the University of Michigan and the other colleges which have given their facilities,
as well as the time and expert knowledge of their instructors, this Department would, up to this time, have been unable to properly train its personnel in the important function
of supply in the field.
4. It is requested that there be conveyed to each of the
members of the University Staff who have aided in the successful operation of the Ordnance Training School at the
University of Michigan the thanks of the Ordnance Department for their co-operation and aid in making this training
course a success.
Respectfully,
W. S. PEIRCE,
Brig. Gen., Ordnance, N. A.,
Acting Chief of Ordnance
by
L. M. FULLER,
Colonel, Ordnance, N. A.
Washington, D. C.,
April 20, I918
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board requested the Budget Committee to include in.the budget for I918-I9I9 the appointment of Associate Professor R. T. Crane to a professorship of Political Science, with salary of $3,000 per annum.
Librarian Bishop communicated to the Board recent benefactions to the Library by Sidney C. Eastman, of Chicago,
of the Class of '73. These benefactions include a collection
of speeches of the Civil War period, an interesting collection
of books on the search for the Northwest Passage and upon
Arctic explorations in general, a large number of first editions of American authors, including some first editions of
Cooper and Paulding, the London Chronicle for 1776, the




MAY MEETING, 1918


237


first one hundred and fifty numbers of the Tatler, issued by
Dean Swift, a large number of books on the Anti-Slavery
Movement, and a number of leaves from a manuscript Bible
of the twelfth century. On motion of Regent Hubbard, the
President was requested to express to Mr. Eastman the sincere thanks of the Regents-for his generosity to the Library.
A communication was received from the Acting Dean of
Women stating that the Department of Education of France
has asked that the United States educate one hundred
French women in its colleges and universities, with the understanding that not more than two persons would be sent
to any one college or university. Dean Wells stated that
the Martha Cook Building and the Newberry Residence
would each provide the board and lodging of one student if
the University would assume its part of the expense. On
motion of Regent Murfin, the Board directed that should
two such students be sent here by the French government
in accordance with the terms specified, all University fees
would be remitted in their cases.
A communication from the members of the Department
of Education urging the appointment of Dr. B. R. Buckingham to the Faculty of that Department. On motion of Regent Beal, this question was referred to the committee appointed at the April meeting (see page I88), namely, Regent
Beal, Regent Gore, and Superintendent Keeler, with power
to appoint Dr. Buckingham within a specified salary limit.
Dean Cooley, Professor H. H. Higbie, Mr. Homer 4L.
Heath, of the Michigan Union, and Captain Ralph H. Durkee, U. S. A., in command of the University of Michigan
Training Detachment, appeared before the Board and presented a statement with respect to the possible increase of
service by the University to the Government, through an increase in the number of Training Detachment men to whom
instruction might be given. On motion of Regent Murfin,
the President was authorized to communicate to the War Department's Committee on Education and Special Training
the fact that in the opinion of the University authorities,
and of Captain Durkee, considerably more men than at
present might be trained here advantageously. Further,




238             MAY MEETING, 1918
under Regent Murfin's motion, should the Committee on
Education and Special Training desire to send additional
men here for such training, the Executive Committee of
the Regents was empowered to authorize the necessary
contracts or other arrangements.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote.
On motion, the Board adjourned to June 14, at 9:30
A. M.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
Secretary.




SPECIAL JUNE MEETING
UNIVERSIT'Y OF MICHIGAN, )
ANN ARBOR, JUNE I4, I918. 
The Board met in the Regents' Room at Io A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
HIubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Gore, and Regent
Murfin.  Absent, Regent Hanchett, who later took his
seat, and Regent Sawyer and Superintendent Keeler.
On motion of Regent Gore, the minutes of the meeting of May 3 were approved as submitted to the members
in proof, with corrections on pages 218, 219, 220,.22I, 224,
225, 232, 234, 235, and 237.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board voted additional honorary degrees (see page 235) in accordance with
recommendations received from the Senate Council. These
degrees are to be actually conferred at the Commencement
exercises on June 27.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to authorize the publication of the register of alumni of the
Colleges of Engineering and Architecture (see page 208).
On motion of Regent Gore, the matter of extending the
scope of University extension work in Detroit (see page
217) was referred to the Executive Committee, Regent Leland, and Professors H. C. Adams, W. D. Henderson, and
A. E. Wood.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board declined to authorize any decrease in the fees of students in the College of
Architecture (see page 208).
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board authorized the
payment of fire insurance premiums within the amount of
$17,221.93 (see page 224).
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board voted that the




240


Special Jzune Meeting, i9I8


expenditure of the sum of $3,200 informally reported as included in the budget for I918-I9I9 for the purchase and installation of a sterilizer for the University laundry, should
not be actually made until further express authority from
the Board.
In the matter of increasing the Summer Session from
eight to twelve weeks (see page 225) the President presented a letter from Professor A. E. Decker embodying certain
suggestions in that direction, but without a definitely formulated plan. The Board took no action.
Regent Hanchett took his seat.
On motion of Regent Leland, and in view particularly of
the fitness of Professor H. R. Cross for the special duties
he has taken up in Red Cross work in Italy, and in view of
the conditions under which his University work will 'be taken
care of while he is absent, and with the understanding that
this shall not create a precedent, the Board voted that
Professor Cross's leave for the balance of the present year
should be with full salary, and that should he continue on
leave one-half his salary should be paid him during I918 -I919 (see page 229).  The vote on this action was as
follows:-Aye, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent -Ianchett, and Regent Gore.
No, Regent Murfin.
A communication was received from the Michigan Union recommending that a membership fee in the Michigan
Union be embodied in the annual fee of each male student in attendance upon the University. On motion of
Regent Leland, the Board directed that beginning with the
first semester of the year I918-I919 the annual fee of each
male student in the University should be increased by $3,
which sum out of each annual fee should be paid over by
the Treasurer of the University to the proper official of the
Michigan Union. Partial fee payments, and refunds, shall
be adjusted pro rata to the fees actually collected and retained. This action by the Board specifically reserves the
right of petition to the Regents for the remission of such
fee of $3 by any student feeling himself financially unable
to pay it.




Special June Meeting, ipi8


24I


The President presented certain petitions received from
women students for the raising of a commi.ttee to assist
alumnae and women students of the University in finding positions in other than the field of teaching, together
with a report from the Acting Dean of Women upon this
proposition (see page 233). On motion of Regent Beal,
the question involved was referred to the Finance Committee for a report.
The Secretary read the following report of the Executive Committee:
To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEN:At the meeting of the Board held May 3, I918, the
President was authorized to communicate to the War Department's Committee on Education and Special Training
the fact that in the opinion of the University authorities and
Captain Durkee considerably more men than at present might
be trained here advantageously (page 237). Further, should
the Committee on Education- and Special Training desire to
send additional men here for such training, the Executive
Committee of the Regents was empowered to authorize the
necessary contracts or other arrangements.
Immediately following notice to the W'ar Department
authorities they sent here a civil and a military representative, and after inspection and conference, a contract was
made, under authority of your Executive Committee, for
training the following men for the period of two months
beginning June 15, I918:Auto  mechanics.............................  500
General  mechanics..........................  Ioo
Gunsm iths..................................  60
Carpenters..................................  40
The rate to be paid by the government is $I.75 per day. The
Michigan Union agrees to furnish subsistence at 8oc per
day. The Waterman Gymnasium is to be used as barracks
for five hundred and the remaining two hundred men will
be lodged in the houses at present used for the first detachment. The estimated budget for this detachment is as
follows:



242


Special Jlune M4eeting, J9i8


sC
4o
^S   c w  ",  >
C^ ~ -  C   i a ^ /
Cd E  NJ- [".: *> Q 
O 2   W a En " 
k an   % H
001~= CX"5^
e-l ry  uM;  <^ LQ C^


Branch of Work


H
4 -

Ignition, Starting,
and Lighting...$ 4,098 $ 355
General Miechanics,
Gunsrmithing, Carpentering.......   636   1,044
Chassis,Engine,Carburetor, and Testing............. 9,302   3,470
General   Administration and Supervision        
$14,036 $4,869


$ 600   $ i,800   $ 6,853


964
400


3,500   6,144
5,700  18,872
1,500
$I,o000 $33,369


I,500
$3,464


Changes and repairs to Gymnasium................. $ 4,400
Temporary shop building for chassis..............' 3,000
Toilet facilities for shops..........................  2,000
Other changes of buildings......................  500
Total.........................................$43,269
Credit by salvage of 50% on Tools and Equipment...  7,oI8
$36,251
$I.75 less 0.80 (for feeding) — $0.95 paid to University per man per day to cover items tabulated above.
For 700 men, 56 days, this gives a total of......... 37,240
Surplus, approximately.................$ 1,000
It is likely that we can save as much as $2,000 or perhaps
more, on the items of Tools and Equipment, and Current
Expense. The fees which we may have to pay for skilled.
workers as industrial teachers are problematical; the basis
taken for estimate-namely $I50 per month for a man to
teach twenty students, is the scale suggested by,Mr. P. B.
Woodworth, District Educational Director for the War
Department, and it now seems feasible to obtain men on
such basis. It is equivalent to paying one of our own instructors $1,350 for an academic year.  However, if we
need to pay more, we have apparently an ample margin.




Special June Meeting, 1z18 


243


It is regarded as morally certain that the government
will desire to continue this contract for several more detachments and the Michigan Union is bending every effort
to raise sufficient funds to complete its building sufficiently
for use as barracks, for it will be impossible, by reason of
the opening of the University, to continue to use the Waterman Gymnasium.
A plan of administration as outlined in the following letter
to Dean Cooley by Professor H. H. Higbie, upon whom has
fallen much of the detail work of estimating and such administration as has thus far been necessary, has the approval
of your Executive Committee. The letter is as follows:"As. you have expressed to me your desire that I
personally shall have general administrative charge of
the work of preparation for and instruction of the next
'University of Michigan Training Detachment,' due to
arrive about June 15, it becomes necessary for me to establish immediately the nucleus of an organization, in
order that authority and responsibility may be located
and work actually started.
"The character of this work is such that it should
demand practically the full time of everybody engaged
in it, and that the direction of it in general and in its
departments, should rest with experienced officers of the
University and teachers. For these reasons it seems
proper that the compensation for the work shall be at
least as great per month of service as the University
regularly pays to the same officer or for work of the
same grade. The rate of compensation recommended
for each officer is computed on this basis, and is acceptable to the individual named.
"I would suggest that the letter of appointment sent
to each man employed for this work set forth plainly
certain conditions, namely:"I. The appointment shall be for a term of two
months, at the stated rate of compensation per month,
and that
"2. The appointee shall be subject to the same conditions as to satisfactory character of work performed,
that the University itself is subject to under the following clause of its contract:"'The contractor shall procure the services of competent instructors for these courses in the approximate
proportion of one instructor to twenty men; all in



244              Special June Meeting, I9i8
structors for these courses to be appointed subject to the
approval of the War Department and to be withdrawn
from this duty upon request to this effect from the War
'Department.'
"H. H. Higbie,  at $388.88 per month
"B. F. Bailey,  at 300.00 per month
"W. L. Miggett, at 244.44 per month
"W. E. Lay,     at 200.00 per month
"It is the intention that I, as chief administrative
officer for this work (with some such title as Supervisor or Chairman, as you may direct), and the other
officers named, shall constitute a Standing Committee,
Professor Bailey having charge of approximately six
instructors in Ignition, Starting, and Lighting; Professor AIiggett in charge of approximately ten instructors for General Mechanics, Gunsmiths, and Carpenters;
and Mr. Lay, in charge of approximately nineteen instructors in work on Chassis, Engine, Carburetor, and
Testing. Nominations of these other instructors shall
reach you from me as soon as I am able to complete
the negotiations.
"In the event that you approve the plan of organization and the appointments outlined above, I would
suggest that you delegate to me, or have conferred upon
me, authority to conduct affairs relating to this Training
Detachment in your absence without awaiting your signature. In any case, however, I would ask the favor of
free consultation with you, to the end that your wisdom
and experience may assist us in making the University
of Michigan notable for the high grade and large service of its Training Detachments."
Your 'Committee is impressed by the fact that the
government regards the service in training these men as of
very great importance, and we felt that we were acting for
the best good of the country and therefore were fulfilling the
mission of the University, in making the contract and arrangements as herein reported.
We ask the approval of the full Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
WALTER H. SAWYER
JUNIUS E. BEAL
May 25, I918




Special June Meeting, 1918


245


On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board approved and
confirmed the actions of the Executive Committee as reported.
Regent Leland made a report in detail embodying the
recommendations of the Budget Committee for the budget of I918-1919.
Certain questions included in budget requests were presented to the Board by the Budget Committee without recommendation.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board declined to concur in the proposal to raise the salaries of several men
on leave of absence for war work, such proposed increases
in salaries to be effective on the return of these men.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board directed that
the salary of Professor S. Fiske Kimball, originally presented in the budget as divided one-half each to Architecture and
Fine Arts, be incorporated in the Fine Arts budget.
At this point the Board adjourned for lunch.
AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at I:45 P. M. The same members were present as during the morning session.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board directed that
in the cases of Assistant Professor A. F. Greiner and Dr.
Willy C. R. Voigt, alien enemies, in view of the fact that
Dean Cooley and Dean Hinsdale had respectively appeared
and impressed the Board with the value of the services of
Professor Greiner to the College of Engineering and of Dr.
Voigt to the Homoeopathic Medical School, and had further
vouched for the loyalty to the American cause in the present war of Professor Greiner and Dr. Voigt, respectively,
and had earnestly urged the retention of these members of
the Faculty, it was the sense of the Regents that they should
be continued upon the Faculty roll.
On motion of Regent Leland, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That the budget as recommended by the Budget Committee, amounting to $2,043,485.58, be approved and




246


Special June Meeting, I i8


adopted as the budget for the University year I918-I919; and
that the Secretary be given authority to insert the names of
persons proposed later by heads of departments and approved by the proper dean for academic appointments below
the rank of instructor, and for clerical appointments, for
which compensations have been provided in the budget, and
also authority to group or regroup accounts as may seem
desirable for formal accounting purposes, but without affecting in any case the actual amounts of appropriations.
The resolution was adopted unanimously on a call vote.
Regent Murfin for the committee on University war
activities (see page 226) filed a preliminary report in writing. After discussion this report was informally held for
further consideration at the annual meeting, June 25.
The following letter was presented:PREbSIDENT H. B. IHUTCHINS,
University of IMichigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
* MY DEAR MIR. HUTCHINS:I have just received formal notice of my election to a
professorship of Biology at Amherst College and am despatching by this mail my formal acceptance. Will you kindly
transmit to the Board of Regents my resignation to become
effective June 30, I918?
May I also ask to be granted a leave of absence to begin
as soon as I have examined my last class and to terminate
on the 30th of June? I am asking this in order that I may
have as much time as possible to continue investigations
which I have had under way for many years at the Marine
Biological Laboratory at Wood's Hole.
Very respectfully yours,
O. C. GLAS ER
Ann Arbor, May 5, 1918
On motion of Regent Beal, the resignation of Professor
Glaser was accepted, with regret, and leave of absence for
the final days of the present University year was granted as
requested.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board granted the request of Chester S. Schoepfle, Instructor in Organic Chemistry, for leave of absence for military service; for the period
of the war, under the resolution of June, I9I7 (see page
788).




Special June aleeting, IrQ82


247


On motion of Regent Beal, the Board increased the sum
provided in the Chemical Laboratory budget for the personal assistant of Professor Campbell as Director of the Chemical Laboratory to an amount not in excess of $600.
The following letter was presented:The Honorable Board of Regents,
University of Michigan.
GCNTLEMEN:I hereby present my resignation as Professor of Political
Economy and Finance, the same to take effect at the close
of the present academ-ic year.
This action is taken with a view to accepting a similar
position at the University of IMinnesota.
Very truly yours,
May Io, I918                  G:o. W. DowRIgE
On motion of Regent Beal, Professor Dowrie's resignation was accepted with regret.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board granted leave of
absence from May 13 to the end of the semester to Mr. William H. Jellema, Instructor in Philosophy, in order to allow
Mr. Jellema to take up war work in Washington. In view
of the fact that Mr. Jellema's colleagues were carrying his
work for the remainder of the semester entire, without extra expense to the University, the Board directed that full
salary for the remainder of the year should be paid to Mr
Jellema.
On motion of Regent Clements, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That Harry B. Hutchins, President of the
University of Michigan, be and hereby is authorized and
directed to sign for the Regents of the University of Michigan, or for the University of Michigan, such bond as may
be required by the United States Internal Revenue Service
for the granting to the University of Michigan of a permit
to use distilled spirits for other than beverage purposes.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board granted leave of
absence for the months of November and December, 1918,
to Professor H. A. Gleason in order that Dr. Gleason might
accept the invitation of the Director of the New York Botanical Garden, to spend this period at the Garden'for the




248


Special Junee Meeting, I9i8


completion of a monograph of the group Vernonieae, for
publication in "The North American Flora."
A communication was received from Professor Clarence
T. Johnston, as president of the Boad of Trustees of the
Students' Christian Association, asking whether the Regents would consider the possibility of connecting the heating system of Newberry Hall to the central heating plant
of the University, on condition that the Students' Christian
Association pay the entire expense of installation and would
also pay all charges for heat used. On motion of Regent
Clements, the Board declined to consider this proposition.
A communication was received from Dr. James G. Van
Zwaluwenburg setting forth the present and prospective
needs of the Department of Roentgenology. On motion of
Regent Beal, this communication was laid upon the table
for consideration at the meeting of June 25.
The following letter was presented:DEAR MR. HUTCHINS:In looking over the papers of Professor Henry S. Frieze
his daughter recently found a copy of the Detroit Free Press
for December I8, I86I, containing a full report of the meeting of the Board of Regents for December 17, S86I. The
report fills two columns, and about half of it is given to the
memorial of Andrew D. White presenting to the University, with inventory and description, "The Horace White
Collection of Medallions."
This report was quite new to me, and Secretary Smith
informs me that he cannot find the original, which apparently
was not published in the Proceedings of the Board.
I believe it sound policy to publish in the Proceedings
such memorials accompanying gifts as this is; when we
have suitable accommodations for the storing and display of
these medallions, their value will be more fully appreciated.
I should not feel justified in permitting this copy of the
Free Press to be used as printer's copy, but Mr. Swain
could easily make a copy of the page with the photostat and
this could be used by the compositor in case you would
wish to incorporate Professor White's memorial in the
Proceedings of the Regents. As a matter of fact it contains clear stipulations regarding the use of the gift.
Sincerely yours,
FRANCIS W. KI;LSEY
May 20, I918




Special June Meeting, IQI8


249


On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board authorized the
publication in the Proceedings of the matter referred to by
Professor Kelsey, which is as follows (see also December,
I86I, Proceedings, page 97I):To the Honorable the Board of Regents.
GENTL MEN II desire to present through you to the University the
collection of medallions, numbering about 1,500 specimens,
cast by Eichler, of Berlin, recently imported by me, and now
arranged in the terra-cotta room of the museum. The collection comprises:First-A selection of casts from the collection of sculptured gems in the Royal Museum at Berlin. At my request
Mr. Eichler has selected from that famous collection 450
specimiens which, in his judgment, combine the greatest
artistic merit, with the greatest interest to the classical
scholar and the student of ancient history.
Mr. Eichler has added to the usefulness of the gems
he has chosen by numbering each specimen to correspond
with the full description given in the catalogue drawn up by
Winchelbaun at the order of the Russian government. This
catalogue also worked to facilitate reference to the collection I desire to present.
The second division of the collection comprises a complete reproduction of Mr. Eichler's series of medieval and
early modern (Renaissance) medals. Of these there are
about six hundred. Among them will be found a large
number of works from the hands of such celebrated artists
as Pisanus, Pictor, Bolder, DePastis, and   Benvenuto
Cellini. These furnish an interesting series for the study of
the progress of art during the last four centuries, but their
chief use will be found in their connection with the study
of general history. The greater number of the medals are
portraits of noted historical personages, sculptured in their
honor and during their-lives.
A large number, too, are casts of commemorative medals, struck immediately after famous historical events. I
may mention here that the great struggle so nobly described
in the works of our countryman Motley, is very fully illustrated.
About three hundred of these Eichler catalogued fully,
with ample historical references, and I desire to thank Prof.
Bruennow for extending the usefulness of this catalogue by




250,Special June M[eeting, 1918


an excellent translation. The remaining medallions in this
division, owing to Eichler's sudden illness were left uncatalogued. I have ordered, however, from Paris, at no expense to the University, the French "Treasury of Numismatics and Sculpture," in whose twenty folio volumes I
hope to find ample aid in identifying the remainder, which
were mainly struck during the time of the Reformation.
The third division of the collection embraces nearly two
hundred casts, arranged in the direct intention of aiding the
student of Modern History.
First in this division is a complete series of the Popes
from Martin the Fifth, elected by the Council of Constantine, down to Pius IX, inclusive. These are arranged in
chronological order.  The whole series is divided into
centuries, and each century is separated from those before
and after it.
Secoiid In this division comes a full series of the
Emperors of Germany, from Frederic III, to Francis VI,
with whom the German Empire ended and the Austrian
Empire began.
Third-In this division is a series of the sovereigns of
France, from Charles VI, to Napoleon III, inclusive.
Fourth-A series of the sovereigns of England, from
Henry VII, to Victoria, inclusive.
Fifth-A series of the sovereigns of Prussia.
Sixth-The sovereigns of Saxony.
Seventh-The sovereigns of Russia, from the rise of the
present dynasty.
Eighth-The sovereigns of Poland.
Ninth-The sovereigns of Sweden.
It should be remembered that none of these portraits
are ideal or imaginary. Each is from an authentic medal
or coin struck in the time of the person represented.
It is believed that this collection, as arranged, will do
much toward familiarizing students with Modern Chronology, making it something more than the dry, repulsive
skeleton which it too often becomes, will add to the vividness of historical presentation, and will aid in grouping
events about the knowledge of persons.
To further these objects, I desire to present Eichler's
catalogue of these series with additions of my own.
The fourth division of the collection comprises about
two hundred and fifty authentic medallion portraits, mainly
of persons noted in the history of the past six centuries,




Special June Meeting, I918                251
including our own century. As these were portraits of men
distinguished in departments and events of every kind, some
difficulty arose as to the mode of their' arrangement. It
was finally decided to separate them by centuries-to set
each character in that century in which his main work was
done-and to arrange the portraits in each century alphabetically.
Of these I have prepared a preliminary catalogue, giving
birth-date and death-date of each person. It is believed that
this division also will stimulate to historical study, and
aid in it.
In regard to the authenticity of these portraits, I quote
from Eichler's Catalogue, published in I847:"The great number of portraits which the gallery now
contains, may cause some persons to suspect that the works
are of a mechanical sort, without reliability and without
artistic merit.
"This is not at all the case. In their preparation have
been used only such coins, casts, or sculptured originals as
belonged to the lands and times in which the persons represented lived, and such, also, as were made by the most
noted contemporary artists. The rich treasures of the Royal
Museum, also of several private collections, have been
opened, and have given a rare opportunity for using the
works of the most noted sculptors of the last four centuries, in producing this gallery of portraits.
"The undersigned (Eichler) has for many years spared
neither trouble nor expense in taking casts of noted works
in foreign museums which might aid in completing his
collection.
"It is believed, then, that the collection will be found
satisfactory both in regard to the artistic perfection of the
work and the reliability of the portraits."
The fifth division comprises a miscellaneous collection
of very large medallions, portraits of the Italian and German poets, and of some noted heroes, among the rest reductions of Houdon's Washington, Canova's Napoleon, and
Rauch's Bluecher.
The largest of these, fourteen in number, finished to
imitate sculpture in ivory, were shivered into small fragments, probably at the New York custom-house, and great
thanks are due Professor Watson for the ingenuity and
patience which have restored them almost to their original
beauty.




252


Special June Mleeting, I9i8


The sixth and last division comprises a few reductions
from the more noted works of Thorwaldsen. Each of these
is framed in brass; and glazed.
In concluding this outline of the collection I desire to
express thanks to Dr. Tappan, and the Faculty generally,
for much good advice and aid; to Regent McIntyre for his
readiness to bear some responsibility in regard to receiving
the collection; to Mr. Edward A. Fay, of the senior class,
who during a fortnight has given all his leisure between
dawn and dusk to assist in preparing, labeling, setting and
arranging the collection, and to other members of the same.
class who from time to time have given much assistance.
I present this collection to the University on the following conditions:First, there shall be furnished by the Regents at the
earliest possible day, suitable cases for the entire collection.
Secondly, the Regents shall render the collection available by providing for the legible copying and simple framing of neat, practical lists of specimens, which shall be attached to the cases.
Thirdly, there shall be effected at an early day, 'and
there shall always be maintained, an insurance upon the
collection and cases of at least $400.
Fourthly, as a slight memorial of one who, after doing
much for other institutions of learning, came to look with
especial hope and admiration toward the future of the
University of Michigan, and who was only prevented by
death from proving these feelings by substantial tokens, the
collection shall bear the name of "The Horace White Collection of Medallions."
Hoping that these terms may not seem onerous, and
that the collection may tend in some degree to increase the
usefulness and raise still higher the character of the University,
I remain, with assurances of great respect,
AND. D. WHITJ
Prof. of History and of English Literature
University of Michigan, Dec. I8, I86I
Communications     were   received  from   the  Michigan
Chapter of the American Institute of Architects and from
the Committee on Education, of the Michigan Society of
Architects, recommending the reduction of the fees in the
College of Architecture. In view of the action taken by




Special June Meeting, i918


253


the Board at the morning session      (see page 239) these
communications were merely placed on file.
On motion of Regent Leland, following a request for
such' action by Miss Alice Evans, the salary of Miss Marion
Wood for I 918-I9I9 was fixed at $,5oo00 and for Miss
Marion Dawley for the same period at $I,200, with a
corresponding reduction of $200 in the amount to be paid
Miss Evans (see page I86).
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board granted the request of Ray V. Leffler, Instructor in Economics, for leave
of absence, without salary, from the date at which he might
be called into the United States Naval Service, the leave to
be for the period of the war.
Regent Hubbard reported progress in the matter of codifying the University's Statutes and By-Laws. On his motion, the following resolution was adopted:Resolved, That each Standing Committee of the
Board, with the co-operation of the President and the Dean
of the appropriate department, examine and suggest needed
changes in or additions to, the rules passed by the Board of
Regents as currently submitted to the members in MSS.,
and send the results of such revision to the editorial member of the Committee on the By-Laws.
A  communication from    Dr. Forsythe regarding conditions under which University students may enter the University Hospital was informally laid upon the table for consideration at a later meeting.
The following communication from      Dr. Forsythe was
presented:To the Honorable Board of Regents:The Health Service frequently finds persons in the University who have never been vaccinated. Because of the
recent increase of smallpox generally, it is our opinion that
such persons endanger the health in the University. The
Health Service staff therefore presents the following requests after having secured the endorsement of Deans
Vaughan, Hinsdale, and Cooley for the plan in general.
I. That with the opening of the next school year each
student enrolling in the University be required to present




254


Special June Meeting, I918


within thirty days, evidence of successful vaccination against
smallpox satisfactory to the Director of the Health Service.
A successful vaccination regardless of the time interval
would be accepted.
2. That with the opening of each succeeding school
year the same vaccination requirement be made of every
student seeking to enter the University for the first time.
3. That advisory pressure be exerted by the University administration to the end that all present and succeeding
faculty members and employees who have never been successfully vaccinated should be so protected.
4. That the Health Service be authorized to make the
vaccination without charge for anyone desiring it as a result
of these regulations.
Respectfully submitted,
WARREN E. FORSYTHE
June 4, 1918
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board approved and
adopted the regulations recommended in the communication.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, Miss Cleo Murtland was
appointed for two weeks' summer school work in Detroit,
beginning July 8, with compensation of $300 to be paid from
the Smith-Hughes fund.
On motion of Regent Murfin, following recommendation
by the Faculty of the Homoeopathic Hospital Training
School for Nurses, certificates of graduation from that
School were voted to the following:Ethel Allen Alderman
Antoinette Sophia Alger
Myra Ellen Beebe
Astrid Charlotte Elizabeth Dahlberg
Eva Lucile Graham
Mable Victoria Mann
Sara Josephine Purtell
Ruth Rosella Renwick
Ethyl Sparling
Minerva Ella Wells
Frances Willard Hill
Bessie Marguerite Keillor
Ada Rea Pardon




Special June Mleeting, -918


255


On motion of Regent Hanchett, following recommendation by the Executive Board of the Graduate School,
appointments to Fellowships were made as follows, for 1918 -I9I9, except in the two cases noted.
TWO CARL BRAUN FELLOWSHIPS OF $250 EACH
Frank Nelson Blanchard, A.B., Tufts College
S. Martinez de Alva, L.H.B., Catholic University of
America
FOUR UNIVERSITY $500.00 FELLOWSHIPS
Dorothy Hall, B.S.E., (June, Ig98)
Julia May Hawkes, B.L., Carleton College, A.M.,
Columbia University
Henry Stephen Lucas, A.B., Olivet College, A.M.,
Indiana University.
Helen Henriette Marguerite Roelofs, A.B., Cope
College, A.M.
TWO UNIVERSITY FELLOWSHIPS OF $250.00 EACH
FOR THE SECOND SEMESTER OF I918-I919
Wilber Esmond Brotherton, Jr., A.B., M.S.
Frieda Cobb, A.B., University of Illinois
THREE UNIVERSITY FELLOWSHIPS OF $300.00 EACH
Ray Victor Beshgetoor, B.S., Alma College
Orpha Ann Culmer, A.B., University of Montana,
A.M., ibid
Pei Chien Yang, A.B.
NINE STATE COLLEGE FELLOWSHIPS OF $300.00 EACH
Inez Achsah Cope, A.B., Adrian College
Edith Layer, Alma College
Zenas Zalsman Inidens, A.B., Hope College
Mabel Mather, Albion College
Theda Marie Palmer, Adrian College
Eleanore Ross, A.B., Olivet College
William L. Schultz, A.B., Kalamazoo College
Ona Maude Fowler, A.B., Hillsdale College
Bertha Antonia VanTuyl, Albion College
BUHL CLASSICAL FELLOWSHIP, $300.00
May Sanders, A.B. (June, I918)




256


Special June Meeting, I918


On motion of Regent Hanchett, a special allowance of
$25 was made to the Graduate School for editorial and administrative expense in connection with the University of
Michigan publications.
Two communications from       the Secretary asking for
rulings in regard to leaves of absence and the payment of
extra compensation under certain conditions at the close
of the University's fiscal year, on motion of Regent Murfin
were referred to the Executive Committee and the Secretary, with power, and with request to formulate a report
embodying general principles to be followed in such cases.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the approval of
the Faculties of the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and the College of Dental Surgery, the Board prescribed the conditions below as governing the combined sevenyear Literary-Dental curriculum:Students desiring to obtain the degrees of Bachelor of
Arts in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
of Doctor of Dental Surgery in the College of Dental Surgery, may, by enrolling on the combined Literary and Dental
Curriculum shorten from eight to seven years the time required to earn the two degrees. This privilege will be open
only to students who during their first three years have
maintained a uniform record of good scholarship. The work
will be under the direction of a Committee of five members
representing the two colleges. With the consent of the Committee in charge, a candidate for the degree of Bachelor
of Arts, who has been a student in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts for at least one year, and has 90 or
more hours to his credit, of which at least 30 hours have
been earned in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts of this University, may enroll upon the combined curriculum; that is, while continuing his registration in that
college he may also register in the College of Dental Surgery, provided the work he has already completed includes
a sufficient number of the courses enumerated below to enable him to complete within one year the specific requirements described in the following paragraph.
When the student so registered in the two colleges has
completed the second year of the Dental Curriculum, and not
less than 90 hours in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, he may be recommended for the degree of Bachelor




Special June Meeting, I9i8


257


of Arts, provided his work has included the following
courses:Rhetoric, 6 hours, including Courses I and 2
French and German, I6 hours of either one, and 8 hours
of the other
Physics, 12 hours, including 4 hours of laboratory work
Chemistry, general, qualitative, and organic, 14 hours
for students presenting Chemistry for entrance,
otherwise I8 hours
Biology, 8 hours
Zoology, 6 hours
English, 6 hours
History, 8 hours
Total, 84 or 88 hours
Suggested electives
Latin or Greek, 8 hours
Philosophy, 3 hours
Physical Chemistry, 3 hours
A- communication from Dean Effinger stated that certain
students had construed the action of the Regents allowing a
refund of the entire fees paid by students leaving the University to enter the country's service (see page 30) as
meaning that the student might make a choice between credit or refund. On motion of Regent Leland, the Board dedared its intent in taking the action mentioned to be to. allow refunds in cases in which no credit is actually earned.
In cases in which the Faculty deems credit to have been
earned and is willing to vote such credit, refunds of fees,
if any, are to be upon the regular basis.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board approved the
following appointments made by the Secretary and accepted for record the other changes reported:Eric E. Blomgren, Teaching Assistant in Civil Engineering, from March 15, 1918, with compensation at the rate
of $I50 for the semester.
Dwight G. M/oorehead, Student Assistant in Mechanical
-Engineering, vice Paton C. Stephen, resigned, from April I,
1918, with salary at the rate of $200 per year.
Cecil W. Blashill, Assistant in Forestry, vice Walter
M. Broberg, resigned, from April 6, I918, with salary at the
rate of $Ioo per year.




258


Special June lMeeting, T9i8


Charles W. Gustavus, Student Assistant in Mechanical
Engineering, vice Leo Tattersall, resigned, from April I0,
1918, with salary at the rate of $200 per year.
James F. Fairman, Student Assistant in Electrical Engineering, vice E. B. Featherstone, resigned, from April I6,
1918, with salary at the rate of $Ioo per year.
Clyde K. Halsey, Interne in the University Hospital,
vice Lester C. Todd, promoted, from April I6, 1918, without
salary, but with board and lodging.
Lester C. Todd, Interne in the Department of Dermatology and Syphilology, vice Rolla G. Karshner, resigned,
from April I6, I918, with salary at the rate of $6oo per
year, twelve-months' basis.
Edward L. Nugent, Student Assistant in Engineering
Mechanics, vice Elmer E. Schacht, resigned, from April
19, I9I8, with salary at the rate of $I50 per year.
Mrs. Dorothy S. Woodbury, Student Assistant in Civil
Engineering, vice J. L. Schnitz, resigned, from April 24,
1918, with salary at the rate of $I50 per year.
D. Cohen, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry, vice H. M.
Trimble, promoted, from April 25, I918, with salary at the
rate of $Ioo per year.
Margaret Addison, Cataloging Assistant, vice Mrs.
Esther B. Clarke, resigned, from May I, 19I8, with salary
at the rate of $550 per year, twelve-months' basis.
David G. Bovee, Assistant in Mechanical Engineering,
vice John D. Hibbard, resigned, from  May I, 1918, with
salary at the rate of $200 per year.
Harold W. Collins, Student Assistant in Electrical
Engineering, vice Burr K. Osborn, resigned, from  May I,
1918, with salary at the rate of $Ioo per year.
Stanislow L. Orzechowski, Student Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, vice Lawrence V. Kerber, resigned,
from May I, I9i8, with salary at the rate of $200 per year.
Clara Stimson, Assistant at the Arboretum, vice N. S.
Philippi, resigned, from May I, 1918, with salary at the rate
of $50 per month.
H. S. Feizy, Technical Assistant in Zoology, vice C.
Chatterton, from May 6, 1918, with salary at the rate of
$6oo per year, twelve-months' basis.
Cordelle Kemper, Secretary at the Observatory, vice
Amy G. Scutt, resigned, from May 6, I918, with salary at
the rate of $700 per year, twelve-months' basis.
F. R. Nethaway, holder of the Detroit Copper and
Brass Rolling Mills Fellowship, with stipend of $500 per




Special June Meeting, IpI8


259


year, resigned May 9, I918, to engage in special research in
the equipment division of the Signal Corps, at Pittsburgh,
Pa.
Erman 0. Scott, Director's First Assistant in the Chemical Laboratory, vice Everett G. Fahlman, resigned, from
May Io, 1918, with salary at the rate of $300 per year.
James A. Rings, Reading Assistant in Economics, vice
James P. Adams, resigned, from May 14, 1918, with salary
at the rate of $250 per year.
George E. Dake, Assistant in Mechanical Engineering,
vice Harry T. Porter, resigned, from  May 17, 1918, with
salary at the rate of $200 per year.
Charles D. Dyason, Assistant in the Surgical Laboratory,
vice Chester Hagamnan, resigned, from May 20, 1918, with
salary at the rate of $25 per month.
Frank J. Helbig, Assistant in General Chemistry, vice
Eugene L. Jackson, resigned, from May 20, I918, with salary
at the rate of $Ioo per year.
Russel Jarman, Keeper of the Bogardus Tract, vice
Sherman Jarman, resigned, from June I, I918, with salary at
the rate of $50 per month.
Conrad G. Lucas, Instructor in Starting, Lighting and
Ignition for the second Auto Mechanics Training Detachment work, from June Io, 1918, with salary at the rate of
$I75 per month.
Norman Stoll Yost, Instructor in Starting, Lighting
and Ignition for the second Auto Mechanics Training Detachment work, from June Io, I918, with salary at the rate
of $Ioo per month.
Clarence H. Bell, Instructor in second Auto Mechanics
Training Detachment work, from June 13, 1918, with salary
at the rate of $I50 per month.
Harry L. Mitchell, Instructor in second Auto Mechanics Training Detachment work, from June 13, 1918, to the
end of the second Training Detachment period, with salary
at the rate of $140 per month.
Henry E. Garthwaite, Instructor in Starting, Lighting
and Ignition for the second Auto Mechanics Training Detachment work, from June 15, 1918, with salary at the rate
of $I50 per month.
Carlos C. Ransdell, Instructor in Starting, Lighting and
Ignition for the second Auto Mechanics Training Detachment work, from June 17, 1918, with salary at the rate of
$I25 per month.




260.Special Junle lMeeting, r1S8


On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board accepted with
thanks a gift from William B. Sears, of Saginaw, M.E.
(Hon.) I915, of a Holmes Solar Transit designed and used
by Mr. Sears in his pioneer experiences in railway construction in Michigan.
Dean Cooley communicated to the Board a report of the
visit by Engineering Faculty members and about one hundred members of the Senior Engineering Class to Camp
Custer, April I8 and I9. The Regents received the report for filing and approved the letter of thanks, which
the Engineering Faculty had transmitted to Colonel W. C.
Caples of the 3ioth Engineers, for attentions received.
A communication was received from Dean Cooley relative to the form of'diploma to be issued to graduates of the
Colleges of Engineering and Architecture who come from
Spanish-American countries and who expect to return there
for the practice of their professions. On the understanding
that Dean Cooley desired to transmit further matter upon
this subject, the Board took no action upon the communication.
The following communication was received:MR. SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
Secretary of the U. of M.,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
MY DEAR SIR:In the English order my name is written Ramon
Esquivel Merino and here at the University it is recorded in
that way. The Spanish order is Ramon Merino Esquivel.
As I am to be in Chile, I would prefer my name on my
diploma in the Spanish order:-Ramon Merino Esquivel.
Will you, please, see that my name is written in the
latter order?
Yours very truly,
R. MERINO
Ann Arbor, Mich.,
June II, I918
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board approved the
petition of Mr. Merino, and authorized the Secretary to record this action as a precedent in the case of similar requests in the future.




Special June Meeting, ipi8


26I


On motion of Regent Hanchett, the following appointments to and changes in the teaching staff for the Summer
Session of I918 were approved on condition that the budget
of the Summer Session as already adopted made provision
therefor:COLLEGE Or LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Chemistry
Instructor E. C. Britton.....................$300.00
Acting Instructor J. S. Richtig................ 50.00
Teaching Assistant E. R. Sturdevant.......... 5o.o00
Assistant R. B. Fast........................... 40.00
Assistant H. E. Gladhill.......................  40.00
Assistant W. E. Cake.........................  40.00
Assistant C. W. Clarke.........................  40.00
Assistant M. L. Morse..........................  40.00
(The appointment of Instructor C. S. Shoepfle
to be cancelled.)
Zoology
Assistant H. A. Dennee....................... $IOO.O0
COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
Electrical Engineering
Professor  J. C. Parker........................$500.00
Associate Professor J. H. Cannon.............. 400.00
Instructor G. A. Pomeroy..................... 300.00
Instructor P. H. Evans....................... 300.00
BIOLOGICAL STATION
Custodian D. H. Simons........$o............ $Ioo.o
Assistant L. E. Smith........................    50.00
(The appointment of H. A. Gleason to be cancelled.)
LIBRARY METHODS
Instructor  C. M ullett..........................$  7500oo
EMBALMING AND SANITARY SCIENCE
Instructor J. L. Bollman (Bacteriology).........$I50.oo
Assistant R. K. Brier (Chemistry)............. 20.00
SPECIAL LECTURES
M r. R.  J.  Flaherty............................$  75.oo
Professor G. N. Wrong.......................     25.00




262


Special June Mleeting, s918


On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Secretary was directed to communicate to L. D. Cutcheon, Director of Public Service of the City of Grand Rapids, Mich., the pleasure
of the Regents and Faculty that twice during the spring
members of University classes in Sanitary Engineering have
been given opportunity for three days' practical training
in the operation of the sand filter plant of the City of Grand
Rapids, particular mention being made of the courtesies extended by W. A. Sperry, chemist in charge of the plant.
A  communication was received from     Dean Vaughan
relative to the personnel of the Surgery staff for 1918, but
as it was understood that action was not desired the communication was placed on file.
On motion of Regent Beal, John T. Connell was made
Acting Assistant Professor of Bacteriology, vice Paul H.
DeKruif, with salary at the rate of $I,600 per year. This
appointment is to begin with the University year I918-I9I9,
and it is the intention that should Dr. DeKruif return to the
University during the year the appointment of Dr. Connell
shall terminate.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board approved the
petition of the members of the Medical School class of 1919
for continuation of their medical training during the summer of I918, with the purpose of completing their senior
year's work for the degree of Doctor of Medicine correspondingly earlier in the University year. This approval was
on the basis of the following accompanying memorandum
from a committee of the Faculty of the Medical School:The committee from the Faculty of the School of MIedicine, appointed to consider the desirability of beginning the
fourth year of instruction for students of the Medical School
immediately following the close of the present session, beg
leave to report as follows:It is recommended that the Regents of the University
of Michigan be respectfully requested to provide that instruction for senior class students of the University Medical
School begin immediately following the Commencement
of 1918, and continue until the required nine months of instruction for this class are completed.
It is requested that an intermission of one week be
authorized to begin with the evening of Saturday, Septem



Special June.Meeting, 1918


263


ber 21, and to end the evening of Monday, September 30,
I918.
It is understood that there will be no change in the
summer courses already provided for by the Board of Regents for the coming summer.
In case instructors who had arranged to give courses
for which remuneration had been provided by the Board of
Regents, are obliged to give up such teaching in order to
carry on the work requested in the new arrangement, it is
requested that they be given the remuneration they had
expected for this work and that the usual salary for summer school work be provided for the instructor who takes
over their course. This will require an added expense of
only $225.00.
L. H. NEWBURGH
C. W. EDMUNDS
ALBE:RT M. BARRETT, Chairman
For the information of the Honorable Board of Regents,
it may be stated that at the conference between the War Department and the Association of American Medical Colleges
held in Chicago on Tuesday, June I, the Committee on.Medical Education from the Surgeon General's office in
conference with a committee appointed from the. Association
of American Medical Colleges recommended that all medical
schools that could possibly do so should this year run a
continuous session for the senior students.
No action was taken upon the communication from the
Faculty of the Medical School in so far as it related to the
plan of organization at the University Hospital.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board reappointed the
following as alumni members of the Board in Control of
Athletics for the year ending May 3I, I919: John D. Hibbard, of Chicago; James L. Duffy, of Bay City; and Charles
B. DuCharme, of Detroit.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board appointed the
following, nominated by the Board of Directors of the Athletic Association, as student members of the Board in Control of Athletics for the year ending May 31, I919: MacGregor McKinney, Oscar P. Lambert, and Donald P.
Yerkes.




264


Special June Meeting, z9i8


On motion of Regent Murfin, and in accordance with
the recommendation of the Board in Control of Athletics,
refund of the Outdoor Physical Education Fee was authorized in the cases of two students.
Regent Hanchett reported he had made an investigation of the University expenditures as indicated by the
vouchers for March, April, and May of this year, which
vouchers he had approved, and that in connection therewith
he had also conducted an investigation of the prices paid
for purchases made by the Purchasing Department, and the
result showed that the University was buying such materials and supplies at prices as low as other large buyers, and
in certain instances at a lower figure.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board accepted with
thanks the gift tendered by Miss Annie G. Houghton of the
mineralogical collection of her father, the late Jacob
Houghton.
The Secretary read the following report of the Executive Committee:To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEN:At a meeting of your Executive Committee held in Ann
Arbor, June 7, the Committee appointed by the President
to consider War Food Courses for next year, consisting of
Acting Dean Wells, Dean Effinger, Professor Strauss, Professor Smeaton, and Professor Myers, recommended that the
Hoover War Food Courses be continued for I918-I919, with
the same amount of credit as allowed this year, namely, two
hours of credit for the three hours of lectures covering
Courses I and II, and one hour of credit for the laboratory
work, Course III. The Committee further recommended
that the Regents be asked to allow a sufficient sum to cover
the cost of these courses. The Committee also recommended that with the consent of Dr. Peterson a three-hour war
course with credit, covering Dietetics, First Aid, and Home
Nursing be given under the direction of the Head Nurse at
the University Hospital. At this time the Executive Committee did not pass upon the last of the above three recommendations. We did however feel the necessity of approving the first two recommendations, including an allowance
of $500 for the expense of such courses for the one semester,
namely:



Special June M/eeting, 1918


265


Equipment.................................. $oo
Compensation of lecturers................... 300
Compensation of instructor in laboratory....... oo
We recommend that the sum    of $500 be accordingly
included in the budget for I918-I919, and that the President
be authorized to appoint such instructors as may *be required.
The report of the committee of five, and a further
letter from Acting Dean Wells, relating to the subject, are
hereto attached.
We ask the approval of the Board for our findings.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
WALTER H. SAWYER
JUNIUS E. BEAL
June 7, 1918
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Boad approved and
confirmed the report of the Executive Committee, and in
accordance therewith appropriated the sum of $500.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the following report of
the Executive Committee was approved and confirmed:To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEN:Your Executive Committee at a meeting held May 28,
I918, appointed Mr. Carl R. McCrosky as Instructor in
General and Physical Chemistry for the year I918-I919, at
a salary of $I,400. It was represented to your Committee
that in order to secure this man an immediate appointment
was necessary. This action is based upon a letter, attached
hereto, from Professor S. Lawrence Bigelow of the Department of General and Physical Chemistry, to which are
added the endorsement and recommendation of Director
E. D. Campbell of the Chemical Laboratory. Your Committee asks that its action be confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
WALTER H. SAWYER
JUNIUS E. BEAL
May 28, 1918




266


Special June Meeting, I918


On motion of Regent iMurfin, the following report of
the Executive Committee was approved and confirmed:To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEN:At a meeting of your Executive Committee held May
13, I918, it was represented by Dr. Darling, of the Surgical
Department, that the budget of the Department for the current year had been exhausted and that an addition of $200
thereto would be necessary to provide for the work during
the remainder of the year. Upon a careful examination of
the case your Committee was of the opinion that the addition asked should be made and such addition was authorized. The Committee asks that its action be approved by
the full Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BEA,
WALTER H. SAWYER
May 15, I918
On motion of Regent Murfin, the following report of
the Executive Committee was approved and confirmed:To the Regents of the University of Michigaln.
GENTLEMIEN:At a meeting of your Executive Committee held May
28 there was presented to your Committee an inquiry by
Captain Durkee, in charge of the University of Michigan
Training Detachment, with respect to the conditions under
which, if the War Department desired, the benefits of the
University Health Service could be extended to the members of the Training Detachment. After conference with
Dr. Forsythe, Director of the University Health Service,
it seemed to us that a fair arrangement would be to extend
all the benefits of the Health Service to the members of the
Training Detachment at the rate of $I.50 per man for the
period of eight weeks. On the basis of the charge to the
student body for the University year of thirty-six weeks,
which charge is $6.oo, for the eight weeks during which
the members of the Training Detachment are here a pro
rata charge would be $I.33~3. It seemed that in view of the
changing personnel of the Training Detachment should




Special Junie Meeting, Ip98


267


these units continue to be sent here, and the consequent in-.
crease in liability to contagious disease being brought in,
it would be fair to increase the fee to $I.50 for the eight
weeks.
Acting under authority which was given us at the meeting of the Regents held May 3, we approved and consented
to the above outlined arrangement should it in turn have
tlie approval of the War Departmilent.*
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCII1NS
WVALTER H. SAWYER
JUNIUS E. BEAL
June 5, I918
On motion of Regent Clements, the following report of
the Executive Committee was approved and confirmed, including the proposed use of Hill Auditorium:To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GE]NTI;EMEN:At a meeting of the Executive Committee held in Ann
Arbor, June 7, a communication was received from  Professor Clarence T. Johnston in behalf of a committee consisting of himself, Captain R. H. Durkee, U. S. A., in command of University of Michigan Training Detachment, and
Mr. N. C. Fetter, Secretary of the University Y. M. C. A.
This communication was as follows:"PRESIDENT H. B. HUTCHINS,
University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Mich.
DEAR MR. PRESIDENT:"No great difficulties have been met in connection
with the care of the two hundred enlisted mechanics
who are soon to leave for active service. Lectures have
been provided for these men and the dining room at the
Michigan Union has been utilized as an auditorium
where short addresses and musical programs have been
rendered. Lane Hall has been set aside in part at least
for the entertainment of these temporary students of
the University. With over seven hundred mechanics
* The War Department did not desire to make use of the plan.Secretary.




268


Special June Meeting, Ip98


coming to replace those now with us, plans must be
modified. Since meals will be served for three hundred and fifty at a time, it will be impossible to use the
dining room as an auditorium. Lane Hall will be too
small to care for all of these men and it is a little too
far from headquarters to be of the maximum service.
Many mothers, sisters, and friends of the enlisted men
visit Ann Arbor on Saturdays and Sundays. A place
should be available where these social activities may
be carried on under proper supervision. In order that
preparation may be made to meet the new demands, the
following suggestions are submitted to you with the
request that they be submitted to the appropriate authorities for final approval if such is possible:"a. AUDITORIUM. While it is recognized that Hill
Auditorium will be occupied at times during the summer, it has been suggested that at least one evening per
week might be set aside for the use of enlisted men.
The officers in charge have requested that the military
lectures provided at the cantonments be furnished here.
Many of these are illustrated and a moving picture
apparatus should be available. In order that these be
given without competition with the local moving picture
houses, Captain Durkee and his staff suggest that a
nominal fee be-charged the public. The funds arising
from this source would be employed in the purchase of
War Savings stamps, in the purchase of music, and in
other ways,-thus giving the enlisted men an opportunity to make investments that are now almost impossible.
"b. EXTENSION O0 Y. AM. C. A. FACILITIES. To care
for men who can not go to Lane Hall and to bring the
Y. M. C. A. nearer to headquarters, it has been suggested that a tent be erected within the running track
between the Gymnasium and the Medical Building. A
national representative of the Army Y. M. C. A. visited
Ann Arbor yesterday and he agrees to furnish the tent
and all necessary equipment providing the University
will furnish grounds for this extension of Y. M. C. A.
activities. The army does not support the Y. M. C. A.
on sectarian lines and it demands the greatest liberality
in every way. The organization stands for good morals
rather than for narrow religious views. It is helpful in
many ways and it adds greatly to the morale of the




Special June Meeting, i9 r8


269


young men because it is helpful in practical ways. Lane
Hall will still be used to the utmost, but some other
facilities must be provided if this work is to have the
support of the national Y. M. C. A. Organization and
if the activities it provides are to be furnished to all in
the best manner.
"c. A HostEss HousE. It has been suggested to
Miss Wells that a room of Barbour Gymnasium be set
aside for the use of the enlisted men who desire to entertain their mothers, sisters, and women friends. Several organizations among the women of Ann Arbor
have been in search of some practical work that they
might perform.   It would seem   that the Hostess
House would furnish this opportunity for service. While
the subject has not received full consideration as yet
by Miss Wells and those associated with her, we are
informed that the sentiment is favorable. Should the
women finally approve of this plan, it would be helpful to have the way cleared so that immediate steps
may be taken.
"Respectfully,
CLARENCE T. JOHNSTON,
In behalf of sub-committee
in charge of Arrangements.
Other members of Committee:
CAPTAIN DURKEE
N. C. FETTER"
Ann Arbor, Michigan
June 7, I918
With respect to the three recommendations your Committee recommends that item "a" (the use of the Auditorium) be granted with the assumption of the cost of
janitor service, moving picture operator, etc., by the University. As this was not an emergency need the Committee refers this matter to the full Board with recommendation as stated.
After consultation with Mr. J. R. Sutton, relative to fire
risk and finding that no such risk would be held by the
insurance companies to be involved, and after consultation
with Superintendent Pardon, who offered no objections,
your Committee authorized the Y. M. C. A. to erect a tent
as specified inside the temporary running track between the
Gymnasium and the new Medical Building. All damages to
the track shall be paid for by the Y. M. C. A.




270


Special June Meeting, I9i8


With the approval of Dean Wells and with the understanding that the Ann Arbor Branch of the Association of
Collegiate Alumnae would take charge of the administration
of the so-called "Hostess House" we approved the use of a
room in the Barbour Gymnasium in accordance with the
request. It may be stated that Mrs. Stella Blackburn, a
colored janitress of the Barbour Gymnasium, has offered
to do, without compensation, such janit orork as the new
arrangement will entail, as a contribution by her to the
service.
We ask the approval of the Board for our actions on
item "b" and "c" and for a decision with respect to item "a."
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
WALTER H. SAWYER
JUNIUS E. BLAL
June 7, I9I8
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That the committee in charge of the design
and construction of the new hospital units, be instructed
to provide proper quarters and equipment which shall be
put aside (and used exclusively in case of necessity) for
the student body,-such assignment to consist of the proper
number of private rooms and wards, all to be arranged under the direction of the Students' Health Service organization.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board directed that
the class quarters of Professor Hussey, of the Department
of Astronomy, should be moved to suitable space in the
new Science Building, and that the space thus vacated in
Tappan Hall should be turned over to the Department of
Education with such allowance for repairs and alterations as might be necessary to adapt the rooms to the
uses of the Department of Education.
Regent Clements discussed the financial situation involved in the new Library Building, and stated that in
every way possible the expenditures upon this building
would be reduced to a minimum.
Regent Leland stated that an offer of $40,o000 had been
made for forty-six lots owned by the University in the City




Special June Mleeting, Ipi8


27I


of Detroit on McGraw Avenue. On motion of Regent
Murfin,.Regent Leland was authorized to negotiate with any
person or persons desiring to purchase this property and to
report back to the Board if an offer was received which in
the opinion of Regent Leland was worthy of consideration.
Regent Beal and Regent MIurfin reported that a communication relative to the granting of a diploma to Harold
Eisele, now in the military service of the country, had been
referred by them to the Faculty of the Law School.
Regent Beal reported to the Board that the body of
former Chief Justice and Regent William A. Fletcher, whose
burial place in Ann Arbor had long been unknown, had been
found. The body had been exhumed from the unmarked
spot and transferred to the Forest Hill cemetery. It was
expected that the State Bar Association and the State Historical Society and others would join in paying proper respects to the memory and final burial place of this former
State official. On motion of Regent Beal, the Board appointed Regent Hubbard to represent the Regents in such
ways as in Regent Hubbard's judgment might be fitting
under the circumstances.
Regent Beal presented a petition from a number of University students requesting the continuation upon the Faculty of Assistant Professor Warren W. Florer (see page
I90).
On motion of Regent Beal, Regent Murfin was appointed as a committee to confer with the Governor of the State
with respect to the condition and problems of the University.
The Secretary presented a letter from the Auditor General of the State to the effect that commencing with Monday, June io, allowance for parlor car must be eliminated
from all expense vouchers by persons traveling at the cost
of the State, State institutions, boards, and commissions.
The Secretary was informally directed to bring this communication to the notice of officers of the University.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Medical Director of the University Hospital
Training School for Nurses, certificates of graduation were




272


Special June Meeting, 1918


voted to the following, with the understanding that these
certificates would be issued only after the completion of the
entire three years of practice work.
Candace Belle Arrants       Mildred M[. Hussey
Lillian Baird               Pearl Jeffery
Alice I. Bradbury           Elizabeth A. Johnson
Olive Jane Brown            Katherine Lutz
Virginia E. Bryant          Wilhelmina Meyer
Glessner Carrithers         Mildred I. Morford
Emma E. Eckfeld             lone Orr
Estle Idyll Ellsworth       Jean A. Peters
Ellen I. Field              Lilian E. Peterson
Eleanor Fischer             Bernice Rettig
Dorothy S. Frank            Retha M. Robbins
Violet Hoar                 Alta Fay Wille
The President presented a communication expressing the
thanks of the Board of Trustees of the Students' Christian
Association for aid furnished its several departments during
the period of coal shortage last winter.
On motion of Regent Beal, the title of Mr. C. C. Glover
was changed from "Acting Secretary of the College of
Pharmacy" to "Secretary" of that College.
The President presented a letter from Librarian Bishop
calling attention to the completion of Volume IX of the
Humanistic Series, containing Professor H. A. Sanders's
critical studies of the New Testament Manuscripts in the
Freer collection, and reviewing the circumstances of the
Greek manuscripts bought in Egypt by Mr. Freer in I906.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Regents formally voted
their congratulations to Mr. Freer upon the high character of the work which has been completed through his
generosity, and expressed their thanks for his long continued support of this University activity.
A communication was received from Professor E. D.
Campbell stating that there was at the present time no rule
which would prevent an enemy alien from being admitted
to the University as a student and from electing technical
courses in the various laboratories of the University. This
communication was received and filed.




Special June Meeting, I9i18


273


Professor Kelsey communicated to the Board that the
following citizens of Michigan had made up, through Mr.
Charles Moore, of Detroit, the University's contribution of
$250 to the American Academy in Rome for the year I9I7 -I918:
A. C. Bloomfield, Jackson, Mich.
Herbert E. Boynton, Detroit, Mich.
Roy D. Chapin, Detroit, Mich.
Captain D. M. Ferry, Detroit, Mich.
Charles L. Freer, Detroit, Mich.
William J. Gray, Detroit, Mich.
H. H. Hamilton, Grosse Pointe, Mich.
Major R. WV. Hemphill, Jr., Ypsilanti, Mich.
Jere C. Hutchins, Detroit, Mich.
C. A. Lightner, Detroit, Mich.
Charles Moore, Detroit, Mich.
William H. Murphy, Detroit, Mich.
Edward W. Pendleton, Detroit, Mich.
Nathaniel Robbins, Grand Haven, Mich., for the Estate
of William Savidge
John R. Russel, Detroit, Mich.
Miss Mary E. Turner, Detroit, Mich.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Regents expressed their
thanks to these contributors for their generous co-operation.
A communication was received from     Professor A. A.
Stanley urging the consideration of means for opening
the Stearns collection to the public at stated periods. No
action was taken at this time.
A communication was received from     Professor A. A.
Stanley expressing his appreciation of a testimonial presented to him by the Regents, as individuals, on the occasion of the Twenty-fifth Annual May Festival.
A communication was received from     Professor E. D.
Campbell suggesting that in order to secure assistants best
adapted for war research work in the Chemical Laboratory.
the same laboratory privileges should be granted to assistants of this class as are now granted to ordinary assistants
in the Chemical Laboratory, and that the Faculty should be
authorized to grant such an amount of credit toward a degree as within its discretion might seem justified.




274


Special June Meeting, I918


On motion of Regent Beal, the Board approved the request for laboratory privileges, upon condition that a record should be kept of the cost of such privileges in each
case, and voted that credit might be given toward a degree provided the regular University fee were paid in each
such case.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of Dean Lloyd, of the Graduate School, the
Board authorized registration of Summer Session graduate
students in absentia at a fee of $5 for each summer.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board declined to
make an allowance for traveling expenses in connection
with the editing of Volume X of the Humanistic Series.
A communication was received from Professor J. R.
Brumm, Faculty Manager of the University Band, requesting further financial assistance for the band.  On
motion of Regent Murfin, this communication was referred to the Board in Control of Athletics with a request
that this Board should, if possible, find some means of
providing the required assistance.
On motion of Regent Beal, leave of absence from June
Io to the end of the present University year was granted
to Professor A. F. Shull in order that he might co-operate
in the work of crop inspection for the Michigan Crop Improvement Association.
On motion of Regent Beal, Mr. Howard Kingsley was
appointed Instructor in the History of Education, with salary of $I,500 for the University year I918-I9I9.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board extended for
the period of the war leave of absence granted (see June,
I9I7, page 797) to Ross H. McLean, Instructor.in History.
A communication was received from Dean A. B. Stevens
transmitting a letter from Frederick Stearns & Co., tendering the sum of $500 to constitute the Frederick Stearns
Fellowship in Pharmacy for the year I918-I9I9. On motion of Regent Leland, this gift was accepted with thanks.
On motion of Regent Murfin, leave of absence from
June I with salary to the end of June, I918, was granted




Special Jzlune.eeting, p9i8


275


to E. E. Rovillain, Instructor in French, who has left for
service in the French army, and whose entire work is being carried, without expense to the University, by his
colleagues for the remainder of the present semester.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, the following resolution was adopted:Resolved, That the requirements for admission to the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts be revised so as
to allow candidates to offer three units of the required
fifteen from any of the subjects counted toward graduation
by the accredited school from which the applicant receives
his diploma.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of Professor Newcombe, Ray C. Friesner was
appointed to the Cole Botanical Fellowship for the year
I918-I919, with stipend of $500.
On motion of Regent Murfin, following the recommendation of the committee consisting of the President, the
Professor of Music, and the Secretary of the University,
Henry Hugh Altvater was appointed to the James L. Babcock Scholarship in Music for the University year of I918 -I919, with stipend of $250.
The President presented a letter from Charles L. Reese,
Chemical Director of E. I. duPont de Nemours & Company,
tendering to the University the sum of $750 to constitute a
Fellowship for the year I918-I919, the conditions being that
such Fellowship should be known as the "duPont Fellowship" and should be granted by University authorities to a
graduate student whose major study is chemistry. On motion of Regent Murfin, this gift was accepted with the thanks
of the Board, under the conditions named.
The President read a portion of a communication from
the War Department Committee on Education and Special
Training to the Commanding Officer of the University of
Michigan Training Detachment directing. such officer to
make the following statement to the authorities of this University:
The experiment (i. e., of training-detachment instruction) has been an entire success and this Committee desires




276


Special Jlune Meeting, rpi8


to express its appreciation of the zeal and hard work of
commanding officers, junior officers and men, and of the
patriotic co-operation of the educational and local authorities, which have all contributed to this result.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to
make a gift of $Ioo toward the expenses of a vocational conference to be given under the auspices of the Women's
League in November, I918.
Regent Murfin presented the report of the Director of
the Museum of Zoology for the period from July I, I917, to
May I, I918. On motion of Regent Murfin, the report was
accepted for printing under the appropriation made in the
budget therefor.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to appropriate the sun of $25 to be added to the amount already
provided, in the Summer Session budget, for a lecture to
be given by Professor G. M. Wrong.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote except
where otherwise expressly stated.
On motion, the Board adjourned to the fixed date of
the annual meeting, Tuesday, June 25, at 9:30 A. M.
SHIRLrY W. SMITH,
Secretary.




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 1
ANN ARBOR, JUNE 25, 1918.
The Board met in the Regents' Room at Io:3o  A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
Murfin, Regent Hubbard, and Regent Gore. Absent, Regent
Clements, Regent Hanchett, Regent Sawyer, and Superintendent Keeler.
Consideration of the minutes of the meeting of June I4
was postponed until the succeeding meeting.
Regent Leland reported an offer to purchase Lots I to
46 inclusive of Block seven of Fyfe, Barbour & Warren's
Subdivision of that part of Private Claim 260 lying between
Horatio Street and Warren Avenue, City of Detroit and
Township of Springwells, at $45,000, net, payable $I0,000
in cash two days after delivery of a satisfactory abstract,
$Io,o0o June 20, I9I9, $Io,ooo June 20, 1920, and $15,ooo
June 20, 1921, with interest at 6%  on all deferred payments. This offer contemplated the privilege to the buyer
of anticipating any of the above mentioned deferred payments, and contemplated farther that any commission upon
this sale should be paid by the buyer. On motion of Regent I,eland, the Board accepted the offer and authorized
the President and Secretary to furnish to Mr. Earl Holley,
who made the offer, or his proper representative, a deed
and abstract, and to make such other arrangements as
might be required to complete the sale (see pages 270 and
271).*
The following request was received from the Faculty of
the Homoeopathic Medical School and on motion of Regent
Murfin it was granted by the Board:* At the meeting of July ig Regent Clements requested that the record
state that had he been present at the meeting of June 25, he would have voted
"no" upon this question.




278


Al znutal Jtune Meeting, I9I8


To the Honorable Board of Regelts:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for June 25, I918.
In view  of the fact that the teaching staff of the
Homceopathic Medical School does not consider itself prepared to resume efficient routine teaching and clinical service
immediately after the close of this regular year, viz., July I,
I918, they submit:-That the Regents be respectfully requested to permit the School to register its senior, and if
thought best later, its junior class for regularly scheduled
courses, Monday, August 26, I918, and to continue uninterruptedly, except for actual legal holidays, until the full
number of University weeks of work be completed.
According to this plan the time gained will be as follows:
A ugust.................................  I   week
September.............................  4  weeks
October............................... I week
(Note -— The first week, registration week,
of October is usually consumed in organization and classification, hence not to be
counted as a study week of particular value.)
Holiday  vacation........................ 2  weeks
Total number of weeks gained...........  8
Since at least two weeks are usually consumed in June
by "senior vacation" for state board examinations, Commencement, etc., the senior class will be prepared for military duty about April I, I919, or at least two and a half
months earlier than usual.
Respectfully submitted,
W. B. HINSDALE, Dean
June 15, 1918
The following request was received, through the President, from the Reverend Michael P. Bourke:HON. H. B. HUTCHINS, LL.D.,
Ann Arbor.
MIY DEAR DocTOR:In accordance with the arrangements already passed
upon and approved by the Federal Board of War Activities
relating to provision for the Y. M. C. A. and the K. of C. in
caring for the soldiers in the various cantonments of the
United States, I am instructed by Bishop Kelly to present




Annual Jtune.lMeeting, i1i8


279


through you a request to the Board of Regents of the University. The Knights of Columbus, of this State, respectfully' ask permission to erect on the Campus a tent to serve
the enlisted men in attendance at the University of Mich-gan, in the same manner in which the Catholic soldiers are
now served in the encampments of the country. An officer
delegated by the K. of C. will take charge of this institution
to see that all wants of the boys are provided for. We
should like the privilege also of using the Barbour Gymnasium to permit the soldiers to receive and visit relatives
and friends. I presume that the lighting of these places will
be furnished by the State from the plant of the University.
In view of the fact that a large percentage of the new
arrivals, and those presently in attendance at the University
are men of the Catholic faith, and further in view of the
fact that our present parish accommodations are inadequate
to properly provide for these visitors in our midst, I know
that this request will receive favorable consideration.
Thanking you for the courtesy in advance, I am, dear
Doctor,
Very respectfully yours,
MICHAE, P. BOURKE
June 17, I918
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That the Knights of Columbus be given permission to erect and maintain upon the Campus during the
continued presence of United States Army Training Detachments a tent for the service of enlisted men, under the
following conditions:-The tent of the Knights of Columbus and the tent of the Young Men's Christian Association
shall be maintained and regulated under precisely the same
conditions as govern the erection and maintenance of such
tents at the Federal Army cantonments and the operation
and maintenance of such tents shall be at all times subject
to the knowledge and approval of the commanding officer of
said Training Detachment. The location of each such tent
is to be subject to the approval of the Buildings and Grounds
Department of the University. There will be no differentiation between any members of the Training Detachment
with respect to the privileges of the Barbour Gymnasium as
these privileges will be administered for all alike through
the Association of Collegiate Alumnae.




280


Aznnual June Meeting, I918


On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board referred to the
Secretary for investigation and report the questions involved in the possible liability of the University in case of damage to persons or property by automobiles owned by the
University and driven by students in United States Army
Training Detachments, or by instructors of such students.
The Secretary was also directed to investigate the necessity
for Workmen's Compensation Insurance in the case of such
instructors. In case emergency action should be required
on this matter the Executive Committee was authorized to
act within its discretion.
On motion of Regent Murfin, following recommendation by Professor Ruthven, Director of the Museum of Zoology, Cecil Billington, I04 Woodland Avenue, Detroit, was
appointed to the position of Honorary Curator of Botany
in the Museum of Zoology.
On motion of Regent Leland, and in conformity with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Dental
Surgery, the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery was conferred upon the following:

Victor Adams, 3d
LaVerne Hayes Andrews
Ernest Norman Bach, A.B.,
Hillsdale College
Reame Leslie Bailey
Irving Ernest Baker
Roberto Celso Barbosa
Heman Earl Barlow
Glenn Royden Barnes
Frank Joseph Bauman
Robert Vincent Bird
George Karl Bolender
Albert Lowell Brock
James Gerald Brown
John Fairman Bulmer
Felix Samuel Burkholder
William Frazier Chadwick
Frank Orville Clifford
Albert Raymond Collins, Ph.C.,
University of Montana, B.S.,
ibid.
Harold Charles Cramer
Rex Perry Cranson
Harte Erwin Deming
Walter William  Denig
John Edwin Dodge
George Daniel Drudge


Albertus Wynand Eksteen
Frederick Harold Essig
Hiram Barney' Fassett, Jr.
Emerald J. Garlock
Garland Garl Gee
Kenneth Richard Gibson
William John Goude
John Henry Haley
Gerald Graham Hall
Signe Maria Hamalainen
Bidwell Cranfield Hansen
Frederick Joseph Henry
Richard Uno Hirwas
Paul John Holt
Alan Dean Honey
Edgar Allan Honey
Bertram Victor Ingle
Louis Manning James, Jr.
Harold James Jones
Francis Howard Kelly
Eugene Ghert Klaver
Harry Sibilla Lamlein
Dhilve Darwin Langlois
Herbert Herman Lichtig
John Leonard Lundberg
Albert MacDonald
Robert Duncan MacDonald




An Bnual June Meeting, 1918


281


Hendrik Jacobus Marais
Karol Jan Marcinkiewicz
Clement Phillips Martin
William Jennings Bryan Mason
Able Robert Melcher
Clarence George Miller
Donald Lyle Mitchell
Elwood Whitfield Morris
John Michael O'Leary
Carl Otho Osborn
Moe Samuel Perils
George Martin Peterson
Verne Edward Peterson
Lowrie James Porter
Carlisle Baxter Rathburn
Clarence August Rebentisch
Albert George Riddering
Terry James Roberts
Robert Angus Ross
Lennox Joseph Schmidt
Albert August Seele
George Frederick Sheffield


Matthew  Oscar Sivula
Hilda Mary Smith
Henry Starikoff
Clayton Ervin Stevens
Frank William Stockton
Oliver Milton Strong
John Wright Sweet
Earl Henry Teetzel
Gerhard Emmalnel Thrun
Frederick Homer Tinsman,
A.B.
Peter Cooper Treleaven
Clyde Emory Tuttle
Millard Ray Twiss
John Anthony VandenBosch
Frederick Albert VanRiper
Francis Bulkley Vedder, A.B.
Perry Van Whitaker
Max Milton Williams
Newlands Archibald Williams
William Henry Errol Williams,
A.B.


The Secretary reported that the Director of the University Health Service had received from Mr. E. D. Conger,
of Grand Rapids, Michigan, a check for $Ioo sent "as a
token of Mr. Conger's appreciation of the care given to his
daughter, when ill at the University Hospital in November
and December, I917." On motion of Regent Murfin, this
gift was accepted with thanks, and authority was given to
expend it in accordance with recommendation which might
be made by the Health Service.
On motion of Regent Murfin, following the request of
Professor J. W. Glover and Professor Henry C. Adams,
Rolland V. Mothersill was formally named as lecturer on
Insurance Accounting for the year 1917-1918, with compensation of $250 as provided in the budget. The work
of the course had already been completed by Mr. Mothersill.
On motion of Regent Gore, permission was granted to
the Reverend Lloyd C. Douglas, of the First Congregational Church, of Ann Arbor, to hold a patriotic non-sectarian religious service upon the Campus on the evening of
July I4, using the band-stand as a platform. This meeting is understood to be one of the regular Sunday evening




282


Annual June Meeting, 19I18


union services of the Ann Arbor churches. No collection is
to be taken.
On motion of Regent Murfin, and in accordance with
the recommendation of the Faculty of the Homoeopathic
Medical School, the degree of Doctor of Medicine was
conferred upon the following:Garth Wilkinson Boericke       Edward Clinton Stebbins, B.S.,
Linn John Boyd                   Hobart College
John David Coons, A.B.         Hugh John Strathearn, A.B.,
Wabash College                 Adrian College
Clayton Sprague Emery          Willy Carl Rudolph Voigt,
Lewis William Grice              E.Min., University of FreiAmmi Lloyd Johnson               burg, B.S. ibid.
Byron Walter Malfroid          Bernard Henry Vollertsen
Charles Burdette Pillsbury
On motion of Regent Beal, and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Pharmacy, degrees were voted as follows:GRADUATE IN PHARMACY
Harold Charles Storick         Arthur James Zuver
Henry Carr Varnum
PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST
Otis Neukom Auer, Ph.B.,       Herschel Brian McWilliams
Saint Louis College   of." Nicholas de Sales Miller
Pharmacy                     Pauline Marie Tessmer
v Alfred Freeman Black           Russel Anthony Thomas
W WVilliam John Bonisteel        Elmer Hauser Wirth
Mary Elizabeth Dunlap        1 James Alexander Wyman
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN PHARMACY).A Alfred Freeman Black          Herschel Brian McWilliams
Ernest Ransom  Crandall,       Russel Anthony Thomas
Ph.C.                        Elmer Hauser Wirth
Mary Elizabeth Dunlap
Seth Parker Grandy, Ph.C.
Phila. College of Pharmacy
On motion of Regent Murfin, and in accordance with
the recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate School, degrees were voted as follows:MASTER OF SCIENCE (IN FORESTRY)
Irving Cooke Williams, A.B., Ursinus College, LL.B., Columbia University, LL.B., University of Pennsylvania, A.M., ibid.
gWith the Colors.




Annual June Meeting, I918


283


MASTER OF SCIENCE (IN ENGINEERING)


Ovidio Benedicto Apeseche,
A.B., National College of
San Juan, Argentine, B.S.
(C. & I.E.), Colorado Agiiclltural College
Wesley Bintz, B.C.E.
Eric Edwin Blomgren, B.C.E.
Russell Alger Dodge, B.S.E.
f- William Frederick Gerhardt,
B.S.E.
Lewis Wellington Heller,
B.M.E.


Frank R. Nethaway, B.S.E.
Albert LeRoy Taylor, B.S.,
University of Utah
Clyde Elmore Wilson, B.S.
(M.E.)
Kei Tit Wong, B.S.E.
Seitaro Yamashita, Graduate,
Highcr Technological
School of Tokyo, Japan


MASTER OF SCIENCE


f Raymond Walter Barnard,
A.B.
George Joseph Brilmyer,
B.S., Al1na College
James Murl Cork, B.S.
Wesley George France, B.S.
(Chem. )
Frank Devillow Haskins,
B.Ch.E.
Paul Anderson Keene, B.S.,
Hiralmn College
Elsie Lois Backus Novy,
A.B.


Harvey Curtis Roys, B.S.
(E.E.)
MJoseph Rubinger, B.S.,
Corn ell IUniversity
Arthur Floyd Schlichting,
B.S. (Phar.)
Ida Sitler, A.B.
Norman Rudolph Stoll, B.S.,
Mount Union College
Mary Frances Walsh, B.S.,
Denison Unliversity


MASTER OF ARTS


Doris Alma Adair, A B.,
Adrian College
N Charles MLeeks Anderson,
A.B., Johnson Bible College, A.M., ibid.
Muriel Babcock, A.B.,
Hillsdale College
Harry Jay Baker, A.B.
Paul Edward    Bollenbacher,
A.B.
Beryl Iles Burns, A.B.,
University of Missouri
Denis G. Clancy, Ph.B.,
Hillsdale College
Harry Leroy Clark, A.B.
John Crafton Clark, A.B.,
Knox College
Hester Laura Cooper, A.B.
Roy Burford Cowin, A.B.
William Arthur Gonter, A.B.
Althea Jane Granger, A.B.,
Vassar.College
fWith the Colors.


Nellie Elizabeth Grohe, A.B.,
Olivet College
Mildred Hinsdale, Ph.B.
Olivia Clare Hoermann, A.B.
Harry Gilbert King, A.B.
Ada Mabel Kirley, A.B.,
Smith Colleqe
Rudolph Lechner, A.B.,
[fartburg College
Frederick Bardwell McKay,
A.B.
John R. Mulder, A.B.,
Hope College
Helen Louise Nicholson,
A.B., Colorado College
Lucille Abbott Nobbs, A.B.,
Kalamazoo College
George Charles Nothdurft,
A.B., Central College
Olive E.. Outwater, A.B.
Moses Richelieu Franklin
Peters, A.B.




284


Alnnual June Meeting, I9Q8


Ethel Anna Reese, A.B.
Catherine Mary Regan, A.B.
Emma Louise Robson, A.B.
Stephen Scatori, A.B.,
Tulane University
Vivian Genevieve' Smith,
A.B.
Frank Albion Taber, Jr.,
A.B.
Marie Frances Tilbe, A.B.,
Denisonr University
Margaret Gates Vogel, A.B.,
Vassar College


Marjorie Louise Walker,
A.B.
Elba Emanuel Watson, B.L.
Mary Louise Welton, A.B.
Alice Young Wieber, A.B.
Winfield Curtis Wynn, A.B.,
Johnson Bible College
A.M., ibid.
Pei Chien Yang, A.B.
Clara Elizabeth Yntema,
A.B., Hope College


CIVIL NGINEER
Loren Robert Manville, B.C.E.
Thesis-Various   Positions of Loading   on Timber
Beams Materially Influence Horizontal Shear Values.
DOCTOR OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Ned Rudolph Smith, A.B., A.M., M.S.P.H.
Dissertation-Organ Extracts.
DOCTOR OF SCIENCE:
Chester Seitz Schoepfle, B.Ch.E.
Department of Specialization-Chemistry.
Dissertation-A Study of the Properties of Diphenyl
-Alpha-Nappylmethyl-A      Contribution to the
Chemistry of Free Radicals.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY
James Pyper Bird, A.B.
Department of Specialization-Romance Languages.
Dissertation-El Libro   de  Los Doce     SaviosTractado de Nobleza y Lealtad.
Edgar Clay Britton, A.B.
Department of Specialization-Chemistry.
Dissertation- A  Study   of Beta-Aminopropiophelione and Its Condensations with Nitromalonic
Aldehyde.
Burton George Grim, A.B., A.M.
Department of Specialization-Rhetoric.
Dissertation-The   Musical  Element   in  George
Meredith.
fWith the Colors.




Annual Jui e 1f eeting, Ip98


285


Stacy Rufus Guild, A.B., Washburn College, A.M.
Department of Specialization-Anatomy.
Dissertation-War Deafness and Its Prevention;
with Observations Bearing also upon the Physiology of Hearing.
Ella Sharples Hoghton, B.S., Wellesley College, A.M.
Department of Specialization-Fine Arts.
Dissertation-Attributions of Certain Marbles in the
Boston Museum of Fine Arts.
Elmer Samuel Imes, A.B., Fiske University, A.M., ibid.
Department of Specialization-Physics.
Dissertation-Measurements on the Near Infra-Red
Absorption of Some Diatomic Gases.
Norbert Adolph Lange, A.B., M.S.
Department of Specialization-Chemistry.
Dissertation-A  Study  of Four-membered    Cyclic
Ureas.
Conrad Henry M/oehlmann, A.B., B.D., Rochester Theological Seminzary, A.M., University of Rochester.
Department of Specialization-Greek.
Dissertation-Theos Soter, Soter as Title and Name
of Jesus.
Peter Olaus Okkelberg, A.B., University of Minnesota,
A.M., ibid.
Department of Specialization-Zoology.
Dissertation-The Early History of the Germ Cells
in the Brook   Lamprey, Entosphenus Wilderi
(Gage), up to and including the Period of Sex
Differentation.
Iouis Joseph Rouse, A.B., Princeton University, A.M/.,
University of Pennsylvania.
Department of Specialization-Mathematics.
Dissertation-A Contribution to the Question of
Linear Dependence in Linear Integral Equations.
John A. Van den Broek, B.S., University of Kansas.
Department of Specialization-Engineering Mechanics.
Dissertation-The Effects of Cold-Working on the
Elastic Properties of Steel.
Marion Clyde Wier, A.B., St. John's College, A.M.,
University of Chicago.
D)epartment of Specialization-Rhetoric.
Dissertation-The   Influence  of  Aeschylus  and
Euripides on the Structure and Content of Swinburne's Atalanta in Calydon and Erechtheus.




286            Annual June Meeting, 1918
Alvalyn  Eunice  Woodward, Ph.B.,  University  of
Rochester, M.S., ibid.
Department of Specialization-Zoology.
Dissertation-Studies in Fertilization.
On motion of Regent Beal, in accordance with the recommnendation of the Faculty of the Medical School, the degree of Doctor of Medicine was voted to the following:

Floyd McJunkin Allen
Jose Alum, A.B.
Charles Edward Anderson, B.S.
Donald Kay Bacon, B.S.
Theodore Swift Barnett, B.S.
Elden Charles Baumgarten,
A.B.
Paul Webley Beaven,.A.B.,
University of Rochester
Clifford Wayne Brainard, B.S.
Robert Ellsworth Brown, A.B.,
University of Illinois, M.S.
(P.H.)
Laura Agnes Buck, A.B.,Syracuse University
Max Ronald Burnell
George J. Bushman, B.S.
John Timon Connell, B.S.
Joseph Rogers Darnall
Herbert Daniel Dieterle, A.B.
Arvid Waldemar Erickson, B.S.
Bert Fellows
John Frederick Edward Foss,
B.S.
Ralph James Frackelton, B.S.
Helen L. B. Gage, B.S.
William John Greenfield, A.B.,
Hope College
Roy Mark Greenthal, B.S.
Glenn Grieve, B.S.
Merit Donald Haag, B.S.
Robert Joseph Hall, B.S.
Campbell Harvey, A.B.
Clyde Knapp Hasley, A.B.
Parker Heath
George Rudolph Herrmann,
B.S.
Lynne Arthur Hoag, B.S., M.S.
Mathias Sylvester Hurth, A.B.,
Valparaiso University
Carroll C. Hyde, B.S., Alvia
College
Herbert Alfred Judson, A.B.,
Park College


Rockwell M. Kempton
Karm Chandra Kerwell
Harry Gustave Lundgren
William Kerr McCandliss, A.B.
Park College
William Rennie McKinnon,
B.M.E.
Jlement Hooven Marshall, B.S.
Donald Manly Morrill, B.S.
Moses Emlmett Morton
Arthur Bernard Norton
Paul Henry Piper, B.S., M.S.
(P.H.)
Harry Jay Prall
Daniel Ignatius Clyde Reynolds,
B.S.
Tom Howard Robertson
John Pirrie Shearer
Edwin Rogers Smith, A.B.
Juan Rodriguez, B.S.
Indiana Unliversitv
James Harold Smith, B.S.
Harry Brooks Spaulding, B.S.,
Oklahomna Agricultural and
iMechanical College
James MAark Stanton
James Russell Stein, B.S.
Jane Darling Stevenson, B.S.
Wrashington Parker Stowe, B.S.,
Ohio Northern Un.iverslty
Chow Foung Tang, B.S.
Lester Claire Todd, A.B.,
Tabor College
Thomas Lawrence Tolan, B.S.
Eugene Frederick Traub, B.S.
Vivian Arthur Van Volkenburgh, B.S.
Ruth Cecilia Wanstrom, A.B.
Robert William Watson
Archibald Henderson Watt
Leland Stanford Welbourn, B.S.
MacNaughton Wilkinson, B.S.,
University of Rochester
Gaillard Peter Willett, B.S.




Annu-al June Meeting, I918


287


Upon motion of Regent Beal, and in accordance with
the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, degrees and teacher's diplomas were voted as follows:BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN MEDICINE)


Theodore Wright Adams
Ralph Edwin Boice
Frederick Augustus Bothe
John Tracy Kaye
Cecil' Arden Kingman
*Augustus Kirchner


Clarence Andrew Kretzschmar
Donald Francis Kudner
Louis Lieber Rosenburg
Henry Takacs


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN FORESTRY)
Walter Sterling Wickliffe,
A.B.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN CHEMISTRY)


**Lorne Adams Collen
Frederick Heinrich Kranz
P-'**Avery Byron Soule


*Harvey McCormick Trimble
William Conrad Weltmann


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE


Stuart Johnson Blashill
*Lucile Crissey
Paul Harold Geiger
Amni Lloyd Johnson
MnBertil Thomelius Larson,
M.D., as of the class of
1915


Harry Gustave Lundgren,
as of the class of 1916
LA Donald Claude MacLachlan
X James Paul Richmond
M John Darling Van Schoick


BACHELOR OF ARTS


Arthur J. Adams
Helen Chandler Ahrens
**Mary Louise Alexander
Cecil Charles Andrews
Walter Ralph Atlas
Margaret Sarah Avery
*Ruth Rachel Avery
**Ruth Lucile Bailey
Coral Alethe Baldwin
Clarence Henry Barnett
Helen Belfield Bates
William  Jacob Baumgartner
Robert Stanley Beach
fFred William Becker
1 With the Colors.
*Graduated "With Distinction."
** Graduated "With High Distinctic


Nellie Augusta Belles
Ruth Augusta Bellows
Maxille Charles Bennett
Iva Rae Bevens
Theodore Frederick Binhammner
Margaret Birdsell
Laura Grace Birmingham
*Abigail Blackburn
Pansy Yolande Blake
Camille Blinstrub
Alberta Lewis Bolen
L Lee Bonar
Helen Margaret Bourke




288


Annual June Meeting, r9I8


Davis Douthett Bovaird
Eva May Bowen
Alan Wilson Boyd
*Henryetta Brandebury
Margaret Branson
teJacob Morton Braude 
Charles J. Bready
**Alexander Brede
Harriet Ann Briggs
Cora Ernestine Bright
Mildred Ruth Britzske
*Gertrude Edith Brock
*Frances Martina Broene
June Rose Brooks
Glyde Vivian Brown
Helen Sarah Brown
James Colonel Brown
Raymond Russell Brown
Vera Hazel Brown
Josephine Louise Bruce
Beulah Aileen Brush
*Dorothy Therese Buckley
Charles Elbert Buell
*Helen Pearl Bullis
Alice. Mary Burtless
Helen Clara Camins
f-John Evens Campbell
*Morse Duncan Campbell
**Laura Angeline Cannon
*Lucy May Cannon
Iva Victoria Carlson
Ruth Miriam Carpenter
Virginia Grace Cavendish
Marcus Chadwick
Ruth Ayres Chadwick
*Paulene Martha Champlin
g-*Ernest Knight Chapin
Charles Leon Charpiot
Dorothy Kathryne Chester
**Ann Christenson
Jessie Eldora Clark
*Marjory Julia Cleary
*Pauline Harriet Cohen
Hermione Winfred Cohn
*Lucille Minerva Colby
*Eva Lorena Cole
*Nan McGle.nnon Comstock
Catharine Casta Connell
Edna Mae Cook
**Margaret Horton Cooley
Mary Archer Copeland
Winifred Helen Corcoran
f With the Colors.
Graduated "With Distinction."
** Graduated "With High Distincti


*Mary Elizabeth Covell
Nettie Alma Cowin
Gladys Irene Cozadd
-- Lionel George Crocker
*Margaret Elizabeth Cronin
fArmando Daniel Cusicanqui
Winifred Davy
Marelka Catherine Dengler
*Howard Arthur Dennee
Alonzo Benjamin DeSpelder
Eva Lillian Dockeray
Daphne Alice Dodds
N Gustavus Donald
Lois Evelyn Donaldson
Howard Albert Donnelly
Margaret Douglas:.Otto Henry Eberwein
Grace Ellen Edwards
ft**Arthur William   Ehrlicher
Walter George Elsnau
Ernest Lawrence Emmerson
Marguerite Helena Eness
Samuel Paul Epstein
Margaret Beatrice Fales
Helen Claytus Fergason
Lois Armyne Fischer
Florence Dwier Fitzpatrick
Wilma Flack
Anton Gerard Flieger
Hilda Maria Flink
Helen Edith Fox
Orpha Ennest Fralick
Marian Frisbie
Arthur Gerald Gabriel
Marion Charlotte Galton
NI Herbert William Giessing
Helen Gertrude Gifford
Helen Beatrice Gillespie
- Joseph Herman Ginsburg
-John Frederick Gipner
Beatrice Irene Girvin
Graham Gleysteen
**Lynn Amariah Glover
Minnie Goehring
Mildred Paxton Hill Gormsen
I Robert Benjamin Gotfredson
Louise Josephine Gould
Helen Dale Grable
Gladys Elfreda Greening, Arthur Abraham Guettel
*-Olive Irene Hagen




Annwtal June Meetilng, I9I8


289


Mabel Louise Hall
Paul Martin Haller
Sue Cleveland Hamilton
Kathryn Frances Handibo
Isabel Warner Hardie
Katherine Wells Harrington
Irene Eva Hartsuff
Alice Evelyn Hartzler
Edith Marion Harvey
Louise Nellie Hatch
*Geneva Katharine Hayes
Ruth Agnes Hebblewhite
Dewey Ralph Heetderks
**Margaret Henderson
1 Hermann Henze
Bertha Anne Hesse
Florence Hettinger
*Zora Nell Hickox
Cora Michalene Hiens
Lawrence Davison Hiett
Marguerite Mary Hill
Marion Louise Holden
aMerwin Ritchie Holtzman
Roy Cash Horine
MAlbert Edward Home, Jr.
Merle Franscina Horner
**Roland Fountain Hussey
Ruth Evelyn Huston
Arthur George Ippel
Louise Adelia Irish.*Laylin Knox James
Maybelle James
Emma Ferne Jensen
Ethel Louise Jocelyn
Moneta Gunilla Johnson
Cecil Adelle Johnston
Dorothy Merle Johnston
Laura Josephine Jones
*Milda Charlotte Josenhans
George Wagoner Keller
Nina Mae Kellogg
**Charlotte Badger Kelsey
Ruth Cornelia Kelsey
*Elizabeth Maude Kemp
Vivienne Marguerite Kerr
**Christina Kersey
Vera Kathlyn Keyser
Edna Ruth Kidman
*Jeannette Maud Kiekintveld
Harriet Jeannette Kimball
M-Arthur Loomis Kirkpatrick
With the Colors.
* Graduated "With Distinction."
** Graduated "With High Distinctio


Frederick Augustus Klann
as of the class of 1917
*Margaret Elizabeth Benskin
Klein
**Marion Klingler
Vivian Loada Klingler
Russell John Knapp
Alice Kraft
Bernard Gustave Krause
John Allen Krout
Leslie William  Kunkel
Zelma Eilene Lamb,Selwyn Arthur Lambert
Blanche Elizabeth Lane
Lillian Phoebe Lassey
Arlene Elizabeth Lawrence
Esther Irene Layton
M Stanford Leffen
Eleanor Vandervere Leighton
Nellie Brokaw Leonard
Feng Chu Liu
Anna Mary Lloyd
**Pearl Enid Lockhart
Frances Mary Lyon
Marie Claire Macaulay
Clarissa McCollom
Edith Russell McCormick
Donald Breslin McCruden
Elizabeth McDonald
*Isabel MacDonald
Mary. McLellan McDonald
A- Robert Talmadge McDonald
Ursula McDonald
Duncombe Arthur MacInnes
Gordon Charles Mack
Florella Lowry Mackay
Harold Swift McKennan
Ruth Katherine Mackin
Ruth Hadley MacLachlan
**Weltha A McLachlan
Freida Marie McLellan
**Olive Annette McLouth. George Porter McMahon
Catherine Moreland MacNaughton
Egon Lothar Paul Mallick
Lois Ethelyn May
Elizabeth Celestia Mechem
Albert Douglas Menut
Anna Belle Mercer
Roland Frederick Merner
*iM~ildred Currey Mighell




290


Antnual June Meeting, 91r8


Anna Miller
Helen Mildred Miller
r-Kirk Radcliffe Millhoff:*Robert Thornhill Monroe
Paul McNary Moore, Jr.
Nona Gladys Myers
Loraine Olive Myll
t         **Carl William Neumann
Wilfred Nevue
Rachel Helen Nipps
Ruth Geraldine Norton
Albert Philip Ohlmacher
F-Jacob Olthbff
Florence Bell Orwig
Philip Clarkson Pack
Zilpha Roberta Pallister
Falice Gray Parker
Anne Beaumont Parks
Elizabeth Patchin
Dorothy Evelyn Patterson
Robert Chase Patterson
Marie Seville Paulus
Ferdinand Warsawj auifnni
Penn!-^ Kenneth Joseph Perry
Olga Christine Perschbacher
Mary Elizabeth Pfeiffer
Clara Marie Phelps,Dorothy Elizabeth Pierce
*Genette Elizabeth Pixley
Joseph Wilmer Planck
Richard Otto Poch
Alice Edna Pottinger
Alvaretta Rosella Pottinger
Meta KatherinTe Prange
Florence Marie Price
Dorothy Louise Probst
**Lucile Harrison Quarry
Valora Frances Quinlan
Grace Wayne Raynsford
Martha Marie Reardon
James Dryden Reeder
Tasper Braley Reid
Francis DeTar Reider
Phyllis Mary Richardson
**Lavanche Genevieve Rieger
*ITames Allen Rings
*Bertha Mollie Robinson
Ruth Marion Robson
Clarissa Hunderman Rooks
Florence Rachel Rosenthal
Ruth Paulina Rosevelt
a With the Colors.
G* raduated "With Distinction."
** Graduated "With High Distincti(


Hazel Myrll Rubert
Lyman George Rupp
Adelaide Russell
Nelson Vance Russell
Thomas Milton Rybolt
**Lena Margaret Sackett
Mabel Sanborn
**May Sanders
Jessie Louise Saunders
H-ester Gertrude Schaberg
James Schermerhorn, Jr.
John Bareld Schoolland
'- Woldemar Frederick Schreiber
Vera Esther Schuknecht
f Leman Haywood Scott
Hazel Swinburne Selby
Amy Gertrude Sergeant
Myrtie Marguerite Sessions
John Parks Shand
Olive Belle Sheldon
Lowella Ruth Sherrod
Mildred Stockton Shilling
Allen Shoenfield
John Arthur Skoog
Herva Madeleine Slaght
Beulah Smith
*Katherine Inglis Smith
Ti William Rowland Sobesky
Axel Sigfrid Soderman!- James Granville Southworth
Anina Catherine Staeb
Ethel Irene Steele
H Tarry Michael Steffey
Harold Christian Stenson
Donald Carr Stimson
N Merle Charles Stitt
** ay Stough
Hulda Wilhelmina Stroebel
Margaret May Stuim
Rose Babetta Stussi
David Israel Sugar
Frederick Mayhew Sutter
iBruce Alexander Swaney
Hugh Roger Thomas
Mary Henrietta Tischer
Gladys Leona Townsend
Martha Ann Townsend
*Warren Hamlyn Townsend
Zvlphia Adell Traviss
Margaret Louise Tremaine
Adelaide Louise Tuttle




Annual June M/eeting, 1918


29I


**Bessie Andrus Vandeventer.I John Van Oosten
Clarissa Dorothy Vyn
Lewis Patrick Waldo
1' Frank Elliott Walker
Lewis William   Walker
Portia Walker
Marie Pauline Emily von
Walthausen
Florence Katherine Walz
Harry Alexander Wellford
Henrietta Peterson Wellford
Helena Lois Wessinger
Leila Ethel Wheeler


*Myrtle May White
Jessie Elizabeth Whitney
Nelle Lavela Wilkinson
Marian Williams
Louise Berry Williamson
Lu Willson
Herbert George Wilson
Constance Mabel Winchell
Ray Elizabeth Wise
-Alice Margaret Woessner
Sara Riford Worth
Alice Maud Worun
*Margaret Wylie
Margaret Allida Yerkes


TEACHER'S DIPLOMA


Doris Alma Adair
Mary Louise Alexander
Margaret Sarah Avery
Ruth Rachel Avery
Ruth Lucile Bailey
Harry Jay Baker
Coral Alethe Baldwin
William Jacob Baumgartner
Nellie Augusta Belles
Ruth Augusta Bellows
Theodore Frederick Binhanmmer
Margaret Birdsell
Abigail Blackburn
Pansy Yolande Blake
Camille Blinstrub
Alherta Lewis Bolen
Helen Margaret Bourke
Eva May Bowen
Henryetta Brandebury
Mildred Ruth 1Britzske
Gertrude Edith Brock
June Rose Brooks
Glvde Vivian Brown
Helen Sarah Brown
Josephine Louise Bruce
Beulah Aileen Brush
Dorothv Therese Buckley
Helen Pearl Bullis
Helen Clara Camins
Laura Angeline Cannon
T.lucy MTay Cannon
Tva Victoria Carlson
Riuth Miriam Carpenter
'Virginia Grace Cavendish
Charles Leon Charpiot


Dorothy Kathryne Chester
Hermione Winfred Cohn
Eva Lorena Cole
Lorne Adams Collen
Catharine Casta Connell
Edna May Cook
Winifred Helen Corcoran
Nettie Alma Cowin
Gladys Irene Cozadd
Margaret Elizabeth Cronin
rWinifred Davy
Marelka Catherine Dengler
Eva Lillian Dockeray
Gustavus Donald
Lois Evelyn Donaldson
Howard Albert Donnelly
Margaret Douglas
Grace Ellen Edwards
Marguerite Helena Eness
Samuel Paul Epstein
Margaret Beatrice Fales
Helen Claytus Fergason
Lois Armyne Fischer
Florence Dwier Fitzpatrick
Wilma Flack
Hilda Maria Flink
Helen Edith Fox
Orpha Ennest Fralick
M\arian Frisbie
Marion Charlotte Galton
Helen Gertrude Gifford
Beatrice Irene Girvin
Minnie Goehring
Louise Josephine Gould
Gladys Elfreda Greening


M With the Colors.
* Graduated "With Distinction."
** Graduated "With High Distinction."




292


Alnnzual June Meeting, 1918


Nellie Elizabeth Grohe
Mabel Louise Hall
Kathryn Frances Handibo
Isabel Warner Hardie
Edith Marion Harvey
Louise Nellie Hatch
Geneva Katharine Hayes
Margaret Henderson
Bertha Anne Hesse
Florence Hettinger
Marguerite Mary Hill
Marion Louise Holden
Roy Cash Horine
Ruth Evelyn Huston
Louise Adelia Irish
Laylin Knox James
Maybelle James
Emma Ferne Jensen
Ethel Louise Jocelyn
Moneta Gunilla Johnson
Cecil Adelle Johnston
Dorothy Merle Johnston
Laura Josephine Jones
Milda Charlotte Josenhans
Nina Mae Kellogg
Elizabeth Maude Kemp
Vivienne Marguerite Kerr
Vera Kathlyn Keyser
Edna Ruth Kidman
-3Iarriet Jeannette Kimball
Vivian Loada Klingler
Zelma Eilene Lamb
Blanche Elizabeth Lane
Lillian Phoebe Lassey
A.rlene Elizabeth Lawrence
Nellie Brokaw Leonard
Pearl Enid Lockhart
Marie Claire Macaulay
Clarissa McCollom
Edith Russell McCormick
Isabel McDonald
Florella Lowry Mackay
Donald Claude MacLachlan
Ruth Hadley MacLachlan
Frieda Marie McLellan
Olive Annette McLouth
Catherine Moreland MacNaughton
Lois Ethelyn May
Elizabeth Celestia Mechem
Anna Belle Mercer
Helen Mildred Miller
Nona Gladys Myers
Loraine Olive Myll
Wilfred Nevue


Helen Louise Nicholson
Ruth Geraldine Norton
Jacob Olthoff
Florence Bell Orwig
Falice Gray Parker
Mary Parker
Elizabeth Patchin
Dorothy Evelyn Patterson
Marie Seville Paulus
Kenneth Joseph Perry
Olga Christine Perschbacher
Mary Elizabeth Pfeiffer
Clara Marie Phelps
Dorothy Elizabeth Pierce
Alice Edna Pottinger
Alvaretta Rosella Pottinger
Meta Katherine Prange
Valora Frances Quinlan
Grace Wayne Raynsford
Martha Marie Reardon
James Paul Richmond
Lavanche Genevieve Rieger
Ruth Marion.Robson
Clarissa Hunderman Rooks
Florence Rachel Rosenthal
Ruth Pauline Rosevelt
Hazel Myrll Rubert
Nelson Vance Russell
Lena Margaret Sackett
Mabel Sanborn
May Sanders
Hester Gertrude Schaberg
Vera Esther Schuknecht
Hazel Swinburne Selby
Amy Gertrude Sergeant
Myrtie Marguerite Sessions
John Parks Shand
Olive Belle Sheldon
Mildred Stockton Shilling
Herva Madeleine Slaght
Katherine Inglis Smith
William Rowland Sobesky
Avery Byron Soule
Anna Catherine Staeb
Ethel Irene Steele
Hulda Wilhelmina Stroebel
Mary Henrietta Tischer
Hugh Roger Thomas
Gladys Leona Townsend
Martha Ann Townsend
AWarren Hamlyn Townsend
Margaret Louise Tremaine
Adelaide Louise Tuttle
John Van Oosten
Margaret Gates Vogel




Annual June Meeting, 9II8


293


Clarissa Dorothy Vyn
Lewis Patrick Waldo
Portia Walker
Marie Pauline Emily von
Walthausen
Florence Katherine Walz
Henrietta Peterson Wellford
Helena Lois Wessinger
Jessie Elizabeth Whitney


Nelle Lavela Wilkinson
Louise Berry Williamson
Lu Willson
Ray Elizabeth Wise
Alice Margaret Woessner
Alice Maud Worun
Sara Riford Worth
Margaret Wylie
Margaret Allida Yerkes


On motion of Regent Leland, and in accordance with
the recommendation of the Faculty of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture, degrees were voted as follows:BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ARCHITECTURE
ARCHITECTURAL ENGINEERING


Ralph Lessing Bauer
Raye Claus Eastman
f Rudolph Kruger
George Rolland Long
A]
Edward Paul Backstrom
Carl Ludwig Baumann
'Alfred Ewald Bergmann
Hiram Joseph Hamer


Arnold Alden Merica? Stanley Thompson Mills,
B.C.E.


RCHITECTURE
Raymond George Jepson
f.Laurence Tucker Ray
Frederick Gustavus Strauss
Lloyd Wilson Worden


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING


Nevin Charles Barnes
M James Harold Galloway


" Lawrence Vincent Kerber. Walter Austin Maynard


NAVAL ARCHITECTURE AND MARINE ENGINEERING


ftElmer Cameron Burns..Francis Gabriel Healy
-Carl Frederick Mayer
tPetter George Petterson
"S Harold Franklin Robinson


Herman August Seeger, Harold Mitchell Stephen
% Clark Swartfiguer
t Henry Taylor


CHEMICAL ENGINEERING


Loren Orville Blunt
Yu Chang Chen
I Harold Moses Cherry
AEverett Gustaf Fahlman
Edwin John Fettig
Dorothy Hall.George Fred Kronbach, 2nd
Wing Chung Kwong
>.<Cyril Blackmore Lewis. With the Colors.


Peter Leong Lim
I Cecil Albert Norton
Warren Williams Otis
Samuel Towle Page
- Stephen Gay Pratt
m Clarence Homer Stump
Adolph William Frederick
Wendler
Philip Johnson Wilson, Jr.




294


Annual June Meeting, I918
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING


Clarke Lodge Bassett
1 Philip Carroll, Jr.
George Albert Clark
f Harold Wilson Collins
William Harry Collins
- Thomas Wilson Conant.Amos Clarendon Connell,
A.B., Olivet College
F Ralph H. Cook
Vt Clifford Hill Cramer
T Melvin Darke Engle
jJames Ferdinand Fairman
T Edward Bradford Featherstone
-George Harry Fong. Wendell VanTluyl Gorton
fW\allace Reynolds Harvey
Oscar Ernest Hauser


George Walter Hegel
f Milo Wilt Hyde
William Hals Jensen.John Jennings Kilmer
-Herman Clyde Krapf
Jay Lenick
M- Herbert William Lincoln
- Alan Varley Livingston: Loyal Ross Milburn. Carl Frank Myers
MAlfred Thomas Newbold
Burr Kenneth Osborn
- Charles Y. Osburn
Robert Chester Parks
-FEarl Edward Raymond: William George Stuefer
f Donald Corbly West
Norman Stoll Yost


MECHANICAL ENGINEERING


t    Stephen Stanley Attwood
l- Cordon Robert Avery
N Charles Burton Barnard
Karl Bintz
l Walter George Brayer
N -Robert Craig Corlett
Charles Henry Doherty Jr.. Joseph Horace Drake, Jr.,
A.B.
fiElbridge Gerry Dudley
- Francis Joseph Foley
Charles Winfred Good
Charles Henry Graff
V William Francis Guinan
Charles W\illiam Gustavus
N Eugene Michael Haley
Howard Bertram     Haskins
- Tohn Davis Hibbard
Frank Edward Jagodzinski


'V William Gordon Johnstone
N Julius Klein!-Raymond lMoses Langley
rAllan Miles McConnell
PR.oland Howard Marker
t Whitley Benjamin   Moore
tDwight Gerald Moorhead.-. LaVerne Olsen
Stanislas Ludomir Orzechowski
- Millis Vincent Parshall
N\Wallace James Piggott
PHarry Thomas Porter
Frank Ensign Richardson
hJames Harrison Sharpe
~-Paton Carlyle Stephen
eleo Tattersall
Norman Thrift. Thurston
Milton Jerome Weed


CIVIL ENGINEERING


l% Milton Pray Adams
"Edwin Ryan Akers
Juan Ramon Alcayaga
Robert William Bame
b Orris Bonney, Jr.
" Isaac Hugh Buchman
- Ralph Howe Cady
t With the Colors.


Russell Alger Cole
Harold Tuttle Corson
f Eugene Thompson Cranch. Willis Viertelle Curtiss
Martin DeRuiter
VWilliam Starrett Dinwiddie
Robert Herman Erley




Ati nual Jriuc Meeting, 1918 


295


Aquiles Gatti
~ aWelland Gay
~ Walter Robert Gross
Clarence Arthur Hart
Aboul Hassan
NlDonald Monroe Hatch:-Robert Alien Kimberley
Frank Joseph Charles Kortick
William Colon Lemon
Ramon Esquivel Merino
Eduard Fred Metz
Harold Fay Newcomer
N Garson Prenner
Howard Wilbert Reindel
Carl Herman Ruch


-tECarlton Richard Sabin
F. Elmer Clarence Schacht
t.Edward' Merl Schaffter
Jacob Lewis Schnitz
1 Ward Benjamin Sickler
" Cyril Benjamin Starring
Marian L. Sturgis
Paul Amos Vickers
tForrest Edward Weber
Dorothy Battin Sturgeon
Woodbury
r Charles Henry Woodward
Clarence Wilmer Wright
Wing Tong Young


Dean Cooley transmitted to the Board a list of students
whom he had excused from attendance at the Commencement exercises.
On motion of Regent Gore, and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the Law School, degrees
were voted as follows:BACHELOR 01' LAWS


John Quincy Adams, A.B.
Merchant Bliss Bowman;kJames Henry Cartwright, Jr.,
A.B., Lelanad Stanford Unizversity
t-John Paul Colden
Joseph Baker Comstock,
A.B., Dartmouth College
John Vincent Cotton, A.B.,
CncItre College
Kenneth Keith Cox
Jay Lionel Downing
as of the class of 1914
r Harold Mulkey Easley, A.B.. Raymond Archibald Fox
Walter WAilliam Harris, A.B.,
Blucknll University, A.M.,
ibid
f Henry Curtis Hart, A.B.,
Kalalmaz'oo College
George Francis Hurley, A.B.
John Francis Jordan, A.B.
t William Stephan Kammerer
With the Colors.


Thomas Stoner Kerr, A.B.,
Indiana University
Frank Sidney Kremer, B.S.,
South Dakota State College
Athol Eugene Later
Myer Barnett Lavine
N Hector Arthur McCrimmon
William Fish Marsteller, Licencie es-sciences sociales,
Genteva, Swit.zerland
Joseph Meyer
mHerman Rudolph Miller
Marcus Randall Morton
M John James Poleski
Alexis James Rogoski
James Elwood Ryan
Harland Jay Scarborough,
A.B., 4Antioch College
NFrederick Vernon Slocum,
A.B.
Edward Otis Snethen, A.B.,
Mlarion College




296


Annual June Meeting, i918


JURIS DOCTOR
tLucius Comstock Boltwood,        David Isadore Hubar, A.B.
A.B., Yale University         Alonzo Clemens Ruihley,
Leland Stanford Forrest,          A.B., Miami University
A.B., UniJversity of Ark-       James William Thomas, A.B.
ansas                         William Wallace Visscher,
Melvin Ralph Gombrig, A.B.        A.B., Hope College
The following communication from      Professor Louis A.
Hopkins, Secretary of the Colleges of Engineering and
Architecture, was transmitted     to the   Board   by   Dean
Cooley:DEAN M. E. COOLEY,
College of Engineering,
University of Michigan.
DEAR SIR:May I through you request from the Board of Regents
permission for the administration of the University of Michigan Training Detachment to use the Engineering Buildings for a special volunteer night school which it proposes
to organize for the soldiers of the present Detachment?
The following members of the Faculty have to date
offered to teach, without compensation, whatever courses
may be selected: Dr. Sauer, Professor Karpinski, Dr. A. L.
Nelson, Dr. Rouse, Assistant Professor Nelson and staff,
Professor Canfield and staff, Professor Lorch and staff,
Professor Goulding and staff, Professor Hawley, Mr.
Eriksen, and Dr. Forsythe. Evidently there will be no lack
of instructors for whatever courses it may seem advisable
to give.
This night school is frankly an experiment, but we are
anxious to use the resources of the University wherever
possible to make the time of these soldiers spent here most
profitable. This night school is a natural first suggestion.
Very truly yours,
LoUIS A. HOPKINS
On motion of Regent Leland, the proposal for the night
school received the approval of the Regents with the understanding that expense to the University would not be involved.
AWith the Colors.




Annuial June Meetitng, I9I8


297


On motion of Regent Leland, the following resolution
of the Faculty of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture received the approval of the Board:Resolved, That Chemical Engineering gm, Gas and Fuel
Testing, one hour, be made a required course in Mechanical Engineering.
On motion of Regent Gore, the following communication was referred to the Deans of the several Schools and
Colleges for investigation and report to the Regents:PRESIDENT H. B. HUTCHINS,
University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
DEAR MR. PRESIDENT:The undersigned have had sufficiently close contact
with students to fully appreciate the advisability of establishing a center where advice may be given relative to
training for life work. Students should be able to meet the
best advisers that can be found. At present no systematic
study is given to this important matter and students obtain
their advice from their associates or often from members of
the faculty who are not closely in touch with the many
fields of activity which should concern university men. It
is realized that after a student has determined the course he
is to pursue, he will obtain his best advice from the head of
the department of specialization and nothing should be
done to interfere therewith. The work we propose is more
general and more fundamental. In order that a plan may be
before you for your consideration, the following outline is
suggested:I. The Social Secretary of the Michigan Union shall be
chairman of a Committee on Vocational Advice. Other
members of the committee, not more than two or four, shall
be selected by the President of the University and the chairman of the committee.
2. The office of the committee shall be in the Michigan
Union Building and some representative of the committee
shall be available to students at regularly specified periods.
3. The committee shall have authority to select an
adviser, or advisers, for any student making application




298


Annu1al.ulle Meeting, I918


therefor and to make such appointments between student and
advisers as may be necessary. Advisers may be members
of the various faculties of the University or men of affairs
in Ann Arbor or elsewhere. The committee shall keep some
record of the service thus performed by advisers and lend
such aid and encouragement to them as the Michigan Union
may be able to afford. The committee should have entire
freedom in selecting advisers, who are willing to serve, and
in eliminating those who fail to meet students and furnish
the assistance they may need.
Respectfully,
LEROY WATERMAN
WARREN E. FORSYTHE
N. C. FETTER, JR.
On motion of Regent Beal, the petitions received from
certain students for the raising of a committee to assist
alumnae and women students of the University in finding
positions in other than the field of teaching, which petitions
were referred to the Finance Committee for report, at the
meeting of June 14, were in turn referred to the Deans of
the several Schools and Colleges for investigation and report to the Board.  (See page 241).
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board referred to the
Executive Committee, with power, the request of Professor
Warren P. Lombard for the appointment of Dr. Otis M.
Cope, at present Instructor in Physiology, to an Acting Assistant Professorship of Physiology, with salary of $2,000
for the year I918-I9I9.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board fixed the salary
of George Lutz, Jr., Accountant in the Hygienic Laboratory, at $1,200 per year, beginning July I.
On motion of Regent Beal, the title of Mr. Philip E.
Bursley, Instructor in French, was changed to "Assistant
Professor of French."   Further, in accordance with Mr.
Bursley's desire he was given leave of absence, without
salary, in order that he might take up work in connection
with the American University Union in Paris.
On motion of Regent Beal, the title of Mr. Herbert S.
Mallory, Instructor in Rhetoric, was changed to "Assistant
Professor of Rhetoric."




Annual June Meeting, 19i8


299


The following communication was received:To the Honorable Board of Regents,
University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEN:
The churches and student organizations of Ann Arbor,
whose signatures are affixed below, petition the Honorable
Board of Regents of the University of Michigan, for the use
of the Hill Auditorium for not less than four and not more
than six services, to be held on Sunday evenings during the
first semester of the University year beginning next October.
These services will be announced as inter-denominational in character and will not represent any special church
or particular creed.
These services will be under the auspices of the Federation of Religious Workers who will furnish the speakers
and defray all expense of advertising.
The University Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. have
agreed to reinforce these services by agressive plans through
which the entire student body of the University will be
notified and earnestly invited to attend.
No offering is to be taken at any of the services.
The dates agreed upon by the Federation are as follows: October 13, October 27, November Io, November 24,
December I5, and January 12.
Respectfully submitted,
For the Federation of Religious Workers in Ann Arbor:
LEONARD A. BARRETT, Chairman of Committee
LLOYD C. DOUGLAS, Congregational Church
EDWARD H. KRAUS, Methodist Church
LEONARD A. BARRETT, Presbyterian Church
J. M\l. WELLS, Baptist Church
F. P. ARTHUR, Disciples Church
I. LEo SHARFMAN, Jewish Congregation
LLOYD M\. WALLICK, Trinity Lutheran Church
N. C. FETTER, JR., Y. M. C. A., Y. W. C. A.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the request was granted
in accordance with the conditions named therein.
On motion of Regent Peal, and in accordance with the
approval of the Faculty of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the following resolution was adopted:Resolved, That certificates in Business Administration shall be hereafter voted by the Faculty of the College




.30iAnnual Jlune Meeting, Q918


300


of Literature, Science, and the Arts, on recommendation
of the Department of Economics, and issued through the
office of the Secretary of the University, in accordance
with the procedure now followed in case of the Teacher's
Diploma, the same special fee of $2.00 also being charged as'
in the case of the Teacher's Diploma.
Dean Cooley and Professor John C. Parker, came before the Board. Dean Cooley stated that the War Department Committee on Education and Special Training desired
certain informational lectures dealing with the causes of
the war to be given to members of the Training Detachment. The War Department was willing to add i IA cents per
day per man to the contract terms for such service. On motion of Regent Leland, the Board approved the acceptance
of the plan, with such modification of contract as necessary.
The President was authorized to appoint men to give the
lectures.
Dean Cooley reported a request of the War Department
that three hundred men from the Signal Corps might be
given technical training at the University. The Dean stated
that housing and feeding arrangements could be made. This
matter was referred to the Military Committee of the
Board, and the President and Secretary, with power.
Dean Cooley and Professor Parker withdrew.
Regent Leland made a statement with respect to property owned by the Regents in Baltimore, as part of the Octavia Bates bequest.  On motion of Regent Leland, the
question of disposing of two houses forming a part of this
property, was referred to Regent Murfin and the Secretary, with instructions to investigate and report.
Captain R. H. Durkee, in command of the Army Training Detachment, appeared and considered with the Board
certain questions growing out of the administration of
soldiers' recreation tents erected upon the Campus.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board voted that should
the City of Ann Arbor assess a tax against the property
acquired by deed of gift from Mr. H. H. Herbst (see
pages 176-I80) such taxes should be paid by the University,
but under protest in written form prepared by the attorneys
of the Board.




Annulal June Meeting, J9I8         30I
The Secretary reported that the War Department Committee upon Education and Vocational Training desired to
increase the number of men in any further detachments
sent. The matters involved in this request were all referred to the Military Committee of the Board and to the
President and Secretary, with power to act.
All the above actions were by unanimous vote.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board adjourned to
July I9, I918, at 9:30 A. M.
SHIRLMY W. SMITH,
Secretary.




302


A Pnnioual.Th1c Meetilzc/, I9p8


APPENDIX A
HONORARY DEGREES
Voted May 3 (see page 235) and June 14 (see page 239)
and conferred June 27, 1918
I
MASTER OF ARTS
JESSE BUTTRICK DAVIS, a graduate of Colgate University in the class of 1895; at present Principal of the Central
High School, Grand Rapids, Michigan; a leader in the
secondary education of the State and distinguished particularly for his work in the field of vocational guidance.
BRUTruS.UNIUS CLAY, a graduate of the University of
Michigan, with the degree of Civil Engineer, in the class
of I868; a man of large business interests in the South
and West; United States Commissioner to the Paris Exposition, 1900, and Envoy Extraordinary and Mlinister Plenipotentiary to Switzerland from 1905 to I91o.
II
MASTER OF ENGINEERING
JAMES BERRY FooTE, consulting engineer of the Consumers' Power Company of Michigan; a distinguished leader in the development of long-distance transmission of electrical energy. Under him the economical distance has been
increased from twenty to three hundred miles. Through'
his genius distant water power has been brought to our
very door.
III
DOCTOR O1R ENGINEERING
GARDNER FRED WILLIIAMS, a graduate of the College of
California, now the University of California, in I865; distinguished as a mining engineer. After a brilliant career
in connection with various mines in the far west, he became an engineer of the world in the gold mines of the




Annutal Jzune Mleeting, 1918


~303


Transvaal, reaching the apex of his fame as General Manager of the De Beers Company, later the De Beers Consolidated Mines, organized by Cecil Rhodes and others; author
of "The Diamond Mlines of South Africa" and "The
Genesis of the Diamond."   Born in Saginaw, a son of
Michigan whom the University is proud to honor.
IV
DOCTOR (01 SCIENCE
HERBERT SPENCER JENNINGS, a graduate of the University of Michigan in the class of 1893; for three years a member of the Faculty of the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, Universityof Michigan. Since 1910, Professor of
Zoology and Director of the Zoological Laboratory, Johns
Hopkins University.  Distinguished as a naturalist and
particularly for research work on the physiology of microorganisms and animal behavior; a member of numerous
national and international scientific societies and an author
of recognized merit in the field of his specialty.
V
DOCTOR OF LETTERS
M/. STEPHANE LAUZANNE, editor in chief of the great
Parisian newspaper, Le Mlati;, menber of the French
High Commission to the United States; at present Director of the Official Bureau of French Information in
this country, in which capacity he is doing work of supreme
importance for the cause of the allies. Called by his government from the trenches at Verdun to duties in the Foreign
Office, his skilled diplomatic work has been of the greatest value to France and to the United States. Editor, author, orator, patriot, distinguished representative of our
brave and unfaltering sister Republic.
VI
DOCTOR OF LAWS
WrILrI.IM Lowr, BRYAN, President of the University of
Indiana since 1902. Distinguished both for his qualities as
teacher and scholar and for his force and effectiveness as a
university administrator. Under his wise leadership the
University over which he presides has enjoyed a period of




304             Annual.June Meeting, 19i8
unusual prosperity. The authorities of the University of
Michigan gladly take advantage of this opportunity to enroll President Bryan in our list of alumni.
SIR ROBERT ALEXANDER FALCONER, President of the University of Toronto. An educator of sterling worth and large
and varied experience. His vigorous and wise administration of the affairs of the University of which he is the head,
has brought to him distinguished recognition. A leader in
the war activities of the Dominion, he has heartened his
countrymen by his eloquent and forceful addresses and by
his clear and vigorous contributions upon the issues of the
world struggle. In honoring him, Michigan honors herself.
JAMES M/ONTGOMERY BECK, of the New      York Bar,
formerly United States Attorney for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania and from I900 to I903 Assistant Attorney
General of the United States. A lawyer of national reputation who has argued many cases of great public importance
in the Federal Supreme Court; formerly General Counsel
for the American Sugar Refining Company. Although continually representing large interests, he finds the time to
make himself familiar with public problems of the day and
to aid in their solution. Through his patriotic writings and
his eloquent, logical, and forceful public addresses upon the
world war, he has clarified the issues and fixed responsibility
in a masterly manner. He who reads or listens cannot fail
to understand.
MAJOR-GENERAL LEONARD WOOD, of the United States
Army. Distinguished for his gallant and effective service in
the Spanish War; for his wise and vigorous and thorough
administration as Military Governor of Cuba; for his noteworthy career in the Philippines; for his services as Special
Ambassador to the Argentine Republic; for constructive
work in re-organization, of a high order, while Chief of
Staff; and notably for his earnest, continued, courageous,
and patriotic efforts for greater military preparedness. An
American through and through, a brave soldier of proved
ability, whose record is made up of an unbroken series of
marked successes, he has the affectionate regard and the
unbounded confidence of his fellow countrymen. To honor
him is a distinguished honor for the University.




JULY MEETING
UNIVERSITY OIF MICHIGAN, )
ANN ARBOR, July 19, I918 
The Board met in the Regents' Room at 10:30 A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Gore, Regent Murfin,
and Regent Sawyer. Absent,.Regent Hanchett and Superintendent Keeler.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the
meetings of June 14 and June 25 were approved as submitted to the members in proof, with corrections on pages
239, 240, 242,,244, 245, 249, 250, 251, 252, 253, 256, 264,
265, 271, 273, 274, 275. 277, 28I, 282, 284, 285, 297, and 304.
The Secretary stated that it had been necessary in order
to avoid paying a largely increased price should a sterilizer
for the University laundry be purchased later, to decide the
question of the purchase of this apparatus at once (see page
240). On advice of Regent Sawyer and Regent Beal of
the Executive Committee, the purchase had been made in
accordance with the amount allowed in the budget. The
Board informally approved this action.
The President presented a communication which he
had received from the Secretary of War relative to a proposed plan for enlarged military instructions for college students during the War emergency. There was considerable
discussion of the proposed plan and its possible relationship
to the present military work of the University and to the
regular University program. On motion of Regent Clements, the Board voted that all the problems involved in
military instruction of University students should be referred with power if all respects to the Executive Committee and the Military Committee of the Board.
On motion of Regent Gore (see page 253).the Board
adopted the following resolution:



306


JULY MEETING, I918


RESOLVED, That it is the sense of the Regents that University students sent to the Hospitals of the University by
the Health Service should not, without the consent of
said students or their proper representatives, be used as
clinical material-for the instruction of students in'the Medical Schools.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board authorized
the expenditure of not to exceed $6oo for enlarging the
offices of the Department of Education, in Tappan Hall.
Regent Clements stated that it had proved more feasible to
remove from Tappan Hall some of the classes in Education
than to remove the quarters of the Department of Astronomy, and that Astronomy had therefore continued in Tappan Hall while a portion of the work in Education had been
transferred to the Science Building (see page 270).
The Secretary reported that the question of liability in
the case of damage to persons or property by automobiles
driven by students or teachers in the United States Army
Training Detachment, had been taken up with Captain
Buell, Inspector for the War Department, who had been
in Ann Arbor, July 13. Captain Buell had stated that the
Federal Government would relieve the University from liability by taking ownership of all automobiles used in this
work. The Secretary further reported that men upon the
University's pay roll as Instructors in the work of the Training Detachment had 'been, by agreement with the agent of
the insurance company, covered by the Workmen's Compensation policy carried.by the Regents (see pages 279 and
280). The report made by the Secretary was informally
approved.
The Secretary read the following report which, on motion of Regent Murfin,- was approved and adopted: —
To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your committee to which there were referred at the
meeting of June I4' (see page 256) certain q.uestions relative to pre-excused absences, and compensation during
the same period, at the end of a semester, and also the
question of the date at which extra compensation should begin in the case of members of the Faculty assigned to special
and heavy duties in connection with the work of the United




JULY MEETING, 1918


307


States Army Training Detachment, begs leave to report in
the form of the following resolution, which it recommends
for the adoption of the Board:Resolved, That in the case of assistants who desire
to absent themselves before the close of a semester
and who shall present to the Secretary of the University a statement in writing from the head of their
department certifying in effect that such assistants have
completed their required duties for such semester, and
have been excused from further attendance by said
head of the department, the Secretary shall be authorized to certify'such assistants to the pay roll the same
as if they had actually remained in residence and on
duty to the final close of such semester.
Resolved, further, That the Secretary shall be similarly authorized to certify to the pay roll in cases of
instructors and professors for whom or by whom there
is filed with the Secretary written authority from the
head of the department involved and from the Dean or
President for absence at the close of the semester in
question.
The resolution suggested with respect to the men involved in the Training Detachment work is as follows:WHEREAS, The duties of members of the Faculty
with no administrative responsibilities are ordinarily
comparatively light from June I5 to June 30, annually,
and,
WHERE:AS, Heavy administrative duties have been
laid upon Professors Higbie, Bailey, and Miggett, and
Mr. W. E. Lay, in connection with the Army Training
Detachment, even from an earlier date than June 15,
I918, therefore be it
Resolved, That the special salaries respectively voted to these members of the Faculty (See Regents Proceedings, page 244) shall date from June 15, Ii98, and
shall continue to the close of their duties with the
Training Detachment, or until October I, I918, whichever is earlier, or until further orders from the Board
of Regents.
Your committee would also recommend, in accordance
with a letter from Dean Cooley, hereto attached, that special compensation be paid to Secretary L. A. Hopkins, of
the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture, at the rate




308


JULY MEETING, 1918


of $200 per month, as recommended, from July I until the
close of his special duties with the Training Detachment,
or until October I, I9I8, whichever is earlier, or until other
orders from the Board. It should be understood that Professor Hopkins will perform the full duties specified in Dean
Cooley's letter.
Respectfully submitted,
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. BEAL
W. H. SAWYER
Executive Committee
SHIRLEY W. SMITH
Secretary
July 15, I918
On motion of Regent Gore, the following report of the
Executive Committee was approved and adopted (see page
298):To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEN:Your Executive Committee, to whom was referred, with
power, the request for the advancement of Dr. O. M. Cope
to an Acting Assistant Professorship of Physiology, after
conference were impressed with the necessity under the
circumstances of retaining Dr. Cope's services which could
only be done by the promotion in question. We accordingly appointed Dr. Cope as Acting Assistant Professor of
Physiology for the University year I918-I919 with compensation of $2,000 for the year, and we ask the approval of
the full Board for our action.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
H. B. HUTCHINS
JUNIUS E. B^AI,
W. H. SAWYER
July 19, I918
On motion of Regent Murfin, the following memorandum presented by the Secretary at the President's request,
was adopted by the Board as the President's report in the
matter of the informational lectures to be given by mem



JULY MEETING, 1918


309


bers of the Faculty to soldiers in the Training Detachment
(see page 300):PRESIDENT H. B. HUTCHINS,
University of Michigan.
MY DEAR PRESIDENT HUTCHINS:There are attached hereto papers and memoranda covering the arrangement between the University and the Committee on Education and Special Training for the giving.of special lectures on War Aims, by Messrs. Dow, Cross,
Boak, and Crane. Under this arrangement each instructor
is to instruct sections of not over fifty men at a minimum
compensation of $5.00 per hour, the lectures lasting in each
case one hour. The lecturers specified below were all ready
to give the lectures during the first week in July as was
required, but owing to interference by July 4, with furloughs, and owing to other causes over which the lecturers
themselves had no control, they actually did not begin until
the second week in July. As some of the lecturers, I am
informed, remained in Ann Arbor for this express purpose
and were ready to perform their contracts, presumably
payment should be made from the first week. Payments
would be as follows:Professor E. W. Dow,           3 sections, per week $15
Professor A. L. Cross,         3 sections, per week  15
Assistant Professor A. E. Boak,  5 sections, per week 25
Instructor V. W. Crane,.4 sections, per week 20
T otal...........................................  $75
Grand total for the six weeks from July I to August IO.$450
Receipts during this period under the Government's
payment of II2 cents per day per man, would be presumably
as follows:
732 men, 41 days at II2 cents per day............... $450.I8
thus almost exactly balancing receipts with expenses.
Yours respectfully,
SHIRLEY W. SMITH
Secretary
July I8, 1918
On motion of Regent Gore, the following report filed
by the Secretary was approved and adopted by the Board:



3IO


JULY MEETING, 1918


To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEN:At the request of the President I beg to report with
respect to authority given to the Military Committee, consisting of Regent Leland and Regent Murfin, and the President and Secretary, at the meeting of the Regents on June
25, to make necessary arrangements, within their discretion,
to take care of additional men whom the Government might
wish to send here in further training detachments (see page
30I), that Captain Buell of the Army came to. Ann Arbor
on July 13 and made an inspection of the work done here.
He stated that the Government was not yet able to make
final arrangements for adding to the number of men in
training, but that the Government desired to renew for a
period of eight weeks from August I5 the present contract
under which approximately seven hundred men are being
trained. After consulting with Regent Murfin, Regent
Beal, and Regent Sawyer (Regent Leland could not be
reached by telephone), the President and Secretary signed
a contract essentially the same as that under which the
present training detachment is being cared for, namely, for
approximately seven hundred men for eight weeks from
August I5 at $1.75 per day. This figure will, barring unforeseen contingencies, cover the cost involved to the
University.
Respectfully submitted for the Committee,
SHIRLEY W. SMITH
Secretary
Approved:
FRANK B. LELAND
J. 0. MURsIN
WALTER H. SAWYER
JUNIUS E. BEAL
July I9, I918
At this point the Board adjourned for lunch.




JULY MEETING, 1918


3IT


AFTERNOON SESSION
On reassembling there were present, the President, Regent Beal, Regent Leland, Regent Sawyer, Regent Hubbard,
Regent Gore, and Regent Murfin. Absent, Regent Clements, who later took his seat, Regent Hanchett, and Superintendent Keeler.
On motion- of Regent Murfin, the Finance Committee
was authorized to sell the so-called Brice Street houses in
Baltimore at the best price obtainable (see page 300o).
On motion of Regent Leland, the Secretary was authorized and directed to arrange for a central correspondence
room upon the Campus, with an operator and equipment of
dictaphone and typewriter. Not to exceed $500 was allowed
to cover the cost of the typewriter, if necessary to purchase
one, and the dictaphone equipment. The vote upon this
question. was as follows: Aye: Regent Leland, Regent
Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent Hubbard, and Regent Gore.
No: Regent Murfin.
Regent Clements took his seat.
The following report was read by Regent Leland, and
on motion, was received and placed on file:R. A. CAMPBELL, Treasurer,
University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
DEAR SIR:An audit of your accounts as Treasurer of the University of Michigan and the State Psychopathic Hospital was
made by representatives of the Auditor General's department on June I8 last. A copy of said audit is herewith
enclosed.
It takes up your accounts from May 31 to June 15, inclusive, I918.
You will notice by this statement there is $.oi excess
of cash on hand which is accounted for by the foot-note
on page I (Sheet A).
In view of the large volume of business transacted at
the University of Michigan you are to be congratulated




312


JULY MEETING, 1918


on the showing made and I believe the method in use and
the promptness with which your accounts are rendered to
this department are commendable.
Very respectfully,
ORAMEI, B. FULLER
Auditor General
By FIP;D Z. HAMILTON, General Accountant
Lansing, Mich., July 3,-I918
The Secretary presented a long report, largely in written form as prepared by Professor H. H. Higbie, Educational Director of the Training Detachment, upon the subject of increasing the number of men to be sent here by the
War Department for special instruction. The report indicated that under certain circumstances the University could
train a total of 2,840 such soldiers during the year to end
June 30, 19I9. After discussion, on motion of Regent Murfin, the Board adopted the following resolution:Resolved, That the Regents hereby approve in general
the proposal made by Professor H. H. Higbie to the War
Department for the training of enlisted men in the mechanic arts; the details of any proposed contract embodying such an arrangement in definite form are to be subject
to confirmation by the Regents at a special meeting to be
called by the President when the War Department shall have
signified definitely what arrangements it desires to make.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board approved the
request of Professor H. A. Gleason, as Director of the
Botanical Garden, for the carrying over into I918-19I9 of
the pay roll balance of $522.37 at the close of I917-I918.
The Board further allowed Professor Gleason, within his
discretion, to arrange for the necessary night work and
Sunday work at the Garden on the basis of overtime payment for hours in excess of fifty-four per week.
On motion of Regent Gore, leave of absence for not exceeding one calendar year was given to Miss E. B. Steere,
Assistant Law Librarian, in order to permit her to take
charge of an Army camp library. Authority was given to
Dean Bates, in conference with the President and the Law
School Committee of the Regents, to make suitable arrange



JULY MEETING, I9r8


313


ments for Miss Steere's work during her absence, at a compensation to the substitute not exceeding that appropriated
in the budget for Miss Steere.
The following communication was received from Dean
Bates of the Law School:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Some weeks ago I communicated to the President and
the Law School Committee of the Board of Regents the
facts relating to an opportunity offered us to buy valuable
books and a few engravings and other prints of English
and American judges and lawyers from a collection in the
possession of the Harvard Law School. The opportunity
is a rare one, the books being offered to us at far below
the market value as respects such of the books as are available at all from other sources  Many of these books, however, are absolutely unobtainable in any other way. The
total price of the collection of books and prints is between
$I,800 and $I,9oo. The books consist principally of rare
editions of the Year Books, which are sorely needed here,
English reports of cases which we need to fill gaps in our
series, and early American Statute law, also needed to fill
gaps. I have discussed the matter with the law committee
and the book lists have been carefully examined and approved by the library committee of the law faculty. As the
opportunity will be lost if it is not seized now, I earnestly
request that the Board authorize the Law School Committee
and the dean to make the purchase upon some scheme of
deferred payments, the details of which I am working out
now and desire to present in person at the next meeting of
the Board.
Respectfully submitted,
HENRY M. BATIES
July II, I9T8
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board set aside the required sum, presumably $1,877.96, for the purchase of this
collection of books.  It was understood, however, that not
more than $i,ooo should be paid upon the account until
further funds should be available. This provision for deferred payment would, it was understood, be agreeable to
the authorities of Harvard University.




3I4


JULY MEETING, 1918


On motion of Regent Gore, a sum not in excess of $I50
was set aside to provide additional toilet facilities in the
Law   Building.  The work is to be done by the Buildings
and Grounds Department in consultation with the Dean of
the Law School.
Regent Leland presented the following report, which
was discussed at length by the members of the Board and
also by Professor Henry C. Adams and Professor W. D.
Henderson who appeared before the Board:To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of
Michigan:At a meeting called by the committee of the Regents of
the University of Michigan and attended by representatives
of the Board of Commerce, Employers' Association, the
Community Union, Superintendent of Schools, Director of
the Bureau of Governmental Research and members of the
Civilian Relief Committee of the American Red Cross, the
undersigned were requested to formulate propositions for
the consideration of the Regents of the University of Michigan with reference to the extension of University service
in the City of Detroit, and the committee hereby submits
the following:
I. The service of the University of Michigan should be
given in the City of Detroit along three lines. Cultural
service in academic subjects similar to those heretofore
given should be continued. In addition, courses in industrial
management, business administration, and allied subjects
for the service of industry should be instituted. And finally, courses for employees of the municipality of Detroit
and the various social service agencies should be furnished.
2. The City of Detroit is prepared to furnish the buildings and equipment necessary for the conduct of these
courses, and in-addition offers large resources for sociological and industrial investigations, and the City of Detroit
is prepared to employ research experts to co-operate with
the University authorities in making such material available,
not only for Detroit but all University students.
3. It is understood that the standard of University
credit shall be maintained in such courses at the same level
as in the classes conducted in Ann Arbor.
4. While it may be possible to conduct these courses
on a fee basis as at present, it is the earnest desire of




JULY MEETINVGG,      1918


315


many citizens of Detroit that the instruction be furnished at
the expense of the City of Detroit and without charge to
the students attending the classes. It is understood in connection with the proposed plan of throwing open these
courses to all who may apply and who show fitness to pursue such courses, that the City of Detroit will meet all expenses relating thereto, providing the necessary appropriation can be made in accordance with the accounting system
of the City of Detroit.
5. If the foregoing plans are approved it is suggested
that the President be empowered to act with the necessary
agencies in the City of Detroit in instituting such courses
for the coming year.
FRED M. BUTZEL
HENRY G. STEVE NS
DAVID MACKENZIE
HENRY C. ADAMS
W. D. HENDERSON
July I8, I9I8
Regent Leland offered the following resolution:Resolved, That the report submitted with reference to
University Extension work in Detroit be approved and
adopted, with the understanding that the courses shall be
established upon the fee basis, and that no course shall
be established for which the University does not have available a man or men competent to take charge of the same.
Regent Leland's motion was seconded by Regent Hubbard. The vote upon this resolution was as follows: Aye:
Regent Leland,, Regent Sawyer, and Regent Hubbard. No:
Regent Beal, Regent Clements, Regent Gore; and Regent
Murfin. The resolution was declared lost.
Regent Murfin was excused.
Professor Henderson withdrew.
Professor Adams presented certain matters in connection with the personnel of the Department of Economics.
On motion of Regent Gore, Herbert N. Schmitt was appointed Instructor in Economics to take care of the work
in cost accounting and institution accounting, for the year
I9I8-I919, with salary of $I,500.




316


JULY MEETING, 1918


On motion of Regent Gore, authority was given to the
Executive Committee to adjust the situation created by
necessity of finding a successor for Professor Dowrie, resigned, along the lines of a proposal tentatively made by
Professor Adams.
Professor Adams withdrew.
Dr. C. G. Parnall, Medical Superintendent of the University Hospital, appeared and discussed with the Board
the necessity for additional space for administrative work
at the University Hospital. On motion of Regent Sawyer,
this question was referred to' the Buildings and Grounds
Committee, with instructions to construct the required quarters within an expected cost of $6,600.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Dr. Lucy M. Elliott was
appointed Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology for I918 -I9Q1, vice Harold Henderson, resigned, with salary of
$T,200.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Dr. Howard H. Cummings was appointed Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, at the salary of $I,ooo, for the year I918-I9I9.
On motion of Regent Leland, in accordance with a report submitted by the President and Secretary, the title of
H. L. Sensemann was fixed as "Director of the Alumni
Catalogue Office," in so far as Mr. Sensemann's duties relate to this work. Mr. Sensemann's salary for these duties
was fixed at $600 per year, to date from July I, I918. The
salary of Miss Hazel Wilson, Addressograph Operator and
Assistant in the Alumni Catalogue Office, was increased
from $40 to $50 per month, to date from July I, I918.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, leave of absence without salary for the University year I918-19I9 was granted
to Associate Professor H. B. Merrick, and Assistant Professors C. O. Carey and Hugh Brodie, of the Department
of Surveying, to-enable them to accept positions upon the
engineering staff surveying the north end of the Grand
Canal in China. It was understood in granting these leaves
that extensions might be applied for if foiund necessary.
Dean Cooley filed with the Board a communication giving information relative to the development of work in
Aeronautical Engineering.




JULY MEETING, 1918


3t7


On motion of Regent Hulbbard, the Board laid upon the
table a request from the Committee on National Service of
the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture for an allowance of $5oo to provide for the preparation and publication
of a list of graduates and former students of the Colleges
of Engineering and Architecture under twenty-nine years
of age, such list having been requested by the Chief of Engineering of the War Department.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Edmund Wild and Albert F. Hurlburt were promoted to Assistant Professorships of Modern Languages in the Colleges of Engineering
and Architecture. These two appointments are for the University year I918-I919, with salary of $1,700 in each case.
On motion of Regent 'Sawyer, the Board approved and
confirmed the following appointments made by the Secre —
tary and accepted for record the other changes reported.
The appointments are, except where otherwise stated, for
the remainder of the year I917-I918.
Charles T. Van Dusen, Student Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, from May 27, 19I8, with salary at the
rate of $200 per year.
Clarence F. Kessler, Student Assistant in Mechanical
Engineering, from May 27, 1918, with salary at the rate of
$200 per year.
Grace Powers, Custodian of the Zoological Laboratory,
vice Mrs. Dorothy B. Hanchett, resigned, from June I, I9g8,
with salary at the rate of $700 per year, twelve months'
basis.
H. H. Thrall, Instructor in second Auto Mechanics
Training Detachment work, from June I5, g918 to the end
of the second Training Detachment period, with salary at
the rate of $I60 per month.
C. W. Good, Instructor in second Auto Mechanics
Training Detachment work, from June 15, g918 to the end
of the second Training Detachment period, with salary at
the rate of $130 per month.
P. W. Steelsmith, Instructor in second Auto Mechanics
Training Detachment work, from June 15, 1918 to the end
of the second Training Detachment period, with salary at
the rate of $120 per month.




318


JULY MEETING, 1918


A. L. Clark, Instructor in Second Auto Mechanics
Training Detachment work, from June 15, 1918 to the end
of the second Training Detachment period, with salary at
the rate of $I20 per month.
Andrew Althouse, Instructor in second Auto Mechanics Training Detachment work, from June I5, I918 to the
end of the second Training Detachment period, with salary
at the rate of $I20 per month.'
j. T. Webb, Instructor in second Auto Mechanics
training Detachment work, from June 13, 1918 to the end
of the second Training Detachment period, with salary at
the rate of $175 per month.
M. N. Prange, Instructor in second Auto Mechanics
Training Detachment work, from June 13, 1918 to the end
of the second Training Detachment period, with salary at
the rate of $175 per month.
Herbert L. Gillespie, Instructor in second Auto Mechanics Training Detachment work, from June 8, I918 to
the end of the second Training Detachment period, with
salary at the rate of $I70 per month.
Ralph W. Dosey, Instructor in second Auto Mechanics
Training Detachment work, from June 13, I918 to the end
of the second Training Detachment period, with salary at
the rate of $IIo per month.
James E. Hale, Instructor in second Auto Mechanics
Training Detachment work, from June 13, I918 to the end
of the second Training Detachment period, with salary at
the rate of $Ioo per month.
C. B. Kent, Instructor in second Auto Mechanics Training Detachment work, from June 13, I918 to the end of the
second Training Detachment period, with salary at the rate
of $I75 per month.
Ray Langworthy, Instructor in second Auto Mechanics
Training Detachment work, from June 13, 1918 to the end
of the second Training Detachment period, with salary at
the' rate of $130 per month.
Dewey H. Parker, Instructor in second Auto Mechanics
Training Detachment work, from June 13, I918 to the end
of the second Training Detachment period, with salary at
the rate of $150 per month.
Albert M. Graves, Instructor in second Auto Mechanics
Training Detachment work, from June 13, I918 to the end
of the second Training Detachment period, with salary at
the rate of $130 per month.




JULY MEETING, I918


319


Louis 'S. Kemp, Instructor in second Auto Mechanics
'Training Detachment work, from June 13, I918 to the end
of the second Training Detachment period, with salary at
the rate of $125 per month.
Lawrence Sayner, Superintendent of Engineering Shops
in connection with the second Auto Mechanics Training
Detachment work, from June 17, 1918 to the end of the
second Training Detachment period, with salary at the rate
of $150 per month.
Orlando L. Gooden, Instructor in second Auto Mechanics Training Detachment. work, from June 17, 1918 to the
end of the second Training Detachment period, with.salary
at the rate of $175 per month.
H. E. Gladhill, Assistant in General and Physical Chemistry, for additional work during the last 3I2 weeks of
second semester left by Welsey Minnis, resigned, an addition of $25 to regular salary.
L. R. Wagener, Pharmacist in the University Health
Service, vice W. J. Bonisteel, resigned, from June 8 to June
30, I918, with salary at the rate of $550 per year, twelvemonths' basis.
Donald D. Carpenter, Laboratory Helper in Electrical
Laboratory, from May 23, 1918, with salary at the rate of
$650 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Oliver Riggle. Assistant in Laboratory of Clinical Pathology, Homceopathic Medical School, vice J. D. Coons, resigned, from June I, 1918, with salary at the rate of $200
per year twelve-months' basis.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board referred to the
Regents' Committee on the Alumni Memorial Hall a commtnication from   the Faculty of the College of Pharmacy
suggesting that the oil portrait of the late Dean Julius 0.
Schlotterbeck, presented to the College of Pharmacy by the
alumni, should be hung in the Alumni Memorial Hall.
The following communication was received from       Dean
Cooley, and on motion of Regent Hubbard, it received the
approval of the Board:At the January meeting of the Regents (p. 136) schedules for three proposed war courses in Naval Training were
submitted, subject to approval by the Navy Department.
Pending such approval no action was taken. Later these




320


JULY MEETING, 1918


courses having been approved by the Navy Department and
it being desired to begin the work with the opening of the
second semester, they were approved by the Executive
Committee and so reported to the Regents (p. 2II).
The Secretary of the Navy has recently ruled that universities can establish so-called naval units, that is naval
training courses intended for students already enlisted in
the Naval Reserves, such students being allowed to return
to the university to complete their studies and graduate.
These naval training courses, for which university credit
will be given, may be taken together with regular university
work and will aim to prepare men to secure by examination
an ensign's commission in the Naval Reserves.
The instruction in Naval Training which will accompany the regular university studies will comprise the three
courses running through the college year, which the Regents approved at their April meeting. These three courses
prepare students for (a) line duties only, (b) engineering
duties only, (c) aeronautic duties only,
In order that there may be no question as to the scope
of the intended work and its authorization by the Regents
it is requested that the plan as outlined above be approved.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board laid upon the
table a proposal to refrain from turning back the hands of
the University clock one hour on the last Sunday in October.
On motion of Regent Gore, and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the Law School, degrees
were conferred as follows:BACHELOR OF LAWS
Herbert Watson Clark, A.B. I905, A.M. 90o6, as of the Class
of I908.
Lady Willie Forbus, B.S., University of Mississippi, I915.
On motion of Regent Beal, and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate
School, appointments to Fellowships were made as follows:-Harold Robert Snow to the Michigan Pulp and Paper Manufacturers' Fellowship, for the year 1918-19i9,
with stipend of $500; Elmer Hauser Wirth, B.S. (Phar.!
to the Stearns Fellowship in Pharmaceutical Chemistry, for
the year 19I8-I919, with stipend of $500.




JULY MEETING, 1918


32I


The Board noted for record Dean Lloyd's statement that
Bertha A. Van Tuyl, holder of the State College Fellowship for Albion College, had resigned the same (see page
255).
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Grace Quick was appointed Acting Demonstrator in Anaesthesia, to date from June
I, 1918, with salary of $750 per year, on the twelve-months'
basis. This appointment is necessitated by the absence of
Laura M. Davis in War service (see page 223). It was the
understanding of the Regents in making this appointment
that no addition to the budget of the Department of Materia Medica and Therapeutics, in which the appointment
lies, would be necessitated thereby.
On motion of Regent Beal, Calvin O. Davis was promoted to a Professorship of Education, beginning with the
University year I918-I919, with salary of $2,700 per year.
The position of Vice-Chairman of the Appointment Committee, which Professor Davis has held, was abolished.
On motion of Regent Beal, and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Dean of the Summer Session, the
following appointments to and changes in the teaching staff
of the Summer Session of I918 were made. All of these
were understood to be within the budget as already adopted.
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Latin                                Hrs.   Salary
Assistant 0. F. Butler................  32  $Ioo.oo
(Additional)
Semitics
Professor L. Waterman............. I6  I25.00
(Additional)
Romance Languages
Instructor M. Pargment............. 96  300.00
Instructor E. L. Hackes.............  96  300.00
(The appointment of Instructor E. E. Rovillain to be cancelled).
English
Instructor R. W. Cowden........... 32  Ioo.oo
(The appointment of Instructor W. O. Raymond to be cancelled).




322                JULY MEETING, I918
Rhetoric                                  Hrs.     Salary
Assistant M. F. Stowe...............           50.00
Oratory
Assistant G. A. Andrews.............           50.00
Fine Arts
Assistant Professor F. Kimball....... 64      266.67
Assistant Ella Hoghton.............           50.00
(The appointment of Professor H. R. Cross to be cancelled).
History
Assistant 0. W. Stephenson..........          00.00
Political Econonmy
Instructor R. H. Holmes............. 32       I00.00
Assistant M. Cooley..............              50.00oo
M1atlhematics
Instructor R. B. Robbins............. 64     200.00
(The appointment of Instructor H. C. Carver to be cancelled).
Astronomy
Instructor W. C. Rufus.............. 32        00oo.00
Assistant J. A. Aldrich...............        50.00
(The appointment of Associate Professor R. H. Curtiss
to be cancelled).
Physics
Instructor G. A. Lindsay............. 64     200.00
(Additional)
Instructor S. E. Field.................  64  200.00
Assistant J. Armstrong...............        100.00
(The appointments of Instructors W. W. Sleator and C.
V. Kent to be cancelled).
Chemistry
Instructor R. K. McAlpine........... 96      300.00
Assistant W. E. Cake................          I00.00
(Additional)
Assistant C. L. Watkin...............          40.00
Assistant E. O. Scott................          40.00
(The appointment of Assistant Professor HI   H. Willard
to be cancelled).
3/ ineralogy
Professor E. H. Kraus.............. 32       250.00
(Additional)




JULY MEETING, 1918


323


Geology                                     Hrs.    Salary
Assistant F. W. Frostic..............           50.00
Botany
Instructor R. C. Friesner............. 96      300.00
Assistant L. Cannon................             75.00
Assistant M. L. Steere..............            60.oo
(The appointment of Instructor W. W. Tupper to be cancelled).
Physical Training
Assistant K. Kilpatrick...............           50.00
COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
Drawing
Professor H. J. Goulding.............           500.00
Assistant Professor F. R. Finch......           100.00
(Additional)
Assistant F. R. Kepler...............           00.00
(The appointment of W. L. Bennett to be cancelled).
Surveying
Assistant B. G. Buell..............           I50.00
Chemical Engineering
Assistant Professor J. S. Laird....... 96       400.00
Assistant Professor J. C. Brier....... 96       400.00
Assistant T. C. Simpson.............. Without salary
Assistant H. R. Snow................ Without salary
(The appointments of Professor W. 1?. Wood and Instructor C. F. Smart to be cancelled).
MEDICAL SCHOOL
Anatomy
Assistant H. B. Barker..............           $00.00
Assistant I. Watanabe...............            00.00
Bacteriology
Instructor J. T. Connell.............          225.00
Assistant J. S. Chambers.............          I0.00
(The appointment of Instructor R. L. Novy to be cancelled).
Physiology
Assistant H. J. O'Brien..............           50.00
* Includes Elementary Drafting and Tracing for Women.




324                JULY MEETING, 1918
Pharmacology                               Hrs.    Salary
Professor C. W. Green..............           375.00
(The appointment of Assistant Professor W. Hale to be
cancelled).
Medicine
Instructor M. Marshall...............         225.00
COLLEGIE o  PHARMACY
Professor J. H. Kraemer.............          200.00
Professor A. F. Schlichting..........         300.00
Instructor C. C. Glover..............         200.00
BIOLOGICAL STATION
Assistant Professor P. Welch............           200.00
(Additional)
Mrs. D. H. Simons, Dean of Women..... Without salary
(The appointments of Assistant M. Ellis and Mrs. M. D.
Ellis to be cancelled).
LIBRARY METHODS
Instructor E. Betz......................           7500oo
EMBALMING AND SANITARY SCIENCE
Professor R. C. McCotter...............           150.00
Assistant D. C. Carpenter.................         20.00
(The appointments of Instructor L. A. Hoag and R. H.
Brier to be cancelled).
MILITARY COURSES
Professor C. P. Wagner.................           100.00
Assistant Professor H. A. Kenyon........            7500oo
GENERAL EXPENSE
Lecture Attendant C. C. Glover..........           40.00
Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD H. KRAUS
Dean of the Summer Session




JULY MEETING, 1918


325


On motion of Regent Sawyer, the title of Robert G.
Greve was changed from Superintendent of the University
Hospital to Steward of the University Hospital, and his
salary was fixed at $2,300 per year, to date from  July I,
I918.
Further, on motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board referred to the Finance Committee, with power, the question
of bond or bonds to be furnished by the officers and employees of the University Hospital.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board granted leave
of absence to F. L. D. Goodrich, Reference Librarian, for
nine months, beginning October I, I918, in order to enable
him to resume his work in an Army camp library. Librarian
Bishop was empowered to make arrangements for a substitute during the period of Mr. Goodrich's absence, without
increasing the amount appropriated in the,ibrarv budget
for this work.
Regent Clements was excused.
The following communication was received:To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of
Michigan,,.
HONORED SIRS:I have been instructed by the Ministerial Association,
composed of the ministers of the Federated Churches of
this city, to request the grant of privilege to hold Sunday
evening religious services on the Campus, using the band
stand as a platform, each service to be non-sectarian in
character and presenting no demands for tribute or testimony, and planned by the minister whose church is responsible for the meeting, in conjunction with the Secretary of
the military Y. M. C. A. The latter has been interviewed
and is in hearty sympathy with this movement.
These union services of the churches continue to the
middle of September. It is our wish that we may have such
meetings on the Campus until the end of the season.
Very respectfully yours,
LLOYD C. DOUGAS
Ann Arbor, Mich., July 16, I918
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board granted the
request of the Ministerial Association, in accordance with
its terms.




326


JULY MEETING, 1918


The Secretary filed a communication from the owner of
property at 1233 Washtenaw Avenue, offering to sell such
property to the University. No action was taken.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Regent Gore was appointed to sign the University vouchers for the months of
August, September, and October.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following committee
was appointed to have general charge of the Alumni Memorial Hall:-Regent Gore, Judge C. B. Grant, Professor
H. R. Cross.
On motion of Regent Beal, Frank L. Hager was appointed Instructor in Romance Languages for the University year I918-I919, with salary of $I,Ioo, and Peter Cabral,
Jr., was appointed Instructor in Romance Languages, for
the same period, with salary of $i,ooo.
The President stated that former Regent Levi L. Barbour had tendered to the University, gratis, space for offices
of administration in University Extension courses in Detroit; should such space be required. On motion of Regent
Leland, the Board expressed its thanks to Mr. Barbour for
this tender.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board authorized the
expenditure of not to exceed $250 for the purchase of maps
necessary for illustrating the lectures upon the causes of
the War before the members of the Training Detachment.
(See pages 308-309).
The following letter was presented by the President and,
on motion of Regent Sawyer, was referred to the iBuildings
and Grounds Committee, with power to act:DR. HARRY B. HUTCHINS,
University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
MY DIAR DR. HUTCHINS:The Building Committee of the Michigan Union, as a
precaution against possible oversight, have suggested that I
call your attention to the fact that the use of the Union
Building after (say) October Io, for war service, is absolutely dependent upon heating service from the University
plant, in accordance with the understanding from the begin



JULY MEETING, 1918


327


iling, the furnishing of which service depends on the construction of a tunnel, etc.
The lighting service, also covered by the same understanding, will be required from the very beginning of the
war service, perhaps as' early as August 15, but I suppose
that such service can temporarily be given from the University plant without the tunnel.
Very respectfully,
HOMER L. HEATH
Secretary
Ann Arbor, Mich., July I7, 1918
The President presented a letter addressed to himself
by the Financial Secretary of the Michigan Union stating
that the Building Committee of the Union proposed to place
contracts immediately for refrigeration, for service elevators
and dumb waiters, for temporary and permanent floors, for
window screens, and for temporary carpenter work in order to have the building ready for the service of the expected Training Detachment. On motion of Regent Leland,
the Board expressed its opinion that there could be no objection to the making of such contracts, providing the Building Committee of the Union had the required funds.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board referred to the
Executive Committee, with power, the request of the Department of Dermatology and Syphilology for an additional
interne.
On motion of Regent Beal, and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Department of Political Science and
of Dean Effinger, the following actions were taken: The
title of the "Bureau of Reference and Research in Government" was changed to "Bureau of Government." Associate
Professor R. T. Crane was appointed Director of the Bureau of Government, without salary.
On motion of Regent Beal, and in accordance with the
request of Professor H. M. Randall, the leaves of absence
granted to Dr. Charles F. Meyer (see page 779, May I9I7),
and Winthrop R. Wright (see page 27), and Assistant Professor David 'L. Webster (see page I ) were extended for
the year I918-I9I9.  Leave of absence, without salary,
was granted to Herbert Bell, Instructor in Physics, in or



328


JULY MEETING, 1918


der that he might continue to completion his work for a
Doctor's degree at the University of Chicago. Leave of
absence, without salary, for the year I918-I919, was voted
to Assistant Professor William W. Sleator, to enable him
to take up War research work in the laboratory of the Eastman Kodak Company. W. N. St. Peter was appointed Instructor in Physics, for the year I918-I919, as substitute for
Professor Sleator, with salary of $I,500.
A communication from Professor Emil Lorch with regard to the giving of certain additional courses in the Department of Architecture in view of the possible discontinuance of the Detroit School of Design, was referred to the
Executive Committee, with power..
A communication from    Professor Lorch reportiig the
offer by the Detroit Museum of Art as a gift or as an indefinite loan, of a number of casts of classical sculpture,
with the understanding that the University would pay the
cost of packing and shipping, and that these pieces would
presumably be placed in the Alumni Memorial Hall, was referred, on motion of Regent Leland, to the Regents' Committee on the Alumni Memorial Hall.
The following communication was received from Professor A. A. Stanley:MY DEAR PRESIDENT HUTCHINS:I take pleasure in notifying you that- since the last meeting of the Regents the collection has been enriched by a
signal-whistle donated by Professor J. R. Effinger, and a
representative of one of the oldest forms of Chinese string
instruments-the K'in. The latter is enclosed in a beautiful
case of bluish green satin embroidered with Chinese characters in black. It is impossible to place an absolute money
value on these instruments, but from the point of view of
the collection they are invaluable. The second instrument
was donated by Mr. Marvin A. Ives of this city.
Hoping that in the near future I may send you information of the same nature, I remain,
Very respectfully,
A. A. STANLEY
July I9,. I918




JULY MEETING, I918                 329
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board expressed its
thanks to Professor Effinger and Mr. Marvin A. Ives for
their donations.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote except
where otherwise expressly stated.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board adjourned,
to meet at the call of the President.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH, Secretary.




APPENDIX
BUDGET OF I918-I919
As APPROVED JUNE 14, 1918
(Page 245)
Following there are presented (I) the estimated current income
of the University for the year I918-I919; (II) the annual budget and
other appropriations (exclusive of special legislative appropriations
and of gifts) in detail for Departments and sub-departments, together with a summary, and (III) a statement of new appointments
and of reappointments and changes in titles and salaries made in
the Budget.
(I) INCOME
The estimated income for I918-I919 based on previous experience, is as follows:Tuition and other College and School Fees............$ 334,485.00
Laboratory and other Department Fees................    39,852.7I
Diploma  Fees.......................................   10,7I0.90
Deposits for Theses, Keys, etc..........................    34.00
State Mill Tax for Current Expenses.................  945,000.00
(Amount of I919 tax available for fiscal year
I918-I919)
Special Legislative
Homceopathic School....$6,ooo  Appropriations omitted
Summer Hospitals.....$3,000   in tabulation of both..
income and budget
Interest on Endowment Fund........................$     38,433.44
SALES AND SERVICES
University Hospital....................$327o000.00
Homceopathic Hospital.................  81,618.73
Dental Operating Room................ I5,718.2I
Roentgenology.........................  I,942.25
Pasteur Institute.......................  1,465.00
Miscellaneous..........................  5,000.00   442,744.I9
Rents,-Houses, Lands and Rooms............2........      2,277.30
Interest  on  Bank  Deposits............................  3,112.77
Non-Student Fees and Deposits......................        95.oo
Total Receipts....................................$1,816,745.31




332                JULY MEETING, 1918
General Funds in hands of University Treasurer, June
30, 1918 (Less Psychopathic Building Fund Overdraft,  $9,464.63).................................  I64,700.88
Total Estimated Income, including balance at beginning
of year I98-99...........................$,98,446.I9




(II) ANNUAL DEPARTMENTAL BUDGET FOR I9I8-I9I9
I. ADMINISTRATION AND GENERAI,
Executive Offices
Salaries      Current
No. Persons   and Wages      Expense      Equipment        Total
Administration, Salaries and Wages................. 22         $40,100.00..................      $40,100.00
Administration, Contingent...................................       13,500.00.........      I3,500.00
Administration, Postage..........................              3,000.00.........       3,000.00
Regents' Traveling Expenses.................................    2,000.00.........      2,000.00
Attorneys' Retainer Fee......................................       500.00........         500.00
Total for Executive Offices................... 22         $40,100.00    $19,000.00.........    $59,100.00




Other General Offices


No. Persons
Dean  of  W omen...................................  2
Custodian Memorial Building.......................    I
Auditor Student Organizations and Catalog Editor...    I
Student  Council...................................
Chairman Committee on Student Affairs.............. 
Stage Director, S. C. A. Hall..
Appointment  Committee............................  3
High School Inspection.............................. 2
Chairman Board in Control of Athletics..............   I
University Health Service..........................   9
University Health Service, Hospital Fund...........
Chairman Foreign Students Advisors Committee..... 
Total for Other General Offices.................. *I8
* Net, less duplicates.


Salaries
and Wages
$ 3,350.00
900.00
750.00
200.00
2, i80.00
3,200.00
200.00
I3,620.00.........
200.00
$24,600.00


Current
Expense
340.00
150.00
300.00.
300.00
300.00
1,450.00
I,8Io.oo
6,000.00
$IO,350.oo


Equipment      Total..................................


$ 3,350.oo
1,240.00
750.00
150.00
200.00
300.00
2,480.00
4,650.00
200.00
15,530.00
6,ooo.oo
200.00


$  I00.00    $35,050.00




General Accounts
Salaries        Current
No. Persons    and Wages        Expense        Equipment         Total
Commencement Expenses....................................                            $ 2,100.00.........       $ 2,I00.00
Diplomas................................                                   2,900.00.......2,900.00
Phone Rental.............................................4,00.00.........        '4,0000oo
Schoolmasters' Club Reports.......................00                                                70.00     '
Alumni Association........................................           600.00.   C
Y. M. C. A...................................................500.00......          500.00 
Non-Resident Lecture Fund.............................0.....       I,00.........,000.00
Publicity and Organization Among Alumni.....................          7,000.00.........         7,00.00      t
Photographs of Buildings and University Life.........          I00.00.........          Io00.00 
Miscellaneous Printing........................................        4,500.00.........         4,500.00 5
Fire Insurance.........,..............................,                              I,000.00
Elevator Insurance........................................25.00.........           250.00
Workmen's Compensation Insurance.........................         2,750.00.....             2,750.00 '
Regents' Reception.........................................            200.00.........           200.00
University Band....................................           I           500000.00      7.........,250.00
Cap and Gown Contract.....................................           225.00.........          225.00
Taxes on California Lands...................................             40.00.........          I40.00
Traveling Expense Fund for Meetings of Associations.........         I,500.00.........         1,500.00
American Students' Union..................................500.00.........           500.00
Total for General Accounts.....................           I      $   500.00      $30,085.00                     $30,585.00 
Cn




2. DEPARTMENTS OF INSTRUCTION AND RESEARCH


A. SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts


Salaries
DEPARTMENTS                                   No. Persons   and Wages
Administration, College of L., S. and A..............     7     $  8,800.00
A stronom y.........................................    6       I,850.00
Botany..........................................    I7       16,200.00
Botanical Gardens..................................      4        4,635.00
Chemistry..........................................   60       46,915.00
Economics.........................................   22       34,600.00
Education......................................    6        3,75Q.00
E nglish............................................    7       17,000.00
Fine   A rts..........................................  2        3,250.00
Forestry...........................................    6        9,520.00
Geology...........................................    13       15,650.00
Geology, Geological Museum.........................
German............................................    5        0,683.00
Greek..............................................    3        6,ooo.oo
History.............................................  13       22,683.00
Landscape Design.......................................3       5,660.00
Latin..............................................     7       13,900.00


Current
Expense
$ 2,000.00
1,290.00
1,000.00
6oo.oo
23,350.00
770.00
200.00
25.00
25.00
875.00
250.00
50.00
15.00
6o.oo
60.00
495.00
50.00


Equipment
$   I00.00
300.00
3,200.00
200.00
400.00
150.00.........
200.00
40.00
30.00
175.00


Total
$ 10,900.00
12,440.00
17,200.00
5,235.00
73,465.00
35,570.00
I4,350.oo
I7,175-00
3,275.00
I0,395.00
15,900.00
200.00
10,783.00
6,055.00
22,743.00
6,I85.oo
14,125.00




Mathematics.......................................    IO       23,300.00        I85.00
Mineralogy.........................................    5        7,200.00        450.00
Music.............................................       2        4,600.00         I0.00
Music, Care of Organ................................                 200.00
Oratory............................................    4        8,400.00        5I5.oo
Philosophy.........................................   II       22,500.00        350.00
Physics............................................    I6       23,4000.0        90.goo
Political Science....................................    6        9,oo.oo        I175.00
Rhetoric..........................................   I4       21,450.00         50.00
Romance Languages................................ I7             30,300.00         25.00
Semitics...........................................     I        3,200.00         I0.00
Zoology..........................                     6       16,250.00       1,450.00
Science   Building...................................                  75.00


I00.00
350.00
I00.00
2,230.00
50.00
I00.00


23,585.00
8,000.00
4,61o.oo
200.00
8,915.o0
22,950.00
26,530.00
9,225.00
21,500.00
30,325.00
3,310.oo
I7,700.00
75.0o


Total for College of Literature, Science,
and  the   Arts..................................*280  $409,696.00
* Net, less duplicates.


$35,450.00


$ 7,775.00  $452,921.00




Colleges of Engineering and Architecture


co
O0


DEPARTMENTS                                  No. Persons
Administration, Colleges of E. and A................. 
Engineering Apparatus and Furnishings............
Architecture...................................   9
Chemical Engineering.............................. 
Civil Engineering.................................  21
Civil Engineering, Highway Short Course...........
D raw ing............................................  14
Electrical Engineering.............................. 20
Engineering English................................   8
Engineering Mathematics...........................    I1
Engineering Mechanics............................. 
Engineering Shops.................................. 30
Marine Engineering................................     6
Mechanical Engineering............................    28
Modern Languages..................................     7
Surveying..........................................  13
Surveying, Summer Camp.......................... Io
Surveying, Summer Camp Fee Fund, Est. Proceeds...
Total for Colleges of Engineering and
Architecture.............................. 206
*Net, less duplicates,


Salaries
s and Wages
<  7 A e   rr


Current
Expense
<t  -Q  -> r,


Equipment      Total




P   /,'.u'-u      P  ),/Du'-'.-...........................      $  6,0oo.oo
13,90.00           490.00.........
14,900.00         I,650.oo.........
24,290.00         1,900.00..................          1,175.00........
10,500.00          200.00....
21,950.00         1,200.00.......
10,700.00            75.00.........
21,600.00            30.00.........
I I,000.00          525.00.......
28,650.00         2,965.00.........
7,800.00          545.00.........
32,500.00         3,660.00.........
13,100.00            30.00......
13,400.00           375.00....
3,I50.oo         I,065.00          280.00.........450.oo.........
$235,090.00       $20,085.00       $ 6,280.00


$ I,400.00
6,ooo.oo
14,390.00
16,550.00
26,190.00
1,175.00
10,700.00
23,150.00,775.00oo
21,630.00
11,525.00
31,65.00oo
8,345.00
36, 60.oo
13,130.00
13,775.00
4,495.00
450.0o
$26I,455.oo


t1 —i
6 —




.Medical School
Salaries      Current


DEPARTMENTS


No. Perso


Administration, Medical School.....................   4
Anatomy...........................................  13
Anatomy, Anatomical Material.......................
Dermatology.......................................  4
Hygiene and Bacteriology...........................  13
Internal Medicine...................................  3
Materia Medica....................................  7
Neurology.........................................  4
Obstetrics and Gynecology..........................  4
Ophthalmology.....................................  4
Otolaryngology......................................  4
Pathology..........................................  7
Physiology.........................................  6
Roentgenology......................................   4
Serology...........................................  4
Surgery............................................  o1
Clinical  Transactions...............................
Total for Medical School....................... *99
* Net, less duplicates.


uns and Wages
$ 2,900.00
I6,550.00
5,320.00
I3,5500oo
I4,860.oo
7,900.00
4,270.00
Provided
5,320.00
4,320.00
8,020.00
5,800.0o
6,140.00
2,380.00
10,840.00


Expense
$ 1,200.00
1,575.00
5,000.00
700.00
9,470.0o
I,8oo.oo
500.00
200.00
for in Bates
500.00
400.00
2,000.00
550.00
6,540.00
140.00
2,409.75
500.00


Equipment        Total......... $  4,I00.o 0.........      1.. I8,I25.00........   5,000.00
$   240.00       6,260.00
250.00.23,270.co
485.00      I7, 45.00
IO0.00       8;500.00
I50.00       4,620.00
Professorship Fund
200.00       6,020.00
500.00       5,220.00
375.00      10,395.00
250.00       6,6oo00.00
450.00      I3,130.00.........   2,520.00
2,I45.00      15,394-75.........500.00


$1I8,70.00oo    $33,484.75      $ 5,145.00    $I46,799-75


Gw
0w
'IO




0
0
cS


Schools and Colleges Not Subdivided Into Departments


Salaries      Current
DEPARTMENTS                                  No. Persons   and Wages      Expense
Law  School........................................ 21       $ 54,949.00    $ 2,300.00
College of Pharmacy................................    8        8,595.00        325.00
Homceopathic Medical School.......................    15       I8,IOO.OO      I,000.00
Homceopathic Medical School, Fee Fund........................         IO. 0
College of Dental Surgery............................ 31      4I,20.00        2,950.00
College of Dental Surgery, Clinic...............................          5,000.00
Graduate School Administration (Inc. 19 Fellows)... 21           8,500.00      2,200.00
Graduate School, Graduate Publications Expenses...............                   175.00


Equipment
$  350.00.........
1,000.00
I,500.00


Total
$ 57,599.oo
8,920.00
20, I 00.00
I00.00
45,470.00
15,000.00
I0,700.00
175.00


Total for Schools and Colleges not
Subdivided into Departments................. *95     $131,164.00
* Net, less duplicates.


$24,050.00     $ 2,850.00    $I58,064.00




B. INDEPEINDINT DEPARTMENTS OR DIVISIONS
Salaries       Current
No. Persons   and Wages       Expense       Equipment        Total
General Library (excluding salaries Law Library)
(Number of Student Assistants Estimated)......       66     $ 44,900.00     $ 2,677.00     $   867.00    $ 48,444.00
General Library, Editor and Curator Rare Books......       I          500.00..................           500.00
General  Library,  Books.......................................                          18,500.00 8,50.0 
Dental Library, Fee Fund...............................................             oo  800.00 
Engineering Library, Books.....................................                     2,350.00       2,350.00 8
Homceopathic Library, Books.................................. 1..           50.00        150.00 
Law    Library,  Books..................................................         3,500.00       3,500.00     l
Law Library, Fee Fund (Estimated Proceeds)............................          400.00         400.00 '    l
M edical  Library, Books...............................................        2,500.00       2,500.00  o
Medical Library, Fee Fund (Estimated Proceeds)...............              700.00         700.00
Barbour Gymnasium................................    5        4,375.00         700.00.........        5,075.00 
Waterman Gymnasium..............................    5        4,600.0       0 I50.00          I50.o0       4;900.00 
Outdoor Physical Education.......................         I        1,8oo.oo      I9,000.00....            20,800.00 
University Museum................................      8.7,590.00      I,494.00       1,133.00      10,217.00
University  Hospital................................ 282          9,748.50      205,340.00.........      297,088.50
Homceopathic Hospital.............................. 66            I9,655.00      45,800.00       2,000.00      67,455.00
Military Training..................................  3      900.00         6oo.oo          08.00,6o8.oo
Total for Independent Departments or Divisions..*436        $I76,068.50    $275,76I.o o    $33,158.00   $484,987.50
* Net, less duplicates.




3. EXTENSION


No. Persons
University Extension Service........................ **2
University Extension Service, Credit Plan.............
Total  for  Extension............................  2


Salaries
and Wages
$ 3,200.00
5,000.00
$ 8,200.00


Current
Expense
$ 1,600.0o
$ i,6oo.oo


Equipment..................


Total
$ 4,800.00
5,000.00
$ 9,800.00


N
t___
cl11


4. BUSINESS DEPARTMENTS


Salaries
No. Persons    and Wages
Printing and Binding...............................       tI      $,800o.oo
Storehouse..........................   t4        5,240.00
Total for Business Departments................       t5       $ 7,040.00
** Not including lecturers.
t This does not include labor hired by the day or hour.


Current
Expense
$ 1,000.00
11,450.oo
$12,450.00


Equipment
$ I,050.00
$ I,050.00


Total
$ 3,850.00
i6,690.00
$20,54000




5. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE1 O PHYSICAL PLANT
Department of Buildings and Grounds


No. I
G eneral.............................................
Shop Supplies......................................
Electric  Light  and  Power...........................
G as.................................................
Street  Sprinkling............
Teams...............
Water............
Janitor   Service.....................................
L aundry...........................................
Pow er   Plant.......................................
Power Plant Maintenance..........................
F uel...........................................
Repairs and Maintenance of Buildings and
Land    Improvements............................
Maintenance of Grounds............................
Buildings and Land Improvements..................
Total for Department of Buildings and Grounds..


Salaries
ersons  and Wages
15     $I9,475.oo
46      39,844.00
20      22,550.00
f8i     $81,869.00


Current
Expense
$ 1,070.00
1,700.00
2,600oo.
5,000.00
400.00
500.00
8,ooo.oo
2,000.00
1,200.00
8,579-39
142,500.00
45,708.46
8, 49.22
4,004.25
$232,022.32


Equipment
$ 2,o05.oo
395.00
5,212.00
628.34
$ 8,340.34


Total
$ 22,650.00
1,700.00
2,6o0.00
5,000.00
400.00
500.00
8,ooo.oo
42,230.00
5,823.00
24,378.34
8,579.39
142,500.00
45,708.46
8,149.22
4,004.25
$322,231.66


Cl
t'm.
\O.
O0


t This total does not include labor hired by the day or hour.




SUMMARY, BUDGET OF I918-1919
I. ADMINISTRATION AND GENERAL


Salaries
No. Persons and Wages
Executive Offices.......................  22      $40,100.00
Other General Offices...............................      8       24,600.00
General  Accounts..................................     I          500.00


Current
Expense
$I9,000.00
IO,350.00
30,085.00


Equipment
$ 100.00.........


Total
$59,1oo.oo
35,050.00
30,585.00


2. DEPARTMENTS OE INSTRUCTION AND RESEARCH
A. SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES


Salaries
No. Persons and Wages


College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 280
Colleges of Engineering and Architecture............ 206
M edical  School...................................  99
Law School........................................ 2
College of Pharmacy...............................     8
Homceopathic Medical School....................  15
College of Dental Surgery.......................... 31
Graduate School................................... 20


$409,696.00
235,090.00
io8,170.00
54,949.00
8,595.00
18, IOO.OO
41,020.00
8,500.00


Current
Expense
$35,450.00
20,085.00
33,484.75
2,300.00
325.00
1,100.00
I,IOO.OO
I7,950.00
2,375.00


Equipment
$ 7,775.00
6,280.00
5,I45.00
350.00
I,000.00
1,500.00..........


tm
Total    \o
$452,921.00  00
251,455.00
I46,799.75
57,599.00.8,920.00
20,200.00
60,470.00
IO,875.00




B. INDEPENDENT DEPARTMENTS.OR DIVISIONS
Salaries      Current
No. Persons   and Wages      Expense
Libraries...........................................  66     $45,400.00    $  2,677.00
Gymnasiums...............................          I         8,975.00oo      850.00
Outdoor Physical Education....................   I,oo.oo       19,000.00
University  Museum.................................  8        7,590.00      I,494.00
University Hospital................................. 282       91,748.50    205,340.00
Homoeopathic Hospital............................. 66          19,655.oo     45,800.00
Military Training....................................  3          900.00        6oo.oo


Equipment
$29,767.00
15o.oo
I,I33.00
2,000.00
io8.oo


Total
$77,844.oo
9,975.00
20,800.00
I0,217.00
297,088.50
67,455.00
i,6o8.oo


3. EXTENSION
Salaries
No. Persons and Wages
University Extension Service......................      2      $ 8,200.00
4. BUSINESS DEPARTMENTS
Salaries
No. Persons and Wages
Printing and Binding...............................     I      $ 1,800.00
Storehouse.........................................    4        5,240.00


Current
Expense
$ 1,600.oo
Current
Expense
$ 1,000.00
I,450.00


Equipment       Total.........    $  9,800.00


Equipment
$ 1,050.00


Total
$ 3,850.00
I6,690.00


c4
Cn




5. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE PHYSICAL PLANT


Salaries
No. Persons and Wages
Department of Buildings and Grounds............... 8I      $81,869.00
Totals......................................... *I245  $I,222,497.50
Summer Session of I918, as adopted December 21, I917
(See Pages 97 and   I4) $60,801.67, and an additional $I,I50.00 as approved April 5, I918 (See
Pages 185 and 203), and included in the budget
of June 14, I918................................


Current
Expense
$232,022.32
$694,338.07


Equipment
$ 8,340.34
$64,698.34


Total
$322,231.66
$I,98I,533.91


61,951.67.
_    Q


Total budget including $9,000.00 from Special Funds
as reported adopted by the Regents, June 14, 1918.
(See   Page   245)................................
Less Amounts from Special Funds..................
Appropriations from General Funds, Net-including Summer Session........................
* Net, less duplicates.


$2,043,485.58
9,000.00
$2,034,485.58




BALANCES CARRIED OVER FROM I917-1918
I. ADMINISTRATION AND GENERAL


Other General Offices
Salaries
and Wages
Health   Service.........................................
News Editor...........................................                 $     4.75
Student Council.........................................


Current
Expense
$   47.74


Equipment
$ 210.30


Total
$  210.30
4.75
47.74


til
1 —
\0
c,4
00


General Accounts
Campus and City Plan..................................
H ospital  Plans.........................................
Insurance,  Fire.........................................
Miscellaneous Printing..................................
Photographs of Buildings a'nd University Life.............
Special Sanitary Service....................................
Bulletin to Prospective Students..........................


$  750.00
I,500.00
17,155.48
3,400.00
30.o6
89.06
229.97


$ 750.00
1,500.00
17,155.48
3,400.00
30.06
89.06
229.97




2. DEPARTMENTS O INSTRUCTION AND RES
College of Literature, Science, and the


SEARCH


/


DEPARTMENTS
Administration College of L. S. and A....................
Astronomy.............................................
B otany.................................................
Botany,  Fire  Damage...................................
Botanical Gardens............................
Botanical Gardens, Planting.......................
C hem istry..............................................
Econom ics.............................................
Economics, Economics Printing Fund...................
Education..............................................
English................................................
F ine   A rts..............................................
Forestry...............................................
G eology................................................
Geology, Geological Museum............................
G erm an................................................
Greek.
History...............................................
Latin..................................................
M athem atics...........................................
Mineralogy, Mineralogical Collection....................


Salaries
and Wages
$ 522.37
5.......
568.42


irts
Current
Expense
$ 232.03
1,989.84


Equipment
$   50.31
413.83
1,233-96
120.02
305.50
10,598.52
85.06
264.42
137.38
569.58
444.27
1,191.62
221.72
396.09
34.56
10:26
7.73
85.90
2,500.00


Total
$   50.31
413.83
1,233.96
232.03
642.39
305.50
10,598.52
85.06
1,989.84
264.42
137.38
1,138.00
444.27
1,191.62
221.72
396.09
34.56
10.26
7.73
85.90
2,500.00




Music.................................................
Music, Stearns Musical Collection Catalogue..............
Philosophy.............................................
Philosophy, Publication of Circulation and Sleep.........
Physics,  Special  Equipment............................
Political  Science.......................................
Rhetoric...........................................
Romance Languages............................
Zoology................................................
Zoology,  Fire  Damage..................................
Science  Building.......................................


*....................... o...................


230.65
29.28
17.48
40.00
793.I2


771.59
1,375.00
65.22
60.68
90I.98
784.94


230.65
29.28
771.59
I7.48
1,375.oo
40.00
65.22
IIo.68
90I.98
793.I2
784.94


Colleges of Enzgincee
DEPARTMENTS
Engineering Apparatus and Furnishings................
Architecture...........................................
Civil Engineering, Highway Construction................
Civil Engineering, Huron River Valley Rainfall Study....
Civil Engineering, Highway Short Course...............
Surveying, Summer Camp Fee Fund....................
Surveying, Summer Camp Bogardus Tract Roads.........
Engineering, Training Detachment Receipts.............


ilng and Architecture
Salaries
and Wages     ]
$.......
$   II9.50.


Current
Expense
254.94
650.oo
283.39
200.00
6,284.00


Equipment
$ 5,442.92
148.05....................................


Total    'O
$ 5,442.92  00
I48.05
254.94
II9.50
6-o.oo
650.00
283.39
200.00 
6,284.oo00 
ko0




Cn
0


Medical School


DEPARTMENTS
Administration, Medical School.........................
Medical Administration, Clinical Society Reprints, Vols.
V I  and   V II........................................
Medical Administration, Clinical Society Reprints, Vols.
V III  and   IX.......................................
Anatomy...............................................
Anatomy, Osteology Fee Fund..........................
D erm atology...........................................
H ygiene...............................................
Internal  M edicine......................................
Internal Medicine Equipment (Special Apparatus)........
M ateria   M edica........................................
N eurology.............................................
O phthalm ology.........................................
Otolaryngology.........................................
Physiology.............................................
S urgery................................................
Surgery, Equipment (Cystoscopes)......................


Salaries
and Wages.........


Current
Expense
$ 292.67


Equipment         Total..........     $   292.67


8.69...........................................


355-73
514.63


$  238.12
59.50
1,051.22
163.09
123.00
139.11
79.68
35.25
1,070.05
231.68
102.52
200.00


8.69   C
355.73 
238.12 2
514.63  rt
59.50 ~
1,051.22?
163.09  &
123.00 o
\o
139.11 
79.68  0C
35.25
1,070.05
231.68
102.52
200,00




DEPARTMENTS
Law   School................
Homoeopathic Medical School
Homceopathic Medical School
College of Dental Surgery..
Graduate School, Ford Studi
Summability............


Schools and Colleges Not Subdivided Jnto Departments
Salaries       Current
and Wages       Expense. ee  Fund..........................                $  787.72.........
1, Fee Fund....................... $      787.72.....................................


Equipment
$ 665.04
4,052.67
648.93


ies on Divergent Series and
I............................


11.75


B. INDEPENDENT DIEPARTMENTS OR DIVISIONS
Salaries       Current
and Wages       Expense
General Library.
General  Library,' Books..............................
General Library, Fire Damage..........................
General Library, Library Moving...............................              $    55.54
General Library, Octavia Bates Book Plate................................
General Library, Purchase South Carolina Newspapers....
General Library, Dean C. Worcester Collection...........
Dental  Library,  Books...................................
Dental Library, Fee Fund.................................................


Total
$ 665.04
4,052.67
787.72
648.93
11.75   t
hCl
Total
$  123.46   '<
7,104.6o0  C
1,856.20
155.54
150.00
2,500.00
762.74
586.25
623.33 C3


Equipment
$  123.46
7,Io4.60
1,856.20
150.00
2,500.00
762.74
586.25
623.33




,0
Engineering Library, Books..................................                   3,270.9I       3,270.91
Homceopathic Library, Books..................................53.20                             I53.20
Law   Library, Books...............................................              612.79          612.79
Law Library, Fee Fund........................................                                             I              1.40
Medical Library, Books.......................5,234.7I                                                       5,234.71    '"
Medical Library, Fee Fund.............................................           1,157.46       1,157.46
General Library, Carlyle Collection Catalogue.....................450.00                                   450.00 t
Summer Session.......................................          $57,042.I5          422.45.........       57,464.60 
Barbour Gymnasium........................................................                        I20.13          120.13 
Barbour Gymnasium, Palmer Field Fee Fund......................      3,887.28.........        3,887.28     tlI
Waterman Gymnasium...................................................  232.81         232.81 
Waterman Gymnasium, Equipment................................                       345.            345.II
University Hospital, Dermatology Hospital Equipment.............          I91.72         I91.72 
Biological  Station......................................             2,049.45         781.36.........2,830.8          
M ilitary  Training................................................00.........          I00.00 
Military Training, R. 0. T. C. Uniforms..........................349.75....349.75
Military Training, Rifle Range...................................          224.90........          224.90
Military Training, Signal Flags...........................................1036                       03.36
Museum..........................................................            5.8I            5.8I




Equipment...............
Laundry Hot Water Heater
Power Plant Equipment..
Repairs and Maintenance of
Maintenance of Grounds..
Boiler Feed Pump........
Alumnae Residence Hall Re
Total Balances carried


5. OPERATION AND MI\AINTENANCE OE THE PHYSICAL PLANT
Department of Buildilgs and Grounds
Salaries       Current
and Wages       Expense...........................................................................................................
Bldgs. and Land Improvements.........     $ 3,607.04..............................  670.00..............................,pairs.................................          77.70
over from   I917-I918..........      $60,356.64     $46,454.25




E
$


quipment
81.28
I,195.50
1,403.60........
1,200.00.......
'66,757.64
quipment........................


Total
$   81.28
II95.50
1,403.60
3,607.04
670.00
1,200.00
77.70
$I73,568.53
Total
$  538.55
573.73
209.68
433.92


OVERDRAFTS IN ANTICIPATION              OF THE I918-I919 BUDGET
To BE DEDUCTED
I. ADMINISTRATION AND GENERAL
General Accounts
Salaries      Current
and Wages      Expense      E
Commencement Expense......................................                $   538.55
Diplomas..................................................                     573.73
Insurance, Boiler................................................           209.68
Insurance, Workmen's Compensation.........................         433.92




2. DEPARTMENTS OF INSTRUCTION AND RESEARCH
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Salaries      Cur
and Wages      Exp..................................  $
Current                       $ 3,209.83       c......................... - ]


Astronomy, Government Work.
Landscape Design..............
Education, Industrial Education (
Physics.......................
Physics, Government Work....


'rent
>ense
I.I4
I.57
5II:04
[29.06
273.28






Colleges of Engineering and Architecture
Salaries      Current
and Wages      Expense
Engineering, Training Detachment General..................$11I,913.24
Engineering Shops, Training Detachment........................      10,299.06
Electrical Engineering, Training Detachment.....................       3,234.05
Mechanical Engineering, Training Detachment.........1.... I0,497.29
Surveying, Summer Camp......................................63.05


Equipment.........
Equipment
Equipment


Total
$    I.I4
1.57
3,720.87
129.06
273.28
Total
$11,913.24
10,299.06
3,234.05
I0,497.29
63.05
Total
$   10.00
315.37


B. INDEPENDENT DEPARTMENTS OR DIVISIONS
Salaries      Current
and Wages      Expense
W aterman  Gymnasium.................................      $    I0.00.........
Outdoor Physical Education, Fees...........................             $   315.37




4. BUSINESS DEPARTMENTS


Salaries       Current
and Wages      Expense       Equipment        Total
Printing and Binding, Press and Feeder...........................................            $   26.0  $  26
Storehouse...............................................$48, 60o.25.........       48, S1.25
R evolving   Labor................................................         276.29.........         276.29
5. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE PHYSICAL PLANT
Department of Buildings and Grounds
Salaries      Current
and Wages      Expense       Equipment        Total
Fuel.......................................................     $45,065.60.........     $45,065.60
Repairs  to  Buildings.............................................        1,568.57.........       r,568.57
Farm    Expense................................................                  364.06........         364.06
Total Overdrafts carried over from    1917-I918........     $ 3,219.83   $134,428.80     $    26.00    $I37,674.63


c0
Cn
C-n



