
JULY MEETING, 1981
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, JULY 16, 1981
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Nederlander, Power, Roach, Varner, and Waters. Chancellors
Jenkins and Nelson, and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye,
Overberger, Johnson, Acting Vice-President Jacobson and VicePresident and Secretary Kennedy also were present.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order. He indicated  Tuition, Budget,
the first subject for consideration was the recommendation for Three Campuses
1981-82 tuition rates for the three campuses and related budget
information.
Vice-President Frye reviewed the budget information related
to the tuition proposal for the Ann Arbor campus.
He noted that in refining the budget planning model based
on the latest available information, revenue increases of up to
$30 million would be required to meet both the fixed and
variable expenditure requirements for the coming year assuming
an 8% salary/nonsalary program. Of that amount approximately
$15.5 million would be required to meet just the fixed cost
increases.
Thus, starting from a revenue base of $234 million (adjusted for the $11.6 million in base reductions from current year
levels) a total general fund of $264 million for the Ann Arbor
campus would be required. The additional $30 million in revenue
would be derived in the main from two sources, state appropriations and tuition increases. If the current appropriation increase
of 12% is sustained, an additional $11.5 million would be
realized. If the recommended tuition increase of 18% were
adopted, an additional $15.3 million would be available. These
two sources plus other miscellaneous revenue increases would
enable the Ann Arbor campus to meet its fixed cost increases
and mount an 8% salary/nonsalary program.
The uncertainty of this plan, however, arises from the tentative status of the appropriation. Current indications suggest the
full 12% will not be sustained. Given this uncertainty, a firm


1




2


JULY MEETING, 1981


budget will not be recommended now in order to avoid a further
round of budget cutbacks such as was sustained last year when
a budget was adopted assuming a 3% appropriation increase.
That increase eventually turned into a 5% decrease.
It is necessary to act on tuition rates now in order that
students and families can plan for the coming year. It is possible
to proceed with tuition now since even under the most favorable
appropriation scenario, a tuition increase at the recommended
18% level will be essential in order to meet fixed cost increases
and mount a minimal salary/nonsalary program which will
inevitably fall short of the inflation rate.
Vice-President Frye concluded that the recommended increases of 18% at Ann Arbor and Flint and 22% at Dearborn
are the minimum necessary to maintain the campuses for the
coming year. These recommendations are within the ranges
currently being adopted among the public institutions in Michigan and our private peers elsewhere. These new rates are not
expected to affect enrollment levels adversely as application rates
remain strong.
Vice-President Frye commented briefly on the outlook for
federal financial aid programs for 1981-82 and subsequent years.
He noted that if the tuition proposals are enacted, a corresponding increase of 18% in general fund financial aid will also be
allocated in order to offset the effect of federal program losses
as well as the impact of the tuition increase itself.
Even with these tuition increases, program reduction will
need to continue, but hopefully at a somewhat slower pace than
was the case in the past year.
Finally, Vice-President Frye commented that when a formal
budget is brought to the Regents, every effort will be made to
include as large a salary increase as possible depending on
available revenue. This will be necessary to maintain our competitive salary position among peer institutions.
Regent Nederlander wondered exactly how much in new
funds was really necessary. Vice-President Frye observed that
that was largely dependent on the size of the salary program.
There is a minimum required increase of $15.5 million for fixed
costs without any provision for salary funds. To this one must
add the financial aid increase of $3.2 million. The final variable
then is the amount of salary/nonsalary funds. If the entire 12%
increased State appropriation is realized, there would be enough
funding for a salary program of just under 9%. Even this may
not be possible, however, since the State appropriation includes
funds for special program revisions which the University requested. If these were funded, the salary program would need to




JULY MEETING, 1981


3


be reduced by approximately 1%. If the State appropriation is
somewhat reduced as we now expect, a corresponding decrease
in the salary program may be necessary.
Regent Power commented that perhaps the Regents ought
to determine what the minimum acceptable salary program
should be. She asked how the University would manage to deal
with that circumstance.
Vice-President Frye pointed out that the answer to Regent
Power's question again depended upon the size of the State
appropriation. He stated that even with the recommended 18%
tuition increase and a maximum appropriation, the salary program would still fall short of where it should be.
President Shapiro commented that the only other alternative
would be to undertake another round of drastic budget reduction
steps again which would be extremely difficult given the size of
the reductions that the University has sustained in the current
year.
Regent Dunn asked how much of the 18% tuition increase
would be used up in meeting the $15.5 million fixed cost increments.
Vice-President Frye indicated that almost all of the tuition
increase would be taken up by fixed cost, however, other revenue
increases such as indirect cost would still make possible a 2%
salary program.
Regent Dunn continued that if there is no increase in State
appropriation and the Regents mandated a 6% salary increase,
then the administration is suggesting that such a program would
not be possible because of the $15.5 million in fixed costs. If
such is the case, then the Regents will need to review all the
items in the fixed cost list to see whether they are necessary
or not.
Vice-President Frye agreed that when a specific budget
proposal is brought to the Regents, a listing of fixed cost increases would be provided. He warned, however, that many of
these increases such as utility costs are simply unavoidable. The
officers will continue to review these fixed increases and to
reduce or defer them where possible.
Regent Baker pointed out the fragile nature of the $264
million general fund "best case" and noted that reductions from
State appropriations could only be made up through tuition increases or budget reductions. He was concerned that circumstances might force even higher tuition increases during the year.
He also pointed out that one of the reasons for such a high
tuition increase grew out of the Regents' decision not to ask for a




4


JULY MEETING, 1981


mid-year tuition increase during the past year, choosing instead
to reduce expenditures to meet the budget crisis.
Regent Roach wondered whether taking a posture on tuition
now would make it easier for the State to reduce its expected
funding level. The lack of State appropriations is clearly what is
driving tuition as high as it is.
He also observed that in the unlikely event a surplus were
generated through the tuition increase and appropriations, the
University must be prepared to reduce future tuition rates rather
than allow expenditures to rise unnecessarily.
Vice-President Frye agreed that expenditure control will be
a paramount goal in coming years. The question is complex,
however, since one cannot bring everything to a standstill if the
University is going to continue to accomplish changes that will
keep it not only current but in the forefront in areas of scholarship and research.
Regent Roach reiterated his concern that the University must
hold to its commitment to become smaller and better and not
become lax in its commitment to keep program reductions
moving forward. He added that with other fee increases already
adopted the real cost to students will increase between 19%
and 20% if the tuition recommendation is adopted.
Hopefully, such increases will not be brought in the future.
The market will simply not stand it.
Regent Baker felt that some of the fee increases could have
been deferred. The only way not to spend money is not to spend
it. He was fearful that indeed the tuition increase might not be
enough. He asked whether it would be feasible to defer the decision on tuition until the Legislature and Governor could provide
more clarity on appropriation levels.
Vice-President Frye noted two reasons why action was
preferable now. Students and their families needed to make
their budget plans before starting school in September, and
there may not be a definitive appropriation status for several
months as occurred in 1980.
Regent Dunn felt that the likelihood of an appropriation
reduction via an executive order is very high.
Regent Baker said if that was the case, was there any
assurance that another tuition increase wouldn't be requested
later in the year?
Vice-President Frye indicated that unless a budget disaster
occurred an additional tuition increase would not be requested.
Expenditure limitation would be the first course of action in
the face of unanticipated appropriation reductions. If those




JULY MEETING, 1981


5


reductions proved so monumental that cost reductions could
not entirely accommodate them, wisdom would dictate that
tuition might be an option the Regents would want to exercise.
President Shapiro commented that tuition levels are not a
function of cost increases alone. They also reflect a judgment
of the market impact of those levels and the University's ability
to continue to attract a high quality, diverse student body.
As for the budget, there will be careful consideration of not
only fixed costs increases but also of the possibility of further
program reductions if indeed that becomes necessary to sustain
an acceptable salary program.
Regent Power added that the University must consider not
only what the students can bear but also what the faculty can
bear in terms of increasingly small and at some levels, noncompetitive salaries. She noted that the report on faculty resignations included in the agenda shows individuals with ten to
fifteen years experience leaving for positions elsewhere.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, President
Shapiro noted that the agenda list of reductions in unit general
fund budgets have already been accomplished.
Regent Baker commented on the criteria that have been put Real Estate
forward for the continuation of the Real Estate program which  Program
would require fee increases to make the program completely
self-sustaining within the School of Business Administration.
Additionally, a chair in real estate is to be established from
contributions from individuals in the real estate profession as a
means of enhancing the quality of the program.
Chancellor Jenkins reviewed the tuition increase proposal
for the Dearborn Campus which is set at 22%. He noted the very
serious fiscal position of the campus which necessitated that large
an increase.
The Regents commented on the highly competitive enrollment circumstances in the Dearborn area and the large number
of Dearborn students who are working while going to school.
In turn, Chancellor Nelson described the rationale for the
18% tuition increase recommendation for the Flint Campus.
Regent Baker inquired about the support elements being
provided for the Flint television operation and the Chancellor
clarified the budget figures that sustained that station.
The President noted that the tuition recommendations will
be presented for action at the Friday session. In addition the
question of financial aid programs will be included in the Friday
agenda.




6


JULY MEETING, 1981


RHosepiPrjc t  President Shapiro then turned to a discussion of the recommendation to approve an amendment to the Replacement Hospital Project Certificate of Need which would raise the cost
limitation from $210 million to $285 million. He noted that, as
previously reported, intense negotiations with State officials had
resulted in agreement to seek a revision in the cost limitation to
incorporate all of the essential elements of the project that were
a part of the original Certificate of Need request. The Michigan
Legislature has now concurred in this new strategy by adopting
in both Houses a concurrent resolution raising the project limit
to $285 million and setting State participation at $173 million
plus related interest/issuance costs. The discussion will include
both the physical characteristics of the revised project and its
financial feasibility.
Dr. Douglas Sarbach, Director of Hospital Planning, Research and Development, reviewed the essential elements of the
project which will now include all of the original elements, such
as, ambulatory care, Women's Hospital renovations, Mott renovations, adult and child psychiatric care facilities.
Mr. Saunders Midyette, Associate Director of Finance, University Hospital, reviewed the financial feasibility documents
which demonstrated that at the $285 million level and with State
participation at $173 million, the project is viable from a fiscal
standpoint. This has been verified with Touche Ross and Company, financial feasibility consultants. He noted that with debt
service and depreciation costs built into the hospital rate structure, those rates remain competitive with comparable local hospitals. Including the related St. Joseph acquisition and renovation
project, this adds an additional $10 million to the $285 million
replacement project.
Regent Nederlander inquired about the size of the depreciation schedule which amounted to $26 million annually. It
was noted that this included the depreciation of not only the new
construction but the existing plant and equipment as well.
Regent Dunn then moved authorization to proceed with the
total Replacement Hospital Project at a cost not to exceed
$285,000,000. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
I. MINUTES
At President Shapiro's suggestion, the minutes of the June
meeting were deferred for incorporation of some changes which
were regarded as substantive. Regent Power also suggested that
the sections dealing with the Geography discontinuation be reviewed by others at the discretion of the Officers.




JULY MEETING, 1981


7


II. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on investment transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnellabor relations and the Replacement Hospital Project. He also
filed a quarterly report on non-competitive purchases over
$1,000 from single sources.
Vice-President Overberger filed a monthly report on grants
and contracts for research.
Acting Vice-President Jacobson filed his monthly report on
the Office of University Relations and Development.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS                                                Gifts
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from the following
sources. They were received with thanks and in accordance with
their terms and conditions:
American Medical Association Education and Research Foundation, Chicago, Illinois; for the American Medical Association
and Research Foundation fund..........................$ 18,353.33
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for the
American Cancer Society funds.......................... 36,352.00
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.; for the American
Chemical Society  funds...............................  10,000.00
Anonymous donor; for the following Computer and Communication  Sciences  funds...................................  5,438.56
Atlantic Richfield Company, Los Angeles, California; for the
College of Engineering Discretionary fund................  5,000.00
Atlantic Richfield Foundation, Los Angeles, California; for the
following funds:
Alumnae Council Birthday Greeting fund................    50.00
Atlantic Richfield Foundation-Biological Station Support
fund..............................................  5,000.00
Gertrude C. Benson Estate; for the Gertrude C. Benson fund.. 52,230.16
Dr. and Mrs. John F. Buck, Tipp City, Ohio; for the Eye Center
Ophthalmology Consolidation fund.....................  5,000.00
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea; for the President Gerald R.
Ford  Library  fund.....................................  5,000.00
Colt Industries Charitable Foundation, Inc., New York, New
York; for the Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering
Building fund..........................................  5,000.00
H. DeCastro, Fort Lauderdale, Florida; for the School of Dentistry fund............................................  10,000.00
Marguerite H. Dodge Estate; for Athletic Scholarships fund.... 10,000.00
Dow Chemical Company, Midland; for the following funds:
Alumni Center fund...................................   150.00
Steele and Mildred Bailey Engineering Student Loan fund..  3,000.00
Business  School fund...................................  375.00
Chemical Engineering Special Fund......................  580.00
Chemistry Department Library fund.....................   40.00
Carole Christenson Memorial Scholarship fund...........  100.00
Class of 1931 Engineering Scholarship fund...............  500.00
Clements Library Associates fund........................  25.00
Dearborn Campus School of Engineering-Minority Projects
fund..............................................  5,660.00
Dow Chemical Research in Metallurgical Engineering fund  200.00
East Asian Studies Challenge Grant Gifts fund............  15,000.00




8


JULY MEETING, 1981


Engineering  Building  Gifts  fund.........................  200.00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund........    250.00
College of Engineering fund...................1,035.00
Eye Center Ophthalmology Consolidation fund............   500.00
Law School fund................................         400.00
Law School Alumni Scholarship fund.............     50.00
Law School Capital Campaign-Unrestricted fund..........   500.00
Fred L. Leckie Law Scholarship and Loan fund...........   100.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts fund..........  755.00
Medical School fund...................................    200.00
School of Nursing  fund.................................  100.00
Pediatrics Research and Teaching-Leukemia Research fund    150.00
College of Pharmacy fund...............................  50.00
H. Marvin Pollard Medical Research Institute fund.......   50.00
Residential  College  fund................................  100.00
Howard W. and Ruth Hoff Sheldon Scholarship fund......     100.00
SM-Marching Band Bowl Games fund...................        50.00
Unrestricted fund.....................................     60.00
Vital Margin fund.....................................    950.00
Clifford Woody Memorial Award fund...................      35.00
WUOM    fund..........................................     55.00
Ford Motor Company, Milan; for the College of Engineering Industrial Support Program fund.......................... 24,000.00
Carl V. Forslund Estate; for Athletic Scholarships fund....... 15,000.00
Intel Corporation, Santa Clara, California; for the Solid-State
Industrial Affiliates Program fund....................... 10,000.00
Key Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Miami, Florida; for the Key Pharmaceuticals-Wagner  fund..................................  5,000.00
Hazel Leone Long Estate; for the following Royal K. and Hazel
L. Long Memorial funds:
Athletic  Scholarships  fund..............................  25,000.00
Engineering Discretionary fund.......................... 25,000.00
General Scholarships  fund...............................  25,000.00
Manufacturing Data Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor; for the Robotics
Industrial Affiliates Program fund........................ 15,000.00
Marion Laboratories, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri; for the following funds:
Marion Laboratories, Inc.-Crevey fund...................  6,000.00
Marion Laboratories Educational Fund in Pharmacy fund.. 10,000.00
William H. McClure Estate; for the William H. McClure Memorial  fund..............................................  103,346.99
Paul W. McCracken, Ann Arbor; for the Business Administration
Special  Fund..........................................  10,000.00
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin E. Meader, Parchment; for the Eye Center
Ophthalmology Consolidation fund...................... 36,000.00
Michigan Eye-Bank, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Eye-Bank fund  7,597.00
Mitchell Foundation, Owosso; for the Mitchell Foundation-Medical Sculpture  fund......................................  5,000.00
Sarns, Inc., Ann Arbor; for the Eye Center Ophthalmology Consolidation fund........................................  5,000.00
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana; for the Samuel D.,
Martha B., and Mabel I. Sledd Loan fund.................  6,860.46
Tech-S, Inc., Livonia; for the Solid-State Industrial Affiliates
Program   fund..........................................  10,000.00
Dr. and Mrs. Harry A. Towsley, Ann Arbor; for the Towsley
Foundation-Horticultural Therapy Program fund......... 10,000.00
Walgreen Benefit Fund, Deerfield, Illinois; for the following
funds:
East Asian Studies Challenge Grant Gifts fund............  2,500.00
Walgreen Educational Fund in Pharmacy fund............ 25,000.00




JULY MEETING, 1981


9


The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Giles, Bloomfield Hills. AMP, Incorporated, common stock, divided as follows:
Ray L. Fisher Baseball fund............................  5,100.00
William B. Giles Athletic fund....................    30,000.00
The following nonmonetary, noncash gifts were received:
Marie Azury, Ann Arbor. 600 clay and plastic pots, and 25 flats;
for the Botanical Gardens
Edward J. Bagale, Birmingham. A book, entitled: The Hopwood
Anthology, edited by Harry Thomas and Steven Lavine; for
The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
Suzanne Beutler, Ann Arbor. Ten prints by American artists; for
the Museum of Art
Howard E. Bond, Ann Arbor. Five 19th Century French albumen
photographs; for the Museum of Art
Mr. and Mrs. William A. Chilman, Farmington Hills. 3,435 Middle
Devonian Ostracods of the Great Lakes Basin; for the
Museum of Paleontology
Robert W. Coggan, Grand Rapids. A collection of 161 Chinese
and Korean snuff bottles; for the Museum of Art
Ralph and Carol Coskey, Southfield. A lithograph, "The Red
Head," by Richard Lindner, color; for the Museum of Art
John C. Dann, Dexter. A collection of 43 Nicholas Low manuscripts, dated between 1783 and 1813; for the William L.
Clements Library
Peter F. Drucker, Claremont, California. A Kushiro Unsen,
Japanese hanging scroll, "Noble Scholar in a Mountain Landscape," ink and color on silk, 1791; for the Museum of Art
Charles E. Feinberg, Detroit. A Ya'Acov Boussidan, intaglio print,
from the Song of Solomon Series; for the Museum of Art
Dr. and Mrs. Leo S. Figiel, Detroit; and Dr. and Mrs. Steven J.
Figiel, Detroit. Four Indian stone sculptures from Central
and Northwestern India, c. 10th to 14th Centuries; 45 Indian
sculptures (bronze, teracotta, stone, wood); and 13 Indian
paintings (Miniatures and Pechwai); for the Museum of Art
Prof. and Mrs. Charles Gibson, Ann Arbor. Two Austrian manuscripts, for the William L. Clements Library; and one PreColumbian, Peruvian vase, c. 300-600 AD; for the Museum of
Art
Frederick T. Haddock, Ann Arbor. Approximately 2,590 issues of
scientific periodicals, 45 books, 111 technical reports, and reprints and preprints in the fields of Physics and Astronomy;
for the University Library
Maso Hara, Kyoto, Japan. Four Tenmoku Ware bowls, by Maso
Hara; for the Museum of Art
Jung Hee Hong, Seoul, Korea. The Jung Hee Hong painting,
entitled: "Myself-Soul," oil on canvas; for the Museum of
Art
Sibley W. Hoobler, Cleveland, Ohio. One Chinese Hu vessel, Sung
Dynasty, bronze with wooden base; for the Museum of Art
Polly Hughes, Novi. A violin; for the School of Music
Prof. and Mrs. Gerome Kamrowski, Ann Arbor. 10 works of art;
for the Museum of Art
Mr. and Mrs. Gary Kelso, Flint. Seven music titles; for The
University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Gloria Kitto, Flint. A book entitled: The Rainbow's Raiment:
The Perceptions of Shirley Essex, 1936-1980, by Gloria De
Foe Kitto; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus
Library




10                  JULY MEETING, 1981
Dr. and Mrs. Marvin E. Klein, Bloomfield Hills. The John Clem
Clarke painting, entitled: "Plywood with Roller Mark #1,"
oil on canvas; for the Museum of Art
John H. McCray, Jr., Flint. A book entitled: Michigan's Heartland, by Forrest Meek; for The University of MichiganFlint Campus Library
Dr. Richard J. Meister, Flint. Volumes 49-64 of Mississippi Valley
Historical Review/Journal of American History, volumes
62-67 of Catholic Historical Review, and the 1978-1981 issues
of Public Personnel Management; for The University of
Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Hosain Mosavat, Whitmore Lake. Four Hosain Mosavat photographs; for the Museum of Art
Mr. and Mrs. Michael O'Dea, Flint. A china cabinet; for The
University of Michigan-Flint Campus, Theatre Department
Charles E. Olson, Jr., Ann Arbor. Two Sears Viewsaver window
air conditioners; for the School of Natural Resources
David G. Parkes, Ann Arbor. Ueda's Daijiten, and approximately
25 additional volumes of primarily Japanese dictionaries devoted to the military terminology of World War II; for the
Asia Library
Ellis Periman, Burton. Two books; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Sue Peterson, Flint. Two books: Experiences in Language, and
The Effective Teaching of Language Arts; for The University
of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Mrs. James Marshall Plumer, Ann Arbor. Nine works of Oriental
art; for the Museum of Art
Rev. and Mrs. David W. Plumer, West Branch. One photograph,
"Yumedono Kannon," black and white, mounted; for the
Museum of Art
Mrs. E. Lyman Robb, Beverly Farms, Massachusetts. The Auguste
Rodin drypoint print, entitled: "Antonin Proust;" for the
Museum of Art
Prof. and Mrs. Walter M. Spink, Ann Arbor. Five Indian Miniatures; for the Museum of Art
Mrs. George Stevenson, Ann Arbor. A collection of approximately
100 pieces of 20th Century sheet music; for the William L.
Clements Library
Bernhard A. Uhlendorf, Ann Arbor. Four 19th Century German
lithographs, and the Stefano Della Bella etching, entitled:
"Death on Horseback Holding a Trumpet," from the Five
Deaths series, 1648; for the Museum of Art
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Wagner, Rapid City, South Dakota. A
Chinese woodblock print of Amida, 19th Century; for the
Museum of Art
Mr. and Mrs. Milton Williams, Austin, Texas. Three Japanese
hanging scrolls: "Landscape," "Plum Blossom," and "Black
Bird on Tree Branch," all ink on paper; for the Museum
of Art
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley J. Winkelman, Detroit. A portfolio of seven
serigraphs by Victor Vasarely, entitled: "Constellations;" for
the Museum of Art
Dr. and Mrs. Clyde Wu, Grosse Pointe Park. A Chinese hanging
scroll, "Travellers on Mountain Pass," Ming Dynasty, ink
and colors on silk; for the Museum of Art




JULY MEETING, 1981


11


IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS                                                  Personnel Actions
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW   APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                      Appointments
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
James R. Barker, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and
Applied Mechanics, without tenure, September 1, 1981
Kurt Brandle, Dr.Ing., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, September 1,
1981
Paul L. Carson, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Radiological Sciences, with
tenure, July 1, 1981
Richard B. Couch, Professor Emeritus, appointed to conduct research in
the Department of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, June 1,
1981
Jose' dos Santos, Jr., D.D.S., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure,
January 1, 1982
Harold F. Falls, Professor Emeritus, appointed to conduct research in the
Department of Ophthalmology, July 1, 1981
David Foster Hales, M.A., Samuel Trask Dana Professor of Outdoor
Recreation in the School of Natural Resources, without tenure, September 1, 1981
Gideon Frieder, D.Sc., Professor of Computer and Communication Sciences,
with tenure, and Chairman of the Department of Computer and Communication Sciences, September 1, 1981, for a five-year term
John W. Henderson, Professor Emeritus, appointed for special assignments
in the Department of Ophthalmology, July 1, 1981
Leslie Kish, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Great Books
Program, Fall term 1981
Yoram Koren, D.Sc., Visiting Professor of Mechanical Engineering, August 1,
1981
Werner S. Landecker, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Great
Books Program, Fall term, 1981
Wilbur K. Pierpont, Professor Emeritus, appointed as special advisor to
the Dean of the Graduate School of Business Administration, July 1,
1981
Dennis Rigan, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Department
of Physical Education, September 1, 1981
William D. Robinson, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Department of Internal Medicine, September 1, 1981
Billy Arthur Smith, D.D.S., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure,
January 1, 1982
Daniel E. Strayer, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Finance and Accounting,
without tenure, UM-Flint, for a three-year term, September 1, 1981
William B. Taylor, Professor Emeritus, appointed to the staff of the Department of Dermatology, July 1, 1981
William Randolph Taylor, Professor Emeritus, appointed as Curator of
Algae (Emeritus) in the Herbarium, July 1, 1981
Ben Yablonky, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Great Books
Program, Fall term, 1981
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                    Promotions, etc.
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Huda Akil, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychiatry,
with tenure, September 1, 1981
Bernard J. Carroll, Professor of Psychiatry, appointed Acting Chairman of
the Department of Psychiatry, July 1, 1981




12


JULY MEETING, 1981


William D. Ensminger, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure,
also appointed Associate Professor of Pharmacology, without tenure,
September 1, 1981
Eugene F. Grewe, Professor of Rhetoric and English Composition, appointed
Interim Dean of the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, UM-Dearborn, August 1, 1981
Gerald F. Moran, Associate Professor of History, appointed Chairperson
of the Department of Social Sciences of the College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, UM-Dearborn, September 1, 1981, for a three-year term
Michael G. Parsons, Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine
Engineering, appointed Chairman of the Department of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, July 1, 1981, for a three-year term
Dwight W. Stevenson, Professor of Humanities, appointed Chairman of the
Department of Humanities, College of Engineering, September 1, 1981,
for a five-year term
Niara Sudarkasa, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, appointed Director
of the Center for Afro-American and African Studies, September 1,
1981, for a three-year term
Stanley J. Watson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Psychiatry, with tenure, September 1, 1981
William Zimmerman, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, appointed
Associate Dean for Academic Appointments in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1981, for a two-year term
The Regents unanimously approved the establishment of
The Dugald E. S. Brown Professorship in the Biological Sciences,
and approved the appointment of Professor William R. Dawson
to that professorship.
The Regents unanimously approved the establishment of
The Hobart H. Willard Professorship in Chemistry, and approved the appointment of Professor Philip Elving to that
professorship.


D. E. S. Brown
Professorship
Established and
Appointment
Approved
H. H. Willard
Professorship
Established and
Appointment
Approved


Committee     The following committee appointments were approved:
Appointment
College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, Executive Committee
Professor Robert W. Heywood, for a three-year term, July 1, 1981 to
June 30, 1984, vice Dr. William Meyer, term expired
Professor Paul K. Peterson, for a three-year term, July 1, 1981 to June 30,
1984, vice Dr. Douglas Miller, term expired
School of Education, Executive Committee
Professor Lawrence S. Berlin, for Summer Term, 1981, vice Professor Loren
Barritt, on leave
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, Executive Committee
Professor S. Roland Drayson, to complete term beginning immediately to
August 31, 1982, vice Professor James J. Duderstadt, resigned from
committee
Advisory Committee on Recreation, Intramurals, and Club Sports
Professor Janet H. Lawrence, for a two-year term, August 1, 1981 to July 31,
1983, vice Professor Robert Tickle, term expired
Professor Melvin Manis, for a two-year term, August 1, 1981 to July 31,
1983, vice Professor Alfred W. Storey, term expired
Committee on Military Officer Education Programs
Dr. William L. Cash, Jr., to succeed himself, for a three-year term, July 1,
1981, to June 30, 1984




JULY MEETING, 1981


13


Professor Leland J. Quackenbush, to succeed himself, for a three-year term,
July 1, 1981 to June 30, 1984
Medical School, Executive Committee
Dr. Raymond H. Kahn, for a three-year term, September 1, 1981 to
August 31, 1984, vice Dr. Sarah S. Winans, term expired
Dr. Charles J. Krause, for a three-year term, September 1, 1981 to August 31,
1984, vice Dr. Sid Gilman, term expired
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS                                                   Personnel Report
Personnel Reports
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW   APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                      Appointments
Effective July 1, 1981 unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Richard D. Ball, M.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Michael H. Bradley, Ph.D., Business Administration
Kelley A. Brix, M.P.H., Occupational Medicine, Public Health, July 15, 1981
Gary M. Glazer, M.D., Radiology
Alan C. Peterson, M.D., Surgery, June 15, 1981
Richard H. Simon, M.D., Internal Medicine
Instructor
Eric R. Bates, M.D., Internal Medicine
John E. Billi, M.D., Internal Medicine
Ihn H. Han, Ph.D., Radiology
Joseph T. Latack, M.D., Radiology
Lecturer
Cynthia L. Pond, M.S., Laboratory Animal Medicine
Visiting Professor
Munehira Akita, Ph.D., Ophthalmology, March 30, 1981
Morris S. Arnold, J.D., Law, July 8, 1981
Harry Berv, Diploma, Music
Charles R. Hoffer, Ph.D., Music, July 6, 1981
Visiting Assistant Professor
Joan Edwards, Ph.D., Biological Station
John W. Geissman, Ph.D., Geological Sciences
Yoshiko Y. Samuel, M.A., Japanese, Far Eastern Languages and Literatures
Lawrence F. Schiller, J.D., Business Law, Business Administration
Philip J. Smith, Ph.D., Industrial and Operations Engineering, June 15, 1981
Stephen G. Weller, Ph.D., Biological Station
Birger Wernerfelt, D.B.A., Business Administration
Visiting Lecturer
Gary Glaze, M.M., National Music Camp, June 27, 1981
Lorrie Glaze-Pierce, M.M. National Music Camp, June 27, 1981
Edwin C. Hantz, M.M., Music
Patricia A. O'Neill, M.M., National Music Camp, June 27, 1981
James A. Paul, Ph.D., National Music Camp, June 27, 1981
Mary N. Saunders, D.M., National Music Camp, June 27, 1981
James R. Smith, M.M., Music
Gary M. Wolkstein, Ed.D., National Music Camp, June 27, 1981




14


JULY MEETING, 1981


Adjunct Professor
Donald R. Baker, B.M., Music
Robert M. Gladstone, Music
Nathan L. Gordon, Certificate, Music
Salvatore Rabbio, B.M., Music
Gordon J. Staples, Diploma, Music
Adjunct Assistant Professor
William N. De Turk, M.M., University Carillonneur, Music
Adjunct Lecturer
Joseph P. Johns, Ph.D., Education, UM-Dearborn
Harlon W. Rose, M.A., Bachelor of Applied Science, UM-Flint, May 1, 1981
Clinical Professor
Irwin K. Rosenberg, M.D., Surgery
Clinical Assistant Professor
Gregory G. Brown, Ph.D., Psychiatry, May 1, 1981
Bennie B. Gilmore, Jr., M.D., Otorhinolaryngology, April 1, 1981
John D. McCabe, M.D., Surgery, June 1, 1981
Clinical Instructor
Ronald H. Alexander, D.D.S., Dentistry, June 10, 1981
Wallace A. Arneson, M.D., Surgery, June 1, 1981
John C. Baselle, M.D., Internal Medicine, June 1, 1981
Robert A. Bitterman, M.D., Surgery, June 1, 1981
Robert A. Garwood, M.D., Psychiatry
Gregory L. Henry, M.D., Surgery, June 1, 1981
Terry E. Ragland, M.D., Internal Medicine, June 1, 1981
David B. Siegel, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Sally A. Stommen, D.D.S., Dentistry
Tai P. Yoo, M.D., Psychiatry, April 15, 1981
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Susan H. Carron, from Clinical Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor
of Dentistry, May 1, 1981
Stephen A. Eklund, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Dental Public
Health, May 2, 1981
Sondra M. Gunn, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Dentistry, June 1,
1981
Nancy S. Newlin, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor of
Radiology, March 1, 1981
John F. Riordan, Professor of Mathematics, appointed Acting Chairman of
the Mathematics and Statistics Department, UM-Dearborn, July 1,
1981
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS
Effective June 30, 1981 unless otherwise indicated
Michael Radock, Vice-President for University Relations and Development
and Professor of Journalism
Richard M. Doolen, Acting Director of Michigan Historical Collections and
Lecturer in History


Promotions, etc.




JULY MEETING, 1981                           15
Professor
Robert C. Clark, Music, May 31, 1981
Lawrence Kuhns, Radiology, June 29, 1981
Richard J. Meister, History, UM-Flint
Frances L. Wyers, Romance Languages, May 31, 1981
Associate Professor
Miriam R. Anver, Medical School
Ronald D. Brunner, Political Science
Joyce Crane, Nursing
David A. Jackson, Microbiology
Priscilla P. Soucek, History of Art, May 31, 1981
George M. Whitson, Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Assistant Professor
Preben K. Alsholm, Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Peter J. Benson, Computer and Communication Sciences, and Linguistics,
May 31, 1981
Kathleen U. Boggs, Nursing, May 31, 1981
Ethan M. Braunstein, Radiology
Ann M. Charlebois, Nursing, May 31, 1981
Shashi K. Gadia, Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Richard F. Gutow, Ophthalmology
James N. Martin, Jr., Obstetrics and Gynecology
Hugh B. McSurely, Marketing, UM-Dearborn, April 30, 1981
Nigel R. T. Pashley, Otorhinolaryngology
Jose M. Sobre, Spanish, May 31, 1981
Martha S. Whipple, Nursing, UM-Flint, July 10, 1981
Instructor
David L. Coulter, Neurology and Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
June 12, 1981
Alan L. Hull, Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education
Reynaldo Lazaro, Internal Medicine and Neurology
Richard C. Matter, Radiology
Kurt W. Mori, Radiology
Judith A. Pawloski, Nursing, May 31, 1981
James J. Shields, Radiology
Edward W. Stilwill, Radiology
Susan J. White, Radiology
Lecturer
Paisley N. Livingston, English Language and Literature, April 30, 1981
Marguerite A. Mahler, Romance Languages, May 31, 1981
Anthony J. Scioly, Chemistry, April 30, 1981
Clinical Instructor
Gary A. Cook, Dentistry, June 12, 1981
Two off-campus assignments, four sabbatical leaves, two Leaves of
leaves of absence without salary, one administrative leave, one       Absence
extended sick leave, and five retirement furloughs were reported
to the Regents.
Regent Power commented again on the resignation of longtime appointees including several tenured women faculty mem



16


JULY MEETING, 1981


bers and the importance that must be attached to an adequate
salary program. If in fact these resignations can in any way be
attributed to a lack of competitive salaries, this information
ought to be communicated to State officials.
Public Comments  There were no public comments although the President of
the Dearborn Student Government Council submitted a statement to the Board of Regents commenting on the proposed
tuition increase.
The meeting was adjourned.
FRIDAY, JULY 17, 1981
The Regents reconvened at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Nederlander, Power, Roach, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins
and Nelson and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Overberger,
Johnson, Acting Vice-President Jacobson, and Vice-President
and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regent Varner was
absent.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order and announced
that Ray Salah, representing the student government at the
Dearborn Campus, had been scheduled to speak at the Public
Comments portion of the meeting on Thursday, but because he
was not familiar with the Ann Arbor campus, arrived too late
to participate in that session. He wished to apologize to the
Board.
President Shapiro then asked Mr. Harvey Grotrian, Director
of the Office of Financial Aid, to address the prospects for student financial aid for the coming year.
Financial Aid  Mr. Grotrian listed the major sources from which students
Report can acquire financial support: the federal government, state
government, private sources (which includes alumni clubs, companies, and individuals interested in supporting students), and
institutions. Institutional aid consists of gifts, grants or scholarships, loans, and employment. The federal supplemental appropriations recision bill which was recently signed by the President
of the United States will cause some loss in the federally funded
basic educational opportunity grant (now called the Pell Grant
Program) for undergraduate students in the National Direct
Student Loan (NDSL) program.
The United States Congress is currently considering modification of the eligibility criteria for the Guaranteed Student Loan
(GSL) program which, if passed, is likely to become effective
on October 1, 1981. The GSL program has been available
to all students regardless of family finances and has become a




JULY MEETING, 1981


17


very important source of income and support for the students.
It is hoped that if these changes do become effective on
October 1, students applying for support for the Fall semester
will be allowed to do so under current conditions. With this in
mind, the Financial Aid Office has been processing applications
as rapidly as possible and is well ahead of last year.
It is anticipated that the appropriations for 1982-83 would
be funded at the current level and the National Direct Student
Loan program might actually be expanded.
Mr. Grotrian described the funding losses that would occur
if the GSL program becomes available only on a financial need
basis. He also described a new federal program which would
enable parents of undergraduate students to borrow funds at
14% interest. It has been proposed, however, that this program
be extended to include parents of graduate students as well as
independent students. Mr. Grotrian concluded by saying that he
did not anticipate losses of funds for students during 1981-82,
but there was much greater concern for 1982-83 and beyond.
President Shapiro indicated that the vote on tuition would be  Tuition Rates,
1981-82
taken separately for each campus. He felt that summarizing the  Approved
preceding day's discussion on the subject would not be necessary.
Regent Baker again asked for assurance that the administration would not raise tuition further during 1981-82 if the 18%
tuition increase passed.
Vice-President Frye responded that he would make a firm
commitment, and he felt the executive officers would agree,
unless there was an unanticipated extraordinary circumstance
that could not be reasonably resolved in any other fashion, the
administration would not recommend an additional tuition increase for the coming year.
President Shapiro commented that the University's fundamental commitment was to the viability and quality of the institution and to the University's responsibility to students, faculty,
and people of the State. Therefore, an additional increase would
be recommended only if the University was forced to do so to
sustain that fundamental commitment.
Regent Baker indicated that he understood the problems
with which the University had to deal, but he felt there should
be some constancy through the year. On the basis of the foregoing remarks, Regent Baker moved to approve the recommended tuition increase of 18% for the Ann Arbor Campus.
Regent Nederlander seconded the motion.
Regent Roach mentioned the letter distributed to the Regents
from David Yesh, President of UM-Dearborn's student government, in which he suggested the increase be spread over more




18


JULY MEETING, 1981


than one term. Since the appropriations were uncertain at this
time, would it be possible to increase tuition by 16% in September, then, if necessary, make further adjustments at the
beginning of the Winter term?
Vice-President Frye indicated that in the most optimistic
view there would be no advantage in such a delay for several
reasons: the revenue generated by the 18% rate would be
needed to mount a salary/nonsalary program that still falls short
of inflation rates; a greater increase would likely occur at midyear to generate the same dollars because enrollments are
typically lower in the winter semester; a rate increase, as opposed
to a surcharge, would negatively affect tuition rates next year;
it would present budgetary problems for students and their
families; and finally, it would create problems for the Financial
Aid Office because financial aid assessment and packaging is
based on an academic year rather than on a term basis.
Regent Power commented she would hope the salary program for 1981-82 would be as near as possible to that approved
last year. She also expressed her view that another across-theboard adjustment would have a long-term deleterious effect.
In response to Regent Waters' inquiry regarding the planned
increase for the Opportunity Program, Vice-President Frye
stated that a determination had been made to increase the financial aid funds by 18% if the proposed tuition rate was approved.
Decisions on specific allocations for the various programs have
not been made as yet. Each program must be evaluated to
determine need.
President Shapiro pointed out that there were a whole series
of additional important issues in the financial aid area that
remain quite unclear. For example, there is some question about
the funding of the National Science Foundation and the National
Science fellowships and traineeship programs within the National
Institute of Health. These are very important sources of support
for some University programs, and are critical to budget determinations.
Regent Roach, recognizing the difficult situation this year,
hoped that finalizing of the budget would not extend beyond
September, and that hereafter budget and tuition recommendations could be considered simultaneously. He reiterated his
concern that, as unlikely as it might be, if excess funds are
generated they would be used to diminish future student tuition
costs rather than for discretionary purposes.
Regent Baker commented that he did not like to make the
motion to increase tuition, but he felt it was the responsible thing
to do in light of the problems described by the President and the




JULY MEETING, 1981


19


Vice-President for Academic Affairs. He said he had voted
against five motions over the past year which raised the cost to
the students by about $40.00. He felt that had these proposals
not been passed, the proposed tuition increase could have been
lowered by 2% or 3%. Regent Baker indicated that he would
continue to vote against any proposal that would add to the
cost to the student unless these were absolutely necessary.
President Shapiro then called for the vote on the recommendation to increase tuition for the Ann Arbor Campus by
18%. The motion was unanimously adopted.
Regent Dunn moved approval to increase tuition at UMFlint by 18%. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Chancellor Jenkins, UM-Dearborn, indicated that the problems at the Dearborn Campus were more critical because of the
lack of reserves. He said it would be impossible to balance the
budget this year unless the recommended 22% tuition rate was
approved. Plans were underway to reduce the base budget
another $500,000 this year.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff explained that Dearborn not only
had an obligation to repay a loan beginning in fiscal 1983, but
also had to generate enough resources in order to have working
capital with which to operate.
Regent Dunn then moved approval to increase tuition at
UM-Dearborn by 22%. Regent Waters seconded the motion
and it was adopted.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff commented that preliminary  School of
plans for the four components (library learning resource center, udsniration
computer facility, management education seminar room and  Addition
offices, and executive dormitory) to be added to the School of
Business Administration had been completed. The recommendation before the Regents at this time was to approve these preliminary plans and to authorize proceeding with working
drawings on a phased basis so that the development of the plans
coincide with the success of the fund-raising efforts.
Mr. Frederick Mayer, University Planner, described the
schematic design for each component and indicated that the
first phase would include the library learning resource center
and the computer facility.
Regent Baker asked if the proposed executive dormitory
could be utilized on a yearly basis.
Dean Gilbert Whitaker, of the School of Business Administration, responded affirmatively and indicated the executive
dormitory building and classroom for the management education
program would be self-sustaining and would also provide in



20


JULY MEETING, 1981


come to help support the credit program. The new facility would
attract greater levels of executives than can be attracted at the
present time for lack of proper facilities.
In response to Regent Power's inquiry concerning the cost
of the project, Dean Whitaker answered that it is estimated at
about $15 million-$7.5 million for the credit educational components and $7.5 million for the continuing education components. A consultant had been retained to work with the
School to identify prospective donors, and a volunteer committee
of top level executives, of whom many are alumni, have accepted
a leadership role in the fund-raising campaign. Dean Whitaker
stated that there has been very good cooperation between the
Central Development Office and the School of Business Administration on this project, and they hope to be the pacesetter
for the University-wide capital campaign.
Regent Roach commented that the plant extension report
indicated that this project was to be financed by gifts and University funds, and asked what would be the University's commitment and from what source would these funds be derived?
Dean Whitaker indicated the University has not committed
any funds to the project. The University had been asked to
consider a commitment that would be approximately 10% of
the total only if inflation or unforeseen situations cause problems
toward the completion of the project. To know that the University was in support of the project would be of great help in
approaching prospective donors. Dean Whitaker said he would
prefer not to have to rely on the University for funds if it can
possibly be avoided. All expenses up to this point, including
the architect's fees, have been provided by the Business School.
In response to a question by Regent Roach on maintenance
costs of new facilities and their adverse effect on the budget,
Dean Whitaker stated that the library and computer facility
which are a part of the educational program would be maintained by general funds, but certainly not the management education facility which generates its own revenue.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated that buildings which
are financed from gifts and are directly related to the University's
educational programs have been for the last several years incrementally absorbed in the state appropriation. Vice-President
Brinkerhoff said scheduling any construction would depend upon
the success of the capital campaign for the various components.
Regent Power then moved to approve the preliminary plans
and to authorize proceeding with working drawings. Regent
Baker seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated there is beginning to
be an overload on the V/8 computer at the Computing Center.




JULY MEETING, 1981


21


Based upon the projected demand for computer services, the  Amdahl
Amdahl 470V/8, purchased about five years ago, should be   Purchaeof
replaced. Financial obligations would essentially continue at the
same level as the current budget allocation. Vice-President
Brinkerhoff corrected a statement on page 6 of the agenda report
indicating that because of a change in specification, instead of
an unfavorable comparison of the Amdahl to the IBM 3081
from a power standpoint, it is actually the reverse.
Vice-President Overberger commented that there is a revolution going on in the development of computer use in education
which created a need for more terminal facilities and another
batch station. The basements of the ISR building and the
Michigan Union are being considered as possible areas in which
a batch station could be established.
Dr. Aaron Finerman, Director of the Computing Center,
responded to questions by Regent Baker concerning computer
cost recovery and the use of the computer system outside the
University on a fee basis. Dr. Finerman said the computer cost
is recovered by adjusting the user fees downward if recovery
is more than the cost and upward if less than the cost. As for
outside use of the computer, the perceived attitude that the
University did not want this business is gradually being changed.
The University is encouraging outside usage only to the degree
that there would be no interference with the University's research
and instructional work. The new, larger computer would make
more computer time available to outside groups thus providing
some additional income.
Dr. Finerman explained the use of the terminals and batch
stations used by the students in their various courses. He concluded that the University's emphasis would be on the use of
terminals, but one more batch station was needed immediately
to accommodate users more conveniently.
Regent Baker moved the adoption of a resolution providing
for the borrowing of funds from the Amdahl Corporation to
finance the purchase of an Amdahl 5860 computer. Regent
Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Secretary Kennedy reported the retirement of eleven faculty
members. The following memoirs were adopted.
LYLE FORD ASELTINE, Associate Professor of Dentistry, retired  L. S. Aseltine
from active faculty status as of June 30, 1981, following 26 years of service
to the University of Michigan School of Dentistry.
Born in Mason, Michigan, he attended Michigan State College for two
years prior to entering the U-M School of Dentistry, where he received
the D.D.S. degree in 1941 and the M.S. degree in oral surgery in 1944.
He completed his residency in oral surgery in 1945.




22


JULY MEETING, 1981


Dr. Aseltine opened a private practice in oral surgery in Chicago in
1945. In 1949, in addition to maintaining his private office, he joined the
faculty of Loyola University as assistant professor of oral surgery. He was
a member of the senior attending staff at Henrotin Hospital in Chicago.
In 1953, he entered military service as a major with the U.S. Air Force
in Wiesbaden, Germany, and served as consultant in oral surgery to the
Surgeon, U.S. Air Force Europe, for two years.
Dr. Aseltine joined the staff of the U-M School of Dentistry in 1955
as associate professor in oral surgery. In 1965, he received the additional
appointment of associate professor of dentistry in surgery in the Medical
School. His teaching, both to undergraduate students and to postgraduate
dentists, centered on aspects of anesthesia and psychosedation. In addition
to his work in the oral surgery clinics and his teaching, he conducted a
private practice in Ann Arbor.
He is a member of many professional organizations, including the
American Society of Oral Surgeons and the Chalmers J. Lyons Academy
of Oral Surgery (of which he was president). In addition, he served as
president of the Chicago Society of Oral Surgeons and as associate editor
of the Journal of Oral Surgery.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his
dedicated service by naming him Associate Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
D. H. Byers     DOHRMAN H. BYERS, Professor of Environmental and Industrial
Retirement Health, School of Public Health, retired from  active faculty status on
June 30, 1981, after having completed a long and distinguished professional
career.
Professor Byers graduated with a B.S. in Chemistry from Mount Union
College in 1936 and received his M.S. in Analytical Chemistry from Purdue
University in 1938. After three years on the faculty of the Chemistry
Department of Michigan State College (University), he joined the scientific
staff of the Division of Industrial Hygiene, U.S. Public Health Service in
1941. During his 28 years with the Public Health Service, he gained broad
and varied experience in the field of Industrial Health. This included technical services and research in the laboratory, numerous field investigations,
states relations and program development, and administrative positions. He
was Associate Chief, Bureau of Occupational Safety and Health, and Director
of the Bureau's research and technical service facility in Cincinnati at the
time of his retirement from the Public Health Service in 1969 to join the
faculty of the School of Public Health, The University of Michigan.
Throughout his career he was active in the professional societies in
industrial health. He served in several offices and on numerous committees
of these societies. For 17 years he served as Editor of the American Industrial
Hygiene Association Journal, during which years this Journal grew from a
quarterly to a monthly publication recognized as the leading scientific and
technical professional Journal of this field. While with the Public Health
Service, he developed an early information storage and retrieval system for
industrial health and established an Occupational Health Technical Information Service. For 10 years, he served as the official U.S. representative to the
International Occupational Safety and Health Information Center, of the
International Labor Organization, and as Director of the U.S. National
Center for this activity.
He came to our faculty in 1969 with both national and international
recognition and with comprehensive experience in industrial health to contribute to his teaching and service. He was deeply interested in the education
and development of students into professionals in industrial health. He gave
generously of himself and contributed greatly to the maintenance and growth
of The University of Michigan's excellent reputation in this field.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher for his dedicated
service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Environmental and Industrial
Health.




JULY MEETING, 1981


23


RICHARD B. COUCH was appointed Professor of Naval Architecture    R. B. Couch
and Marine Engineering and Chairman of the Department of Naval Archi-  Retirement
tecture and Marine Engineering in 1957, having served previously with distinction as Chief Naval Architect of the Bureau of Ships of the Navy
Department since 1953. His career with the Navy began after his graduation
from Webb Institute of Naval Architecture in 1933 and graduate study at
New York University the following year, and included periods at several
Naval Shipyards and from 1946 to 1953 at the David Taylor Model Basin in
Maryland. He continued to serve the Navy Department and the Department
of Defense in various capacities after coming to the University, being named
to the Nuclear Propulsion Group, the Shipbuilding Study Group, the Carrier
Review Board, and other similar organizations, by the Secretary of the Navy
or the Secretary of Defense with increasing regularity.
In 1967, after completing his ten-year tenure as Chairman and having
had the satisfaction of seeing the number of faculty and the student enrollment more than double in size and their quality so improve that a viable
doctoral program had been initiated, Professor Couch spent two years as
Director of Engineering at the General Dynamics Shipyard, Quincy Division,
while on leave. Upon his return in 1969 he resumed his teaching activities
and again assumed the responsibilities of Director of the towing tanks that
he had greatly improved and augmented and which were now identified as
the Ship Hydrodynamics Laboratory of the Department of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering.
Recognized internationally for his contributions to the discipline of naval
architecture and for the knowledge and judgment he brought to the practice
of ship design, Professor Couch was designated the David Taylor Medalist
by the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers in 1966. This is the
highest award this professional society confers for technical achievement. The
Society's membership also made him an Honorary Vice-President for Life
in 1973 following his service as Vice-President from 1966 to 1971, as first
chairman of the Journal of Ship Research Committee, as chairman of the
Papers Committee for a number of years, and in many other positions. He
continues to be active in and to assume responsibility for many of the undertakings of this Society. He is also a member of the American Society of
Naval Engineers and of the Royal Institution of Naval Architects.
Professor Couch retired from formal teaching, effective on May 31, 1981,
but he continues to be active professionally and to add achievements to his
already most distinguished career and to the stature and competence of the
Department and the University with which he has been associated.
In recognition of this distinguished educator and researcher for his
dedicated service the Regents now salute Richard B. Couch by naming him
Professor Emeritus of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering.
JOSEPH THURMAN HARTSOOK, Professor of Dentistry, retired from     J. T. Hartsook
active faculty status as of June 30, 1981, after 39 years of service to the  Retirement
University of Michigan School of Dentistry.
Born in Columbus, Ohio, Dr. Hartsook received the B.A. degree from
Ohio State University in 1937 and the D.D.S. degree from The University
of Michigan in 1942. He joined the staff of the U-M School of Dentistry in
1942 as instructor and was made assistant professor in 1947 following
receipt of the M.S. degree in pedodontics. An associate professorship came
in 1952, followed by promotion to professor in 1960. In 1962 he additionally
was made professor of pedodontics in the Medical School and attending staff
member of University Hospital. From 1947 until 1962, he maintained a
private practice in Ann Arbor with a specialty of dentistry for children.
In 1962 Dr. Hartsook assumed the post of chairman of the Department
of Pedodontics in the School of Dentistry, serving in that capacity until
1968 when he returned to full-time teaching. An active member of many
organizations, he twice served as president of the Michigan Society of Dentistry for Children and as president of the American Academy of Pedodontics.




24


JULY MEETING, 1981


Remembered by generations of students, he taught numerous postgraduate dental courses in this country and abroad, including pedodontic
programs in Brazil, Mexico, Puerto Rico, and Canada, in addition to his
regular courses.
The author of a number of publications, he served as contributing editor
for The Journal of the Michigan Dental Association and for the Journal
of Dentistry for Children.
Dr. Hartsook's contributions have been felt in many parts of the
University. In recent years, he was active as a preprofessional counselor
in the LSA College and served for several years on the University Senate
Advisory Review Committee. In addition, he held membership on various
School of Dentistry committees.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
F. E. Hartsuff    FLORENCE E. HARTSUFF, Assistant Professor of Medical Technology
Retirement in the Department of Pathology, retired from the Department on July 1, 1981,
after a most productive career.
Ms. Hartsuff graduated with a B.S. in Pharmacy from The University
of Michigan in 1935 and went on to become an apprentice pharmacist for
Mack and Co. in Ann Arbor, Michigan. From 1936 through 1938 Ms. Hartsuff
worked as a pharmacist at Sparrow Hospital in Lansing, Michigan.
In 1938 she joined the staff of the University of Michigan Health
Service as a laboratory technologist and shortly thereafter transferred to the
Simpson Memorial Institute as a research technologist and laboratory
technologist.
In 1944 she became supervising technologist of the Main Hematology
Laboratory, University Hospital, and began her teaching career as a technical
supervisor of the Medical Technology Teaching Program with Dr. Frank
Bethell, Department of Internal Medicine. She continued to work with the
Medical Technology Teaching Program under Dr. A. James French, increasing her administrative and teaching load as the program formalized and grew.
In 1950 she was promoted to the rank of Instructor of Medical Technology in the Department of Internal Medicine until 1952 when this program
became a part of the Department of Pathology. This was followed in 1970
with a promotion to Assistant Professor of Medical Technology in the Department of Pathology.
Ms. Hartsuff should be recognized for her ability as an outstanding
teacher, administrator and as a counselor to the Medical Technology Teaching
Program.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher and administrator
by naming her Assistant Professor Emeritus of Medical Technology in the
Department of Pathology.
L. Kish     LESLIE KISH, Professor of Sociology and Research Scientist at the
Retirement Institute for Social Research, retired from active faculty status as of June 30,
1981, after a very productive career as a scholar and teacher.
Professor Kish was born in Poprad, Hungary in 1910 and moved to
the United States in 1926. He graduated from the City College of New York
with a Bachelor of Science degree in Mathematics in 1939. He obtained a
Master's degree in the same field from The University of Michigan in 1948
and a Doctorate in Sociology in 1952.
Leslie Kish began his professional career with an appointment at the
Bureau of the Census in 1940. He served as a meteorologist in the Air Corps
during the Second World War and came to Michigan in 1947 with the
founding of the Institute for Social Research. He became an Associate
Professor of Sociology in 1956 and in 1960 was promoted to Professor.
Professor Kish is extremely well known for his popularizing the use of
sampling in the social sciences. Today, businesses and governments throughout the world make decisions on the basis of information they gather from




JULY MEETING, 1981


25


samples of the population. This is a recent phenomenon. Forty years ago,
sampling was used in agricuture and, to a limited degree, in quality control,
but the sampling of individuals for purposes of obtaining information was
extremely rare. The change in these decades is attributable, in no small part,
to Leslie Kish's writings and teaching. He regularly offered courses in survey
sampling to numerous students and through the summer program of the
Institute for Social Research. Within the central statistical offices of almost
all nations, there are sampling experts who were trained at The University
of Michigan by Leslie Kish. He is the author of the definitive work in this
field, Survey Sampling.
Professor Kish has won a variety of honors in his career. In 1975, he
was awarded the Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award by The University of Michigan. In 1977, he served as President of the American Statistical
Asssociation. In 1978, he was elected a Fellow of both the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Academy of Arts
and Sciences. In 1980, he became a Fellow of the Royal' Statistical Society
and in 1981, he delivered the Henry Russell Lecture at The University of
Michigan.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar and teacher for his
dedicated service of thirty-four years by naming him Professor Emeritus of
Sociology.
WERNER      S. LANDECKER, Professor of Sociology, retired from        w. S. Landecker
active faculty status as of June 30, 1981, after a productive career as a scholar  Retirement
and teacher.
Werner Landecker was born in Berlin in 1911. He obtained a law degree
from the University of Berlin in 1935 and a Juris Utriusque Doctor degree
from the same institution one year later. He came to the United States in
that year and began graduate studies in the Department of Sociology. He
obtained a doctorate in Sociology from The University of Michigan in 1947.
Werner Landecker first taught for the Department of Sociology in the
fall semester of 1940 when he served as a teaching fellow. Shortly thereafter,
he moved to the University of Indiana where he offered courses during the
war years. In 1947, he accepted an appointment as an Assistant Professor
of Sociology at The University of Michigan. He became an Associate Professor
in 1952 and was promoted to the rank of Professor in 1961.
Professor Landecker has a wide range of interests within the field of
sociology including sociological theory, criminology and social stratification.
In 1952, along with several colleagues from this department, he published
Principles of Sociology which became the most popular introductory text
in the discipline.
Perhaps he is most widely known for his research and writings concerning social class identification and social class stratification. He has written
extensively about class crystallization, that is, how do individuals make
judgments about their own position in the social structure and that of their
friends or colleagues. His book on this topic, entitled Class Crystallization,
will be published by Rutgers University Press this year.
Professor Landecker is pursuing his sociological studies. He was one of
the faculty investigators in the Department's 1980 Detroit Area Study and
he will continue to work on this study of ideological beliefs in the future.
Professor Landecker offered a wide variety of courses at both the
graduate and undergraduate level. He guided the dissertation research of
numerous students and has held many administrative positions within the
Department of Sociology.
The Department, the College, and students have been very fortunate to
have had Professor Landecker as a teacher and colleague for forty-one years.
We look forward to his continuing contribution to the field.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher by naming him
Professor Emeritus of Sociology.




26


JULY MEETING, 1981


M. C. Meyers      On June 30, 1981, Dr. MURIEL C. MEYERS retired from the active
etirement  faculty of The University of Michigan. She has served in the Medical School
of the University as teacher, clinician, administrator, and clinical investigator.
Dr. Meyers was born in New York, New York and attended high school
in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. She received an A.B. degree from Hood College
in 1937 and an M.D. degree from Duke University in 1941. She had an
internship and served as an assistant resident in Internal Medicine at Duke
University Hospital. She served as a resident in Internal Medicine at The
University of Michigan before she joined the faculty of the Department of
Internal Medicine, University of Michigan in 1944. Since 1944 she has served
continuously in that Department as Instructor (1944-47), Assistant Professor
(1947-53), Associate Professor (1953-62), and Professor (since 1962). Dr.
Meyers has been on the staff of the Simpson Memorial Institute since 1944
and served as Acting Director (1959-60) and Associate Director (1960-78)
of the Institute.
Dr. Meyers' primary interests are in Hematology. She took part in the
early studies of the metabolic effects of folic acid in megaloblastic anemias.
She has had a long and continued interest in pernicious anemia and its treatment. The use of ACTH and corticosteroids in the treatment of hematological
disorders, especially thrombocytopenia, have engaged her interest. She has
been extensively involved in the treatment of leukemias and lymphomas.
(For many years Dr. Meyers taught a course in laboratory diagnosis for
medical students. She was respected as an excellent teacher in this endeavor.
Dr. Meyers has been known on the wards of University Hospital as an excellent clinical teacher by medical students, residents, and faculty. She was
recognized for this with the Senior Medical Residents' Award in 1968. She
has also been greatly respected and appreciated by those patients in whose
care she has participated. An honorary Sc.D. degree was awarded to
Dr. Meyers by Hood College in 1963.
In recognition of Dr. Meyers' 37 years of dedicated service on the faculty
of The University of Michigan, the Regents now salute Muriel C. Meyers
as Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine.
S. P. Ramfjord     Dr. SIGURD     PEDER    RAMFJORD, Professor of Dentistry, retired
Retirement  from active faculty status as of June 30, 1981, following an outstanding
career of international acclaim as a dental educator and researcher.
Born in Norway, Dr. Ramfjord received his dental education at the
Oslo University School of Dentistry and practiced dentistry in Norway for
12 years before coming to The University of Michigan in 1946 for graduate
work.
He earned the Master's degree in periodontics at the University in 1948
and the Ph.D. in oral pathology in 1951. Joining the faculty of the School
of Dentistry in 1950, he was made chairman of the Department of Periodontics in 1963, a position he maintained until he retired.
The recipient of many honors for his far-reaching contributions to
dentistry, Dr. Ramfjord is known internationally for his leadership in
establishing the specialty of periodontics on a scientific basis. He was the
first dental investigator to carry out longitudinal studies (still in process)
on the effectiveness of various periodontal treatment procedures, and was
organizer of the first World Workshop on Periodontics in 1966, at which
time scientific goals for periodontology were established. The dental education
program he developed over the years is known as "the Michigan concept"
and has been emulated around the world.
He played an active role in many dental professional organizations,
particularly those related to the development of the field of periodontology.
He served as president of the American Academy of Periodontology, is a
diplomate of its board, and received its Gold Medal Award in 1973. He also
served as director and chairman of the American Board of Periodontology,
and was made a Fellow of the American Academy of Oral Pathology, the
American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American College




JULY MEETING, 1981                            27
of Dentists, and the International College of Dentists. He is a member of
many other organizations both here and abroad.
In recognition of his worldwide influence and his years of consultant
work with the World Health Organization, he was awarded an honorary
Doctor of Dental Medicine degree by the University of Geneva, Switzerland,
in 1978, and an honorary Doctor of Odontology degree by the University of
Gotenborg, Sweden, in 1979. The University of Michigan honored him in
1979 with its Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award.
A prolific writer, he is the author of more than 90 publications including
two outstanding textbooks. He has earned the deep respect of colleagues and
students alike for his breadth of knowledge of dentistry and for his devotion
to study.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated
service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
WILLIAM B. TAYLOR, Professor of Dermatology, retired from active   W. B. Taylor
faculty status as of June 30, 1981, after a most productive career as a teacher,  Retirement
researcher and clinician.
Dr. Taylor graduated from The University of Michigan in 1931 and
received his M.D. degree from The University of Michigan in 1935 where he
was elected president of his graduating class. He served one year of internship at Miami Valley Hospital in Dayton, Ohio followed by 15 years in
general practice in Jackson, Ohio. In 1950, Dr. Taylor returned to The
University of Michigan and served a three-year residency in the Department
of Dermatology. He has been a member of the faculty since 1953, starting
as Senior Clinical Instructor. He was promoted to Assistant Professor in
1955, Associate Professor in 1963, and Professor in 1971. In addition to his
work at the University, Dr. Taylor has been a staff member at St. Joseph
Mercy Hospital since 1953 and was Attending Physician at Veterans Administration Hospital from 1955 to 1970.
Dr. Taylor is well known as a teacher and clinician and has given
generously of his time and expertise since he joined the faculty 28 years ago.
As a consequence, he has probably influenced as many academic and practicing dermatologists as anyone in the United States, and due to the
tremendous size of the Medical School class here at Michigan (237 students),
he has also influenced the thinking of many medical students towards the
field of dermatology.
In addition to his main interest in the teaching of medical students and
residents, his primary area of expertise has been in the area of Mohs chemosurgery for advanced cancer of the skin. Dr. Taylor has rendered a major
service to the State of Michigan as a referral service for advanced cancers of
the skin and was recently listed in the Best Medical Specialists in the United
States where he was cited for his expertise in this area.
During his career at The University of Michigan, Dr. Taylor has written
many articles ranging from  case reports to retrospective and prospective
studies on various clinical problems. He is a member of several prestigious
societies in the field of dermatology, most notably the American Dermatological Association.
On December 1, 1979, at the annual meeting of the Dermatology Foundation at the Chicago Hilton in Chicago, Illinois, Dr. William B. Taylor
received the 1979 Clark W. Finnerud Award. This award was given in
recognition of outstanding service as a teacher and clinician in dermatology.
The award was given to Dr. Taylor by the President of the Foundation,
Coleman Jacobson, M.D., who read from the inscription on the plaque, "This
is presented to William B. Taylor, M.D., a superb clinical physician, excellent
teacher, and humanist. He has given inestimable service to his patients and
by the example of his dedication to his specialty has inspired and influenced
scores of residents and countless medical students over a generation."
The Regents now salute this distinguished dermatologist for his dedicated
service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Dermatology.




28                  JULY MEETING, 1981
BEN YABLONKY, Professor of Journalism and former director of the
B. Yablonky  National Fellowships for Journalists Program, retires this year after 22 years
Retirement of active service at The University of Michigan. Professor Yablonky was
appointed Professor of Journalism in 1959.
He holds degrees from Northwestern University (BSJ) and Columbia
University (MA). He also was a Nieman Fellow in Journalism at Harvard
University (1945-1946) and a Ford Fellow in Mass Communications at The
University of Michigan (1957-1958).
Professor Yablonky has worked on newspapers and in broadcasting in
Chicago and New York. In his native Chicago, he worked as a reporter and
editor for the Chicago Herald and Examiner and the Chicago Sun. In New
York City, he was associated for six years with the experimental, adless daily
newspaper, PM.
In recent years, he has specialized in broadcasting journalism, serving
NBC News and CBS News, the latter for twelve years. In 1964 and 1966,
during the national presidential election campaigns, Professor Yablonky
established and supervised special nationwide staffs of correspondence for
CBS News, for the Republican and Democratic national convention in 1964,
and for reporting the results on Election Night in 1964 and 1966. Since 1962,
Professor Yablonky has been conducting a weekly radio commentary, "The
Press and World Affairs," over The University of Michigan's two FM stations,
WUOM and WVGR. The program, through the University Broadcasting
Service, is broadcast by eighty commercial and non-commercial stations in
the country and overseas through the American Forces Radio and Television
Service and the Voice of America.
Professor Yablonky is co-author of "Your Newspaper: A Blueprint for
a Better Press (Macmillan), and a contributor to "How to Write for
Pleasure and Profit" (Lippincott).
At The University of Michigan, as Director of the National Fellowships
for Journalists, Professor Yablonky has administered since its establishment
in 1973 a fellowship program for mid-career journalists selected on a national
competitive basis. Under the Fellowship Program, which is funded by the
National Endowment for the Humanities, a federal agency, eighty-three
American reporters, writers, editors, publishers, and general managers from
all the news media have spent nine months at the University in a study of
the humanities and related areas under a non-degree, non-credit program.
In addition, twelve foreign journalists have participated through funding
from other sources.
Professor Yablonky also supervises the Honors Program in the Department of Journalism for selected undergraduates, who in their senior year
produce a thesis suitable for publication.
Prior to joining the faculty at The University of Michigan in 1959, he
was for eleven years at New York University. He was a Fulbright Visiting
Professor in Journalism in India (1965-1966), and an American Specialist
and Visiting Lecturer at the Institute for Advanced Studies in Journalism
in Latin America in Quito, Ecuador, in 1963. He was a Visiting Professor of
Journalism at the University of Hawaii in Honolulu in 1972.
As a teacher and scholar, Professor Yablonky has a special interest in
press history, comparative world media systems, and in the study of the
performance of the media.
In January, 1976, Professor Yablonky was invited by the Foreign
Ministry of the Swedish Government for a visit to study the Swedish press
and broadcasting system and to confer with educators in the nation's two
schools of journalism. This was his fourth visit in his continuing study of
the Swedish press. He also is the ghostwriter of "Swedish Immigrants" in
Lincoln's Time" by Nels Hokanson, published by Macmillan in 1940.
Professor Yablonky has made numerous trips to Western European and
Asian countries. In 1977 and 1979, he visited the Republic of South Africa
for a study of the press, its press law and system of education for journalists




JULY MEETING, 1981


29


in South Africa's colleges and universities. He is a member of the University
Committee on Southern Africa, established in January, 1979. The Committee
is comprised of senior faculty members with the objective of encouraging
new courses, research and conferences on southern African countries, including South Africa, and on the question of apartheid.
He holds memberships in the Radio-Television News Directors Association, the Society of Nieman Fellows, the Society for Professional Journalists-Sigma Delta Chi, and Kappa Tau Alpha, the journalism  honorary
society. He also is a member of the board of directors of the National
Broadcast Editorial Association.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher for his dedicated
service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Journalism.
Regent Dunn commented that he had distributed copies
of an early retirement plan that some institutions have been
studying and asked if the administration had any comment at
this time. He indicated that one way to approach the current
fiscal problems was to introduce an attractive program for early
retirement.
President Shapiro responded that a number of early retirement options were being studied and these would most likely
be discussed with the Regents sometime in the fall.


Early Retirement
Options


VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the
Regents approved the following amendments to the degree lists.
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Bachelor of Science, May 1981
add:
Kay Allison Lee
University of Michigan-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Bachelor of Arts, December 1980
add:
Sandra Jo Budnick
School of Engineering
Professional Development, December 1980
add:
Peter Paul Kuperus
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Education
Master of Science, May 1981
add:
Lisa Marie Carlson, B.S.Ed.
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, May 1981
add:
Tod Richard Brubaker
Rod Alan Dunlap
Susan D. Finley


Amendments to
Degree Lists




30


JULY MEETING, 1981


Donald Curtis Glomb
Elizabeth Gratch
Leslie Jones
Scott Howard Kessler with Distinction and Honors in Sociology
Sung Tae Kim
Molly Sue Mann
Mark Tahen McGovern
Susan Beth Shapiro
Bradford William Stark
Douglas Norman Thompson
Matthew John Van Epps
Megan Van Voorhees
Correct to show:
David Ricky Matsumoto with Distinction and High Honors in Japanese
and High Honors in Psychology
David George McHugh with Distinction and High Honors in English
Scott Howard Kessler with Distinction and Honors in Sociology
Delete:
William Elton Metcalfe
Stephen George Tomlinson with Distinction and High Honors in Philosophy and High Honors in Economics
Bachelor of Science, May 1981
add:
Elizabeth Leilani Lebron
Mark Marsolais
Bachelor in General Studies, May 1981
add:
Raul Enrique Onoro
School of Social Work
Master of Social Work, May 1981
Correct to show:
Patricia Ann Musico to Patricia Ann Massad, A.B.
Degrees    On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the
Confirmed Regents confirmed the degrees conferred at the May 1981 Commencement exercises for the Medical School. Regent Baker
abstained from the vote.
Doctoral Degrees  The Regents approved the list of doctoral degree candidates,
Approved as recommended by the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies for August 1981 Commencement exercises.
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Hospital Audit  The Regents received an audit report concerning University
eport Hospital property and equipment.
Annual Fee    Regent Roach moved to authorize the Vice-President and
Allocation Chief Financial Officer to establish an annual fee allocation
amount to cover utility costs for the University of Michigan
Union, League, and North Campus Commons. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Parking Structure  Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the resolution for the
Fee Bonds issuance of fee bonds to finance the parking structure for the




JULY MEETING, 1981


31


Medical Campus. He indicated the changes incorporated into
the revised document which he had distributed at the beginning
of the meeting. Mr. Brinkerhoff also reviewed the bids which
were received for the structure and explained that changing the
maximum cost of the replacement hospital from $210 million
to $285 million did provide for selected site development funding
which had originally been included in the project.
There were questions by the Regents concerning pledging
tuition revenues for future construction, and the loop roads to
be constructed for access to the new hospital. It was pointed
out that pledging student fees for the bond anticipation notes
enabled the University to obtain a better interest rate from
the lending institution. Student fees will not actually be used to
repay such loans.
Regent Dunn then moved to award the contract to the low  Contract
bidder, Darin and Armstrong, Inc., of Southfield, Michigan, for Aared focur
the construction of the parking structure for the Medical Campus, and to approve the project budget of $5,707,861. Regent
Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Nederlander moved to authorize and approve the Fee Bond
issuance of the Regents of The University of Michigan parking  approved
structure fee bonds in the principal amount of $7,000,000 subject to a change to reflect market conditions; authorize the VicePresident and Chief Financial Officer to proceed to arrange a
public, competitively-bid sale of the bonds and take such other
action as he may determine necessary for the successful sale of
the bonds, including: (1) changing the manner of sale to a
negotiated sale if he determines that market conditions might
preclude a successful public sale; (2) preparing and circulating
an Official Statement; (3) preparing and publishing a Notice
of Sale; and (4) participating in rating meetings. Regent Waters
seconded the motion.
Regent Baker indicated that, in his view, the replacement
hospital was a state-wide responsibility and eventual payment
for the cost of the hospital ought not lie with student tuition.
He said he was fully cognizant of the fact this was a remote
possibility. Nonetheless, it is implicit and specific in the agreement that if payments should be in default, tuition fees must
be applied. Regent Baker objected to the use of student fees for
this purpose and would vote against the motion.
President Shapiro then called for the vote. The motion was
adopted with Regent Baker voting no. The Resolution appears
as Appendix A to these minutes.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff stated that the proposed renova- Renovations
tions for the School of Education building would provide general
office space to be utilized by the Bureau of School Services. This




32


JULY MEETING, 1981


would enable the University to vacate the Argus I Building
which could then be reassigned, sold, or demolished, thus providing a substantial utility savings. If for some reason the Bureau
of School Services did not need this space, the University could
house other units currently in rental space.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the renovations in the
School of Education as described. Regent Roach seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Towing Tank  Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the necessary renovaRenovations tions to be made to the towing tank for Naval Architecture and
Marine Engineering. He also explained the conflict of interest
problem in connection with a part-time research engineer in the
College of Engineering who is also a chief consultant in the
local company the University wishes to retain for this purpose.
The Regents' approval is required for appointment under the
Conflict of Interest Statute.
Regent Brown moved to approve the project as recommended and to authorize the appointment of Integrated Engineering Services Corporation of Ann Arbor as the engineer of
the project. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was
adopted unanimously.
Central  Regent Nederlander moved approval to complete the Central
Envirolmn  Environmental Control project by adding twenty buildings to the
system. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Parkview/Turner  Regent Nederlander moved approval to award a construction
Facility contract to the low bidder, Henry deKoning Construction Company of Ann Arbor, Michigan, for the renovation of the Parkview/Turner facility for the Department of Ophthalmology.
Regent Baker seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Replacement  Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed in detail the proposed
Hospital Project
Access Road west loop road on the Medical Campus. He indicated that by
proceeding with this project at the present time, savings and
benefits would be gained from disposing of excess soil from the
Replacement Hospital Project and by providing a temporary
bypass for Glen Avenue. Regent Brown then moved to approve
proceeding with the project as outlined. Regent Dunn seconded
the motion and it was adopted.
North Ingalls  Vice-President Brinkerhoff commented that at an earlier date
Building
Renovations the Regents had approved only the basic building improvements
of the recommended renovations to the 300 North Ingalls
Building. Approval was now being sought to proceed with the
balance of the project. Renovations would be undertaken on the
6th, 7th, and 8th floors to accommodate wet laboratory space
for the Center for Human Growth and Development and the
Dental Research Institute with shared animal and support facilities, and the Institute of Gerontology at a cost of $2,900,000.




JULY MEETING, 1981


33


Regent Baker remarked that a motion had just been passed
to raise tuition and now the Regents were being asked to approve
a very substantial expenditure. He asked why this project could
not be deferred.
Vice-President Frye responded this would provide badly
needed space for the aforementioned units. Deferring this action
would affect the viability of the Institute for Human Growth and
Development. Dr. Frye said that this is the result of an accumulative problem of not providing adequate space over the years,
and the project would be phased over a three-year period.
Regent Power then moved to approve proceeding with the
balance of the project at a total budget figure of $2,900,000, as
recommended. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Regent Baker moved to approve awarding a construction
contract to the low bidder, Allied Fence and Supply Co.,
Ypsilanti, Michigan, for the "fencing" portion of bid package #3
and to approve awarding a construction contract to the low
bidder, R. E. Davis Construction Company, Ann Arbor, Michigan, for the "general conditions" portion of bid package #3
of the site preparation work for the Replacement Hospital
Project. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Regent Nederlander moved to approve awarding a construction contract to the low bidder, Utley James Incorporated,
Pontiac, Michigan, for the Phase III renovations for Interim
Facilities at University Hospital's 300 North Ingalls Building.
Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Roach moved to accept the offer of $13,300 from
Bruce D. Hukkila for a quit claim deed to an 89 acre parcel of
land in Ely Township, Marquette County, from the Estate of
Helen F. Weber, subject to a reservation of the mineral rights.
Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The Regents received the Auditor General's report for The
University of Michigan-Dearborn, July 1, 1974 through
June 30, 1980.


Contract Awards,
RHP Site
Preparation
Contract
Awarded
North Ingalls
Building
Real Property
Audit Report,
UM-Dearborn


X. OTHER
Regent Nederlander moved approval of an affiliation membership to the Institute for Research and Engineering for Automation and Productivity in Shipbuilding for the Department of
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering. Regent Brown
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The Regents received an item on Extension Services' reorganization and budget reduction.


Membership


Extension
Services




34


JULY MEETING, 1981


Real Estate  In response to a question about the Real Estate program,
Vice-President Frye indicated at the present time discussion was
taking place with the School of Business Administration and the
Regents would be apprised at a later date.
Joint Degree  The Regents received information on two joint degree prorograms grams between the School of Natural Resources in Ann Arbor
and the Environmental Science program at The University of
Michigan-Dearborn.
Membership   Regent Dunn moved to approve a membership in the Council
for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) for The
University of Michigan-Flint. Regent Nederlander seconded
the motion and it was adopted.
Riverfront  Regent Dunn moved authorization to issue bid documents
Development, for the completion of the Riverfront Campus Site Development
UM-Flint Phase III; approval of a budget for the project; and authorization
to accept bids if they are within budget. Regent Nederlander
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
All the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of June totaled $1,905.39.
The Regents adjourned to meet on September 17 and 18,
1981.
RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary




JULY MEETING, 1981


35


INDEX
Amdahl Computer, purchase of, 21
Appointments, 11, 13; committee, 12
Aseltine, L. S., retirement, 21
Brown, D. E. S., professorship established, 12
Budget, 1981-82, 1
Business Administration, School of, addition, 19
Byers, D. H., retirement, 22
Central Environmental Control, 32
Couch, R. B., retirement, 23
Dawson, W. R., appointed to Brown professorship, 12
Dearborn: audit report, 33; joint degree programs, 34
Degrees: lists amended, 29; confirmed, 30; doctoral degrees approved, 30;
joint programs with Dearborn, 34
Elving, P., appointed to Willard professorship, 12
Extension Services, 33
Fee allocation, annual, 30
Financial Aid report, 16
Flint, riverfront campus development, 34
Gifts, 7
Hartsook, J. T., retirement, 23
Hartsuff, F. E., retirement, 24
Hospital: audit report, 30; parking structure fee bonds, 30; replacement
hospital access road, 32; site preparation contract, 33
Kish, L., retirement, 24
Landecker, W. S., retirement, 25
Leaves of absence, 15
Membership, 33, 34
Meyers, M. C., retirement, 25
North Ingalls building, renovations, 32, 33
Parking structure fee bonds, 30
Parkview/Turner facility, 32
Promotions, 11, 14
Public Comments, 16
Ramfjord, S. P., retirement, 26
Real property, 33
Real Estate program, 5, 34
Renovations, 31
Replacement Hospital Project, 6
Retirement, early option, 29
Taylor, W. B., retirement, 27
Tution, 1981-82, 1, 17
Willard, H. H., professorship established, 12
Yablonky, B., retirement, 28




APPENDIX A


RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF BONDS TO
FINANCE THE CONSTRUCTION OF A PARKING STRUCTURE
IN THE PROXIMITY OF THE MEDICAL CAMPUS OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE
PAYMENT AND SECURITY OF THE BONDS AND OTHER
MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order to
properly serve the needs of students attending The University of Michigan,
the Regents of The University of Michigan (the terms "Regents" and
"University" hereinafter refer to the Regents or the University or both as
the context permits or requires) have deemed it necessary and advisable to
provide for increased parking facilities' in the proximity of the medical
campus; and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order to
properly serve the interests of students attending the University, and to
prudently control and direct expenditures of the University's funds and
manage the University's outstanding debt, the.Regents deem it necessary and
advisable to issue Parking Structure Fee Bonds (hereinafter defined as the
"Bonds") in the principal amount of Seven Million Dollars ($7,000,000) for
the purpose of financing the acquisition and construction of a parking structure for approximately 1,000 cars to be located in the proximity of the
medical campus and to pay the expenses incident to the issuance of the
Bonds including funding a necessary Reserve Fund for the Bonds in the
amount of the maximum annual principal and interest payable on the Bonds;
and
WHEREAS, the financing of the parking structure will serve proper and
appropriate public purposes; and
WHEREAS, the University has previously incurred obligations secured by
a pledge of and first lien against Student Fees, subject to the right to incur
additional obligations similarly secured upon condition specified in the resolutions authorizing said previously incurred obligations essentially as follows,
to wit:
"The total amount of Student Fees collected by the University
in each of its last two preceding complete Fiscal Years prior to the
issuance of such additional Parity Obligations are equal to at least
200% of the maximum annual principal and interest requirements
of the then outstanding Parity Obligations and the proposed additional Parity Obligations during any future Fiscal Year the proposed
additional Parity Obligations are scheduled to be outstanding."
WHEREAS, all conditions and requirements precedent to the issuance of
the Bonds have been met, as shown by audit reports of the University for
each of its last two preceding fiscal years, 1978-79 and 1979-80; and
WHEREAS, the Regents have been created as a constitutional body corporate under the provisions of Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, and the Regents have full power under their constitutional
authority and supervision of the University, and control and direction of
expenditures from the University funds, to construct the parking structure,
to finance the acquisition and construction of the parking structure by
issuance of the Bonds, and to pledge Student Fees for payment of the Bonds;
37




38


JULY MEETING, 1981


Now, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
In addition to the terms defined in the preambles to the Resolution, the
following terms shall have, unless the context otherwise requires, the meanings herein specified:
"Bond" or "Bonds" means the $7,000,000 principal amount of Regents
of the University of Michigan Parking Structure Fee Bonds to be issued
under the Resolution.
"Bond Fund" means the University of Michigan Parking Structure
Fee Bond Fund established by Section 402 hereof.
"Bondholder" or "holder" (when used with reference to Bonds) means
the bearer of any Bond not registered as to principal and the registered owner
of any Bond registered as to principal and "holder" (when used with
reference to coupons) shall mean the bearer of such coupons.
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the University, beginning on
July 1 and ending on June 30.
"Funds Legally Available Therefor" means any moneys of the University
that may be legally used by the University to pay principal of, and interest
on, the Bonds but shall not include any funds (a) currently or subsequently
pledged for, or committed to present or future loans or other purposes to the
extent so pledged or committed, or (b) the use of which would result in the
loan herein authorized being construed as indebtedness of the State of
Michigan under the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
"Interest Payment Date" means each April 1 and October 1, commencing
April 1, 1982, during the period the Bonds are outstanding.
"Investment Income" means and includes all interest or profit, when
received, earned through the investment or reinvestment of all moneys in the
Project Fund, the Bond Fund, and the Reserve Fund.
The terms "outstanding" or "Bonds outstanding" mean, as of any date,
all Bonds theretofore or then being delivered under the Resolution, except
Bonds theretofore acquired by the University and cancelled, and except
further that no Bonds shall be deemed outstanding where the University
shall have made provision for payment of all Bonds in accordance with the
Resolution by depositing into the Bond Fund cash or direct obligations of
the United States of America, the principal of and interest on which when
due will be sufficient to pay the principal and interest on the Bonds as the
same becomes due through maturity, and shall have promptly thereafter
given notice of such provision for payment to the holders of all Bonds
registered as to principal and to each holder of bearer bonds who have
requested such notice in writing, by certified or registered mail postage
prepaid, addressed to the last known address of such bondholders as it appears
on the bond register or list maintained by the Paying Agent for such
purpose.
"Parity Obligations" means the Bonds and any other debts or obligations
of the University secured by a pledge of and first lien against Student Fees,
including the existing Parity Obligations specified in Section 501 and any
additional Parity Obligations hereafter issued by the University from time to
time in accordance with the terms of the Resolution.
"Parking Structure Project" means the new parking structure to be
constructed in the proximity of the medical campus of The University of
Michigan which will have a capacity for approximately 1,000 cars.




JULY MEETING, 1981


39


"Paying Agent" means the Paying Agent appointed at the time of sale
of the Bonds or any successor Paying Agent in accordance with the provisions of Section 1102.
"Project Fund" means the University of Michigan Parking Structure
Project Fund established by Section 401 hereof.
"Regents" means the Regents of The University of Michigan, a constitutional body corporate having general supervision of the University and
control and direction of all expenditures from its funds.
"Reserve Fund" means the University of Michigan Parking Structure
Fee Bond Reserve Fund established by Section 403 hereof.
"Resolution" means this resolution and any other resolutions amendatory
or supplementary hereto in accordance with the terms hereof.
"Student Fees" means the general tuition fees established from time to
time by the University, and collected from the students attending any campus
of the University which fees ranged in 1980-81 from a minimum of $1,364.00
per term for an undergraduate resident student to $6,672.00 per term for a
non-resident full time medical student.
"University" means The University of Michigan and/or the Regents
as the context requires or permits.
ARTICLE II
The Parking Structure Project
SECTION 201. Outline of the Parking Structure Project. The University
will accomplish the following purposes through the issuance of the Bonds:
(a) Financing for the construction cost, estimated to be $5,500,000
of the Parking Structure Project will be provided;
(b) Interest in an amount not to exceed $590,000 to pay interest
during the period of construction will be capitalized;
(c) A debt service reserve will be funded in the amount of the
average annual principal and interest payable on the Bonds; and
(d) Issuance costs of the Parking Structure Fee Bonds will be paid
in the estimated amount of $30,000.
SECTION 202. Necessity for the Parking Structure Project. The Regents
in the exercise of their powers and authority relative to the general supervision of the University and control and direction of all expenditures from
the University's funds, as provided in Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan
Constitution of 1963, hereby determine that the issuance of the Bonds for
the purposes set forth in Section 201 is necessary and advisable in order to
provide sufficient parking facilities for use in the proximity of the medical
campus.
SECTION 203. Cost and Date of Constructing the Parking Structure
Project. The Parking Structure Project is estimated to cost $5,500,000, and
its financing in accordance with the outline set forth in Section 201 is hereby
approved. Construction of the Parking Structure Project is expected to begin
in July, 1981, and it is estimated that the Parking Structure Project will be
completed in December, 1982.
SECTION 204. Estimated Period of Usefulness of Parking Structure
Project. The estimated period of usefulness of the Parking Structure Project
to be financed with the proceeds of the Bonds is determined to be not less
than twenty years, the final maturity of the Bonds.




40


JULY MEETING, 1981


ARTICLE III
The Bonds
SECTION 301. Authorization of the Issuance of the Bonds. For the purposes
set forth in Article II, there shall be borrowed Seven Million Dollars
($7,000,000), and in evidence thereof shall be issued in such amount the
Bonds of the Regents which shall be designated "Parking Structure Fee
Bonds."
SECTION 302. Limited Obligation and Other Bond Terms. The Bonds
shall be limited obligations of the Regents equally and ratably and solely
secured by Student Fees and any moneys in the Bond Fund or Reserve Fund,
and the Bonds shall not be a debt or liability of the State of Michigan or
a general obligation of the University.
The Bonds shall be dated October 1, 1981, shall bear interest from the
date thereof payable April 1 and October 1, commencing April 1, 1982, until
payment of the Bonds or provision therefor and bear interest at a rate or
rates to be determined at the time of sale, and shall mature serially on
April 1 of each year in the principal amounts, as follows:
Year           Amount                 Year            Amount
1983           $ 95,000               1993          $ 270,000
1984            105,000               1994             300,000
1985            115,000               1995             335,000
1986           4130,000               1996             370,000
1987            145,000               1997             410,000
1988            160,000               1998             455,000
1989            180,000               1999             510,000
1990            200,000              2000              565,000
1991            220,000              2001              625,000
1992            245,000               2002            1,565,000
The Bonds shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity as provided in
the form of the Bonds set forth in Section 304. Provision for payment of
the Bonds in accordance with the terms of the Resolution may be made
prior to maturity at which time of provision for payment the Bonds shall
cease to be deemed outstanding under the Resolution.
The Bonds shall be issued in the form of coupon Bonds in the denomination of $5,000 and shall be numbered consecutively from 1 to 1,400. The
Bonds may be registered as to principal only and exchanged in the manner
and with the effect as provided in the form of the Bonds set forth in Section
304. The principal and interest on the Bonds shall be payable upon presentation and surrender of the Bonds and interest coupons as they respectively
become due at the principal office of the Paying Agent and payment shall
be made in lawful money of the United States of America.
SECTION 303. Execution and Delivery. The Bonds shall be signed in the
name of and on behalf of the University by its Vice-President and Chief
Financial Officer or its Controller, shall have its corporate seal affixed thereto,
and the coupons attached to the Bonds shall be executed by facsimile signature of the Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer of the University
printed, lithographed or engraved thereon. The Bonds shall be delivered by
the Controller to the purchaser thereof in New York, New York, Chicago,
Illinois, Detroit, Michigan, or Ann Arbor, Michigan upon payment of the
purchase price.
SECTION 304. Form of Bonds. The Bonds shall be lithographed or
printed on steel-engraved borders, may bear such legends as may be required
to comply with any low or general usage, and shall otherwise be in the
following form, with such appropriate variations, omissions, and insertions
as are permitted or required by the Resolution:




JULY MEETING, 1981


41


REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
PARKING STRUCTURE FEE BOND
$5,000                                                   No.....
The Regents of The University of Michigan, a body corporate created
by and existing under the Constitution of the State of Michigan (hereinafter
sometimes called the "University") for value received, promises to pay to
the bearer hereof, or if this bond be registered, to the registered owner, the
sum of
FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
on the first day of April,......, with interest thereon from the date hereof
until maturity, at the rate of.................................. percent
(......%) per annum, payable on the first day of April and October of
each year, commencing April 1, 1982, upon presentation and surrender of the
proper interest coupons hereto annexed as they severally become due. Both
principal of and interest on this bond are payable in lawful money of the
United States of America at the principal office of.................................,.................... (the "Paying Agent").
This bond is one of an issue of 1400 bonds (the "Bonds") of even date
and like tenor, aggregating the principal sum of $7,000,000 (the "Bonds")
all issued pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Regents of the University
on....................... 1981 (the "Resolution") for the purpose of
financing the acquisition and construction of a parking structure in the
proximity of the medical campus of the University, and paying costs incidental to the issuance of the Bonds, including a reserve fund for the Bonds
and interest during the construction period, all in accordance with the
authority vested in the University by law, particularly Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
The Bonds, including this bond, are equally and ratably secured by an
irrevocable pledge of Student Fees for tuition collected from the students
attending the University. The University has covenanted and agreed to
establish, maintain, and collect Student Fees from each student, so that the
total of such Student Fees collected will be an amount sufficient to provide
annually sums equal to at least 200% of the maximum annual debt service
requirements on the Bonds and other obligations payable therefrom when
due in accordance with the requirements therefor.
For a complete statement of the purposes for which the Bonds are
issued, the Student Fees from which and the conditions under which this
Bond is payable, the general covenants and provisions pursuant to which
this Bond is issued, the outstanding obligations of the University which have
an equal claim on the Student Fees with the Bonds, the rights of the holders
of the Bonds and the right of the University to issue additional obligations
of equal standing and priority of lien on the Student Fees with the Bonds,
and the terms and conditions under which this Bond and the Bonds, or any
part thereof, shall be deemed to be no longer outstanding, reference is made
to the Resolution.
Bonds of this issue shall be subject to redemption as a whole or in part
prior to maturity, at the option of the University, on any interest payment
date on or after April 1, 1991 at the respective redemption prices (expressed
as percentages of the principal amount hereof) set forth below, plus
accrued interest to the date of redemption.




42                  JULY MEETING, 1981
Redemption Dates:                            Redemption Prices
April 1, 1991 and October 1, i991                        103%
April 1, 1992 and October 1, 1992                        102'2%
April 1, 1993 and October 1, 1993                        102%
April 1, 1994 and October 1, 1994                        101Y%
April 1, 1995 and October 1, 1995                        101%
April 1, 1996 and October 1, 1996                        102'%
April 1, 1997 and thereafter                             100%
If less than all of the outstanding Bonds are called for redemption, as herein
provided, the Bonds shall be called for redemption in inverse numerical order.
Thirty days notice of call of any Bonds for redemption shall be given
by the University by publication in a newspaper or financial journal published in the City of New York, New York, which carries as part of its regular
service notices of sale of municipal bonds. The University shall send a copy of
such notice to the registered holder of each Bond registered as to principal and
to each holder of a bearer Bond who has requested such notice in writing, by
certified or registered mail postage prepaid, addressed to the last known
address of such bondholder as it appears upon the bond register or list maintained by the Paying Agent for such purpose, not later than 30 days prior
to the date fixed for redemption; but failure to give any such notice by
mailing, or any defect therein, shall not affect the validity of any proceeding
for the redemption of any Bond with respect to which such failure has
occurred. Notice need not be published if all Bonds to be redeemed are
registered as to principal and 30 days notice is mailed to each registered
holder. Bonds so called for redemption shall not bear interest after the date
fixed for redemption provided sufficient funds are on deposit with the Paying
Agent to redeem the Bonds called for redemption on the date fixed for
redemption, and shall cease to be deemed outstanding under the provisions
of the Resolution and shall cease to be entitled to any source of payment,
security or benefit under the Resolution other than the right to receive
payment from the funds deposited with the Paying Agent.
This Bond may cease to be deemed outstanding under the Resolution
if the University at any time makes provision for payment of all Bonds
by depositing with the Paying Agent cash or direct obligations of the United
States of America, the principal of and interest on which when due, will be
sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on the Bonds as the same
become due by maturity. Notice of such provision for payment shall be
promptly thereafter sent to the registered holder of each Bond registered as
to principal and to each holder of a bearer Bond who has requested such
notice in writing, by certified or registered mail postage prepaid, addressed
to the last known address of such bondholders as it appears upon the bond
register or list maintained by the Paying Agent for such purpose. Upon the
happening of the above conditions, the Bonds shall cease to be entitled to
any source of payment, security or benefit under the Resolution other than
the right to receive payment from the aforesaid cash or direct obligations
placed with the Paying Agent.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal amount of
or interest on this Bond or any claim based thereon against the State of
Michigan, the University or any member of the University, or any officer
or agent thereof, as individuals, either directly or indirectly; nor shall these
obligations become a lien on or secured by any property, real, personal, or
mixed, of the State of Michigan or the University, other than the Student
Fees, as defined in the Resolution, which are pledged to meet or provide for
the payment of said obligations; and the liability of the University, as a body
corporate, shall be limited to said Student Fees, all other liability, except as
expressed in the Resolution, being by the acceptance hereof and as a part
of the consideration for the issuance hereof expressly waived.




JULY MEETING, 1981


43


This Bond is transferable by delivery unless registered as to principal
in the owner's name upon books to be kept by the Paying Agent for such
purpose, such registration to be noted hereon. After such registration no
transfer of this Bond shall be valid unless made on said books at the request
of the registered owner hereof, or his duly authorized agent, and similarly
noted hereon; but this Bond may be discharged from registration by being
in like manner transferred to bearer, whereupon transferability by delivery
shall be restored, and this Bond may again from time to time be registered
or made payable to bearer as before. Such registration, however, shall not
affect the negotiability of the annexed coupons, which shall always be
transferable by delivery and be payable to bearer, and payment to bearer
thereof shall fully discharge the University in respect to the interest thereon,
whether or not this Bond be registered as to principal and whether or not
such coupons be overdue.
IT Is HEREBY CERTIFIED AND RECITED that all acts and conditions required to be done, to happen or to be performed precedent to and in the
issuance of this Bond, have been done, have happened and have been performed in due time, form and manner, as required by law.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Regents of The University of Michigan has
caused this Bond to be signed for it and in its behalf by its Controller and
its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed, and has caused the annexed interest
coupons to be executed and authenticated by the facsimile signature of its
Controller all as of the first day of October, A.D., 1981.
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
B y....................................
Its Controller
(SEAL)
(Form of Coupon)
N o........                                        $..............
On October (April ) 1, 19..., unless the bond hereinafter mentioned
shall have been duly called for previous redemption, the REGENTS OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN promise to pay to bearer from Student Fees as
defined in the Resolution, pursuant to which said bond is issued, the sum
of........................ Dollars, lawful money of the United States
of America, at the principal office of................................................................................ being the interest due that
date on THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, PARKING STRUCTURE FEE BOND,
dated October, 1981, No..........
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN


By....................................




44


JULY MEETING, 1981


REGISTRATION
NOTHING TO BE WRITTEN HEREON EXCEPT
BY THE PAYING AGENT
Date of               Signature              Name of
Registration        of Paying Agent        Registered Owner
SECTION 305. Replacement of Bonds. Subject to applicable State of
Michigan law, in case a Bond or any coupons belonging thereto shall be
mutilated, lost, stolen, or destroyed, then upon production of such mutilated
Bond or coupon or evidence satisfactory to the Paying Agent and the
University of the loss, theft or destruction of such Bond and the coupons
attached hereto, and receipt of indemnity satisfactory to the University
and the Paying Agent, the University, in its discretion, may execute and
deliver a substitute Bond and coupons in exchange for and upon cancellation
of the Bond which has been mutilated, or in lieu of the Bond which has been
lost, stolen, or destroyed. The Paying Agent and the University may require
payment by the owner of such Bond or coupons of a sum sufficient to reimburse them for any expense incurred in the preparation and issuance of
such substitute Bond or coupons.
SECTION 306. Cancellation of Bonds and Coupons. All Bonds which
have been retired by maturity, redemption, or purchase by the University
and all paid coupons shall be cancelled by the Paying Agent and delivered
to the University.
ARTICLE IV
Establishment of Funds
SECTION 401. Establishment of Project Fund. There is hereby created
and established the Project Fund, which shall be a sub-account within a
general banking account of the University designated by the Vice-President
and Chief Financial Officer. There shall be deposited in the Project Fund
all proceeds from the sale of the Bonds, except premium and accrued interest
to be deposited in the Bond Fund pursuant to Section 402 and the proceeds
deposited in the Reserve Fund pursuant to Section 403. All moneys in the
Project Fund shall be used for the purposes and disbursed as provided in
Article VI.
SECTION 402. Establishment of Bond Fund. There is hereby created
and established with the Paying Agent the Bond Fund. There shall be
deposited in the Bond Fund:
1. Any accrued interest or premium received at the time of delivery
of the Bonds.
2. Student Fees as pledged and required to be paid into the Bond Fund
at the times and in the amounts provided in Section 502.
3. All Funds Legally Available Therefor authorized or permitted to be
paid into the Bond Fund pursuant to Section 503.
4. All Investment Income.
5. Any moneys remaining in the Project Fund after the disbursements
provided for in Article VI.




JULY MEETING, 1981


45


6. Any moneys required to be deposited in the Bond Fund from the
Reserve Fund as provided in Section 604.
All moneys in the Bond Fund shall be used for the purposes and disbursed
as provided in Article VI.
SECTION 403. Establishment of Reserve Fund. There is hereby created
and established with the Paying Agent the Reserve Fund. There shall be
deposited in the Reserve Fund from the proceeds of the sale of the Bonds a
sum equal to the average annual principal and interest payable on the Bonds.
All moneys in the Reserve Fund shall be used for the purposes and disbursed as provided in Article VI.
ARTICLE V
Sources of Payment and Security for the Bonds
SECTION 501. Security for the Bonds. The Bonds are not debts or
general obligations of the State of Michigan, nor general obligations of the
University, but are limited obligations of the University equally and ratably
secured only by the following:
1. All moneys in the Bond Fund;
2. All moneys in the Reserve Fund;
3. Student Fees and the University's right to receive Student Fees; and
4. All of the proceeds of the foregoing.
The University hereby pledges and grants to the Bondholders a security
interest in all of the foregoing, and in order to assure this security the
University covenants and agrees that the Bondholders shall have a first lien
on all moneys in the Bond Fund and Reserve Fund, and that the Bondholders
shall have a first lien against Student Fees of equal standing and priority
of lien with the pledge of Student Fees for other Parity Obligations, including additional Parity Obligations which the University reserves the right
to issue under Article VII and the existing (as of June 30, 1981) Parity
Obligations of the University, as follows:
1. University Events Building Bonds
Original Amount-$5,800,000
Dated-February 1, 1966
Final Maturity-April 1, 1996
Amount Outstanding (June 30, 1981)-$3,670,000
2. Graduate Library Building Bonds
Original Amount-$2,000,000
Dated-July 1, 1969
Final Maturity-April 1, 1999
Amount Outstanding (June 30, 1981)-$1,400,000
3. Recreational Activities Building Fee Bonds*
Original Amount-$6,170,000
Dated-August 1, 1975
Final Maturity-April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (June 30, 1981)-$5,570,000
[*Qualified to the extent that certain investment securities acquired
with the proceeds of the hereinafter referenced $6,590,000 Recreational Activities Buildings Fee Refunding Bonds are sufficient to
retire the outstanding Recreatioinal Activities Building Fee Bonds
as they mature or are subject to redemption on October 1, 1985.]




46


JULY MEETING, 1981


4. Flint Parking Facility-Term Loan
Original Amount-$280,000
Dated-September 21, 1976
Final Maturity-April 1, 1982
Amount Outstanding (June 30, 1981) -$10,000
5. Recreational Activities Buildings Fee Refunding Bonds
Original Amount-$6,590,000
Dated-July 1, 1977
Final Maturity-April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (June 30, 1981)-$6,590,000
6. Dearborn Recreational Buildings Fee Refunding Bonds
Original Amount-$3,500,000
Dated-April 1, 1978
Final Maturity-April 1, 2008
Amount Outstanding (June 30, 1981)-$3,500,000
7. Student Loan Fund-Term Loan
Original Amount-$1,500,000
Dated-August 1, 1978
Final Maturity-April 1, 1982
Amount Outstanding (June 30, 1981)-$1,500,000
8. Michigan League Repair and Renovation-Term Loan
Original Amount-$250,000
Dated-February 20, 1979
Final Maturity April 1, 1984
Amount Outstanding (June 30, 1981)-$160,000
9. Computer Center-Term Loan
Original Amount-$2,400,000
Dated-March 20, 1979
Final Maturity-April 1, 1983
Amount Outstanding (June 30, 1981)-$1,270,000
10. Dearborn Campus Project Fee Bonds
Original Amount-$10,180,000
Dated-July 1, 1979
Final Maturity-April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (June 30, 1981)-$10,180,000
11. Flint University Center-Term Loan
Original Amount-$400,000
Dated-September 22, 1979
Final Maturity-April 1, 1986
Amount Outstanding (June 30, 1981)-$310,000
12. North Ingalls Building Fee Bonds
Original Amount-$2,900,000
Dated-April 1, 1981
Final Maturity-April 1, 1991
Amount Outstanding (June 30, 1981)-$2,900,000
SECTION 502. Student Fees as Source of Payment of Bonds. To the
extent that on the fifth day preceding any Interest Payment Date the moneys
then on deposit in the Bond Fund are not sufficient to meet the interest or
principal and interest payment coming due on such Interest Payment Date,
the University shall, commencing March 26, 1982, and on each subsequent
fifth day preceding each Interest Payment Date while the Bonds remaining




JULY MEETING, 1981                           47
outstanding, pay into the Bond Fund an amount of Student Fees sufficient to
pay the interest or principal and interest payment coming due on such
Interest Payment Date.
SECTION 503. Funds Legally Available Therefor as Source of Payment
for the Bonds. The University reserves the right to use any Funds Legally
Available Therefor for the purpose of paying principal or interest on the
Bonds.
ARTICLE VI
Flow and Use of Funds
SECTION 601. Application of Bond Proceeds. Immediately upon the
receipt thereof, the proceeds of the sale of the Bonds shall be apportioned
among and deposited in the Project Fund, the Bond Fund, and the Reserve
Fund in the following manner:
1. Any accrued interest and premium received on sale of the Bonds
shall be deposited in the Bond Fund;
2. A sum equal to the average annual principal and interest payable
on the Bonds shall be deposited in the Reserve Fund; and
3. The balance of the proceeds of the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Project Fund.
SSECTION 602. Use of and Disbursements from Project Fund. Moneys in
the Project Fund shall be used pursuant to the following priorities:
1. Payment of accounting, financial consulting, legal, printing, and other
expenses of the University's in connection with the preparation, issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds;
2. Payments necessary to finance the construction costs of the Parking
Structure Project; and
3. Moneys in the Project Fund may be transferred to the Bond Fund to
pay interest accruing through completion of construction, or $590,000,
whichever amount is less.
Any amount remaining in the Project Fund after completion of the construction of the Project and payment of the costs thereof, shall be promptly
transferred to the Bond Fund. The University covenants that it will deposit
in the Project Fund from Funds Legally Available Therefor amounts that
may be necessary to pay expenses incidental thereto and to the issuance of
the Bonds to the extent that the proceeds of the Bonds are not sufficient
therefor. The depository for the Project Fund shall make disbursements from
the Project Fund upon the order of the University, and shall have no duty
or liability with respect to the manner or method in which moneys are
withdrawn by the University from the Project Fund or in fact are used
or applied by the University.
SECTION 603. Use of and Disbursements from Bond Fund. The Paying
Agent shall use moneys in the Bond Fund to pay principal and interest on
the Bonds as the same become due and the Bonds or coupons evidencing
the same are presented and surrendered. The Paying Agent may use moneys
in the Bond Fund for the acquisition of Bonds in the open market at the
written direction of the University. Any amount remaining in the Bond
Fund after the Bonds have been paid or provision made therefor under the
Resolution shall be returned to the University.
SECTION 604. Use of and Disbursements from Reserve Fund. If at any
time there are not sufficient funds in the Bond Fund for the payment of the
principal of or interest on the Bonds as the same become due, the Paying
Agent shall withdraw from the Reserve Fund and deposit in the Bond Fund
sufficient moneys which when added to the moneys in the Bond Fund will
be sufficient to meet the payment of principal of and interest then due on




48


JULY MEETING, 1981


the Bonds. The University covenants and agrees that if at any time moneys
are withdrawn from the Reserve Fund for such purposes, there shall be
promptly deposited from time to time in the Reserve Fund from the first
Student Fees received thereafter which are not required to make principal or
interest payments on Parity Obligations, a sum sufficient to replace the
amount so withdrawn. To the extent that Student Fees shall not be sufficient
for such replacement and for the replacement of withdrawals from reserves
for other Parity Obligations of the University, the amount deposited in the
Reserve Fund in accordance herewith shall be in proportion to the total
requirements for replacement of withdrawals from reserves for other Parity
Obligations and shall be measured by the principal amount of Parity
Obligations at the time outstanding.
At the written direction of the University the moneys in the Reserve
Fund shall be finally transferred to the Bond Fund by the Paying Agent
and applied in payment of the Bonds and interest thereon at such time as
the balance in the Reserve Fund, together with any amount in the Bond
Fund, shall be sufficient for payment in full of the principal of all Bonds,
including interest thereon through maturity, and payment of all fees and
expenses owing to the Paying Agent. Any balance remaining thereafter
in the Reserve Fund shall be returned to the University by the Paying
Agent.
SECTION 605. Investments. Moneys held for the credit of the Bond Fund
and the Reserve Fund not required for immediate use or disbursement shall,
as nearly as may be practicable, be continuously invested and reinvested by
the Paying Agent in accordance with the written direction of the University
in the following investments:
1. Direct obligations of the United States of America or the State of
Michigan or in obligations, the principal and interest of which are
unconditionally guaranteed by the United States of America or the
State of Michigan; or
2. Interest bearing savings account or accounts or certificates of deposit
of any bank whose deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Moneys in the Project Fund shall be invested at the direction of the
Regents in any investments legally available for University funds.
The above investments shall mature not later than the respective dates
estimated when the moneys in said Funds shall be needed for the purposes
provided in the Resolution. All investments may be sold at the prevailing
market price. All investments shall be deemed a part of the Fund with whose
moneys they were acquired, and all profits and losses shall be charged to
such Fund; provided, however, that all Investment Income as received shall
be deposited in the Bond Fund.
SECTION 606. Arbitrage. The University shall not invest, reinvest, or
accumulate any moneys deemed to be proceeds of the Bonds pursuant to
~103(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, and the applicable regulations thereunder, in such a manner as to cause the Bonds to be
"arbitrage Bonds" within the meaning of said ~103(c) and the applicable
regulations thereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Additional Parity Obligations and Defeasance
SECTION 701. Additional Parity Obligations. The University reserves the
right to issue additional Parity Obligations for any authorized purpose
having equal standing and priority of lien against Student Fees with the
Bonds and other then existing Parity Obligations of the University, provided:




JULY MEETING, 1981


49


(a) the University by its Controller certifies that the total amount
of Student Fees collected by the University in each of its last two
preceding Fiscal Years prior to the issuance of such proposed additional
Parity Obligations are equal to at least 200% of the maximum annual
principal and interest requirements of the then outstanding Parity
Obligations and the proposed additional Parity Obligations during any
future Fiscal Year of the Bonds are scheduled to be outstanding; and
(b) the proposed additional Parity Obligations shall be payable
as to principal only on April 1 of the year or years of maturity and
payable as to interest either annually or seminannually on April 1 or
October 1 of such years.
SECTION 702. Defeasance. Upon payment into the Bond Fund of the
principal of and interest on the Bonds or provision for such payment with
cash or direct obligations of the United States of America the principal of
and interest on which when due will be sufficient to pay the principal and
interest on the Bonds as the same become due through maturity and notice
to the Bondholders as hereinbefore specified, the Student Fees shall be released from the lien of the Resolution, the University shall be released from
the terms of the Resolution, and except for payment thereof only from said
cash or direct obligations of the United States of America, the Bonds shall
not be deemed to be outstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Further Covenants and Limitation on Recourse of Bondholders
The University covenants and agrees with the holders of the Bonds as
follows:
SECTION 801. Establishment and Maintenance of Student Fees. So long
as any of the Bonds shall remain outstanding, the University shall establish
and maintain Student Fees at amounts sufficient to provide annually sums
equal to at least two hundred percent (200%) of the maximum future annual
debt service requirements on all Parity Obligations.
SECTION 802. Audits and Records. The University shall keep and maintain accurate books and records relating to the collection of Student Fees
and the allocation thereof, the enrollment of students in the University and
the payments into the Bond Fund and Reserve Fund, which said books and
records shall be open for inspection by any holder of the Bonds at any
reasonable time. Said books and records shall be audited annually by a
certified public accountant and a copy of said audit sent to the managers of
the syndicate purchasing the Bonds from the University not later than four
months after the end of each Fiscal Year.
SECTION 803. Payment of Bonds. The University shall, out of Student
Fees and moneys in the Bond Fund and Reserve Fund, duly and punctually
pay the principal of and interest on each Bond at the places, on the dates,
and in the manner provided in the Bonds and in the coupons appertaining
thereto, according to the true intent and meaning thereof.
SECTION 804. Performance of Covenants; Authority. The University shall
faithfully perform all of its covenants, undertakings, provisions, and agreements contained in the Resolution and in any Bond executed and delivered
hereunder and in all other proceedings of the University pertaining thereto.
The University is duly authorized under the Constitution and laws of the
State of Michigan to adopt the Resolution, to issue the Bonds, to pledge
Student Fees in the manner and to the extent herein set forth, and to construct the Parking Structure Project as contemplated by this Resolution; all
action on its part relating to the adoption of the Resolution and the issuance,
execution and delivery of any Bonds has been or will be duly and effectively




50


JULY MEETING, 1981


taken prior to the delivery of such Bonds; and the Bonds in the hands of
the holders and owners thereof are and will be valid and enforceable limited
obligations of the University according to their terms.
SECTION 805. Further Assurances. The University shall, to the extent
authorized or permitted by law, do, adopt, make, execute, acknowledge, and
deliver such further acts, resolutions, deeds, conveyances, pledges, and assurances as may be necessary or desirable for the better assuring, pledging,
and confirming unto the Bondholders the Student Fees pledged hereunder
or intended so to be.
SECTION 806. Limited Recourse. There shall be no recourse under any
obligation, covenant, or agreement contained in the Resolution or any Bond
or coupon thereto attached against the State of Michigan, or the University
or any member or officer of the University, it being expressly understood
and agreed that the Bonds and the coupons thereto attached and the
obligations hereunder are secured by and payable only from Student Fees
or moneys at such time in the Bond Fund or Reserve Fund.
ARTICLE IX
Supplemental Resolutions
SECTION 901. Supplemental Resolutions Not Requiring Consent of
Bondholders. The University may without the consent of the Bondholders
adopt resolutions supplemental to the Resolution as shall not be inconsistent with the terms and provisions hereof for any one or more of the
following purposes:
(a) To provide for the issuance and sale of additional Parity
Obligations;
(b) To confirm or further assure the Student Fees or to grant or
pledge to the Bondholders any additional security;
(c) To add additional covenants and agreements of the University
for the purpose of further securing the payment of the Bonds;
(d) To prescribe further limitations and restrictions upon the issuance of Parity Obligations by the University;
(e) To cure any ambiguity or formal defect or omission in the
Resolution.
SECTION 902. Supplemental Resolutions Requiring Consent of Bondholders. Exclusive of supplemental resolutions covered by Section 901 for
which consent of Bondholders is not required, the holders of not less than
65% in the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds outstanding shall have
the right to consent to the adoption by the University of such other supplemental or amendatory resolutions as shall be deemed necessary and desirable
by the University; provided, however, that nothing contained in this Section
shall permit, or be construed as permitting, (i) an extension of the maturity
of the principal of or the interest on any Bond issued hereunder, or (ii) a
reduction in the principal amount of any Bond or the rate of interest thereon,
or (iii) a privilege or priority of any Bond or Bonds over any other Bond
or Bonds, or (iv) a reduction in the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds
required for consent to such supplemental or amendatory resolution.
If the University shall propose to adopt a supplemental resolution requiring consent of the Bondholders, it shall cause notice of the proposed
adoption of such supplemental resolution to be published in a daily newspaper or financial journal of general circulation in New York, New York,
which carries as part of its regular service notices of sale of municipal bonds.
Such notice shall briefly set forth the nature of the proposed supplemental
or amendatory resolution and shall state that copies thereof are on file at
the principal office of the University for inspection by all Bondholders. If
within six months following the publication of such notice, the holders of
not less than 65% in aggregate principal amount of the Bonds outstanding at




JULY MEETING, 1981


51


the time of the adoption of any such supplemental or amendatory resolution
shall have consented in writing to the adoption thereof, upon the adoption
of such supplemental or amendatory resolution, the Resolution shall be
deemed to be amended in accordance therewith.
ARTICLE X
Method of Sale of Bonds, Preparation of Official Statement and
Notice of Sale
SECTION 1001. Preparation of Official Statement and Notice of Sale.
The Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer of the University shall direct
and participate with Bond Counsel in the preparation of an Official Statement and a Notice of Sale to be used in connection with a public competitively bid sale of the Bonds, including in the case of the Notice of Sale,
provision for any maximum interest rate and other terms of sale as he may
determine appropriate and that he might reasonably anticipate to be ratified
and approved by the Regents at the time of the sale of the Bonds. The
Notice of Sale shall be executed by the Vice-President and Chief Financial
Officer and shall be published at least seven days prior to the time of sale
as determined by the Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer, in the Daily
Bond Buyer of New York, New York and the Michigan Investor, Detroit,
Michigan.
The Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer shall provide for the
circulation of the Official Statement, participate in rating meetings, and take
such other action as he may determine necessary for the successful sale of the
Bonds, including providing such changes in the terms of the Bonds for
purposes of the Notice of Sale as he might reasonably anticipate would be
ratified and approved by the Regents at the time of sale of the Bonds (e.g.,
increase or reduction of the principal amount of Bonds to correspond to
construction bids for the Project or variation in the serial maturities).
In the event that the Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer determines
that economic conditions might preclude a successful public competitively
bid sale, he shall have the authority to negotiate the sale of the Bonds under
such procedures as he shall deem prudent and appropriate, subject to ratification and approval by the Regents at the time of sale of the Bonds.
SECTION 1002. Resolution Constitutes Contract. The provisions of the
Resolution shall constitute a contract between the University and Bondholders to the equal and ratable benefit and protection of each Bondholder,
and after delivery of the Bonds, no change, variation, or alteration of the
provisions of the Resolution may be made except in accordance with its
terms.
SECTION 1003. Enforcement of Contract. The contract constituted by
the Resolution shall be enforceable by appropriate proceedings taken by the
Bondholder(s) under the law.
SECTION 1004. Other Documentation. James F. Brinkerhoff, Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer of the University, Richard L. Kennedy,
Secretary of the University, C. W. Matthews, Controller of the University,
and Norman G. Herbert, Investment Officer, or any of them are authorized
to perform all acts and deeds and execute all instruments and documents
necessary, expedient, and proper in connection with the issuance, sale, and
delivery of the Bonds and the construction of the Project as contemplated
hereby.
ARTICLE XI
Paying Agent
SECTION 1101.  Designation of Paying Agent. At the time of the sale
of the Bonds the manager of the syndicate or the representative of the financial institution purchasing the Bonds shall designate the Paying Agent, and




52


JULY MEETING, 1981


as such bond registrar and depository of the Bond Fund and Reserve Fund
subject to the approval of the Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer.
The designated Paying Agent shall signify its acceptance of the duties and
obligations imposed by the Resolution by delivering a written acceptance
thereof to the University.
SECTION 1102. Replacement of Paying Agent. The Paying Agent and any
successor Paying Agent may at any time resign by giving 30 days written
notice to the University, and such resignation shall take effect at the end of
such 30 days, or upon the earlier appointment of a successor Paying Agent.
The Paying Agent, and any successor Paying Agent, may be removed at any
time, by an instrument or concurrent instruments in writing delivered to the
University and the Paying Agent and signed by the owners of a majority in
aggregate principal amount of Bonds outstanding. In case the Paying Agent
shall resign or be removed, or be dissolved, or shall be in course of dissolution or liquidation, or otherwise become incapable of acting hereunder,
a successor may be appointed by the owners of a majority of aggregate
principal amount of Bonds outstanding, by an instrument or concurrent instruments in writing signed by such owners, or by their attorneys in fact
duly authorized. Pending and until such action by the Bondholders, a temporary Paying Agent shall be designated by the University as may be
necessary. Every such Paying Agent designated pursuant to the provisions
of this Section shall be a trust company or bank in good standing, within the
State of Michigan or New York, New York, or Chicago, Illinois, having a
reported capital and surplus of not less than Ten Million ($10,000,000)
Dollars if there be such an institution willing, qualified, and able to accept the
trust upon reasonable or customary terms. Every such Paying Agent designated pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall also be approved by
the University.
ARTICLE XII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 1201. Severability. If any one or more sections, clauses, or provisions of the Resolution shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or ineffective for any reason, such determination shall
in no way affect the validity and effectiveness of the remaining sections,
clauses, and provisions of the Resolution.
SECTION 1202. Headings. Any headings shall be solely for convenience
of reference and shall not constitute a part of the Resolution, nor shall they
affect its meaning, construction, or effect.
SECTION 1203. Conflict. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other
proceedings of the University in conflict herewith be and the same are
repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
SECTION 1204. Effective Date. The Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN


By....................................
Its Controller




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1981
The Regents met at 11:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Brown, Dunn,
Nederlander, Power, Roach, Vamer, and Waters. Chancellors
Jenkins and Nelson and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye,
Overberger, Johnson, Acting Vice-President Jacobson, and VicePresident and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regent
Baker was absent.
Professor Ronald Teigen, Chairman of the Committee on the  CESF Report
Economic Status of the Faculty (CESF) indicated that he wished
to restate the Committee's position with respect to the 1981-82
salary program, as presented in April. The Committee strongly
feels that the percentage of increase for the salary program
should correspond to the rate of inflation. Professor Teigen mentioned that the rate of inflation had decreased to 9.7% since last
April, therefore, that was the Committee's recommendation at
this time. The 6% salary program proposed by the administration would produce another significant reduction in the faculty's
real income. Professor Teigen said that the faculty is well aware
of the University's financial problems, but other Universities in
Michigan have announced larger salary programs even though
they are in the same situation. Teacher salaries in the public
school system in Ann Arbor are catching up and in some cases
passing the University's faculty salaries. The University must
place salary determination in the highest priority each year to,
at the very least, prevent continuing erosion of real income
from inflation.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the year-end financial Financial Report
report and displayed some slides showing budget to actual figures
of all funds for the three campuses. He explained charts showing
a ten-year comparison of current funds, general funds, expendable restricted funds, designated funds and auxiliary funds.
The Regents then recessed for lunch.
The meeting reconvened at 1:15 P.M. Regent Baker joined
the meeting.


53




54


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


Audit Report,  President Shapiro asked if there were any questions regarding
the financial information presented earlier and reminded the
Board that there was a request for the approval of the Price
Waterhouse Audit report for 1980-81.
Regent Baker then moved to approve the audit report for
fiscal 1980-81. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Budget, 1981-82  Vice-President Frye, in speaking of the proposed operating
budget for 1981-82, indicated that, although the Legislature
approved an appropriation increase of approximately 12.1% in
March for the Ann Arbor campus, adoption of a budget was
delayed because of the possibility of an executive order recission.
Since there would be no advantage in further delay, a recommendation for approval is presented at this time despite continuing
difficulties and uncertainties.
Vice-President Frye listed those uncertainties as: the capacity
of the State to actually sustain the 12.1% appropriation; the
anticipation of an executive order recission of 4% to 5% on
the 1980-81 budget which would effect the 1981-82 budget
because of the fiscal year differential between the State and the
University; and the possibility of another executive order recission on the 1981-82 budget, perhaps as great as 5%. If this
second cut should occur, it would have the effect of reducing
the State appropriation this year to approximately 1% less than
was actually received last year.
Vice-President Frye reviewed the principle elements of the
budget including the $10.4 million base budget reduction that
became effective on July 1 of this year, and the staff benefits
component that was added to this year's budget, making a total of
$11.6 million in internal reductions that are being rebudgeted
in the 1981-82 budget. Dr. Frye also highlighted the principle
expenditure elements in the proposed budget: approximately
$10.1 million for a 6% salary program and staff benefits of
$1.6 million for a total compensation increase of approximately
7%; $2.1 million (18%) increase for student aid; $2.8 million
for utilities; $3.6 million for academic program development; and
$1.7 million for nonsalary program improvement. The administration is aware of the inadequacy of the salary program with
respect to the rate of inflation, the cumulative slippage of academic and nonacademic salaries, in relation to other job families
in the State and the nation. However, a greater salary program
would cause greater difficulties for the faculty in terms of
accelerated rates of retrenchment and higher workloads. The
administration has and will continue to consider the salary
program a high priority item, and it is always uppermost in their
minds when preparing the budget.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


55


Vice-President Frye indicated that the rising cost of utilities
is steadily consuming a greater proportion of the general fund.
Moreover if federal support for student aid should continue to
decline, the general fund budget would be unable to bear a
greater portion than it does now. Elaborating on academic program development, Dr. Frye explained that its components include the cost of new dean appointments, increments for underfunded costs, such as the Ann Arbor police force contract, the
tuition grant program and special allocations for enrollment
increases in some units, particularly business administration, and
a variety of other essential costs that are incurred by the schools
and colleges. This latter item has been vigorously reviewed and
significantly reduced during the last few months, and now comprises only about 1 /2 % of the general fund budget.
In continuing, Vice-President Frye said that since the budget
is so inadequate in comparison with our needs, it might be appropriate to state what the budget does not do. It does not provide
for an adequate salary program which will adversely affect external market pressures in fields like business, engineering, computer sciences, and pharmacy; it does not provide adequately for
a number of high priority expenses that are seriously underbudgeted, such as research rental space, legal fees, and equipment purchases. The budget makes too little provision for
significant program development, e.g., badly needed growth in
engineering, business administration and other technology areas;
the vitality of the University is in jeopardy because the ability
to appoint young, new faculty is virtually at a standstill; and the
budget does not provide a special fund drawn upon indirect cost
to provide for research incentives and the augmentation of
research activity in the University.
Should the proposed budget be free of additional cutbacks,
further internal adjustment would not be necessary in the coming
year. However, contingency plans have been prepared and would
be immediately implemented if another executive order recission
should become a reality.
In conclusion, Vice-President Frye stated that there has been
an erosion of the University's fiscal resources for several years
as a result of the rising cost of utilities, health care, general
inflation, and a serious decline in the level of State support. In
the near future these problems will be further aggravated by the
decline in the State and national pool of qualified student applicants, increasingly reduced flexibility for internal reallocation,
and a further accumulation of delayed maintenance and other
costs that will become critical. With this in mind, a multiple year
plan of action will be necessary to develop a comprehensive view
of what the total underfunded costs are now and expected to be




56


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


in the future and to reconcile those costs with the maximum level
of available resources. The University will continue to do everything within its power to help itself through these difficulties.
Also, it is imperative that the legislature and the citizens of the
State recognize that this institution is vital to the long-run
economic and intellectual well-being of the State, and it cannot
be preserved unless adequate State support is received.
Regent Baker commented that, even considering all these
difficulties, could the administration continue to maintain their
pledge not to increase tuition at mid-year except under extraordinary circumstances?
Vice-President Frye indicated that, as he stated previously,
short of a financial disaster, the University would adhere to that
pledge.
President Shapiro remarked that as Vice-President Frye indicated, the proposed budget already incorporated the 5%
executive order being considered in Lansing, and it anticipates a
possible second executive order of approximately the same magnitude. However, there is a great deal of uncertainty about the
State budget in the next year including the priority given to
higher education. He said he did not believe it would be appropriate to have a further adjustment in tuition, and he was quite
confident that it would not be necessary. However, it is important for the Board to know that the University is close to the
edge and cannot be pushed much farther. A tuition adjustment
would be the very last resort.
In response to a question that Regent Power had posed
earlier, Vice-President Frye indicated that the larger salary programs proposed by the University's sister institutions appear to
be based upon the assumption that the State appropriation approved in March would be sustained. It was the University's intention to try to minimize a possible very serious shortfall by
being more conservative in the budgeting process at the outset.
Financial Aid  Mr. Harvey Grotrian, Director, Financial Aid Office, was
riteria asked to respond to a question concerning the change in the
eligibility criteria for the Guaranteed Student Loan program. He
said the two positive changes were that the need factor was kept
simple and more liberal in the standard needs test for loans
applied for after October 1, and the parental loan program was
opened up to the parents of graduate students, independent
undergraduate students, and all graduate students. There was
some concern about the rate at which banks would participate
in that program, but it would be an important source of relief
for students. On the negative side, 5% of the loan proceeds are
taken as an origination fee, and for loans made after October 1,
the monthly payment would increase to $50. The students, how



SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


57


ever, would not sustain the loss of a loan for education costs
either this year or next year, as had been anticipated.
Regent Roach moved to approve the 1981-82 General Fund
budget for the Ann Arbor campus. Regent Brown seconded the
motion.
With respect to the continuing erosion of the University's
resources, and even worse, the acceleration of it, Regent Power
delivered the following statement concerning an article in the
Detroit Free Press dated September 17, 1981:
Today's Detroit Free Press carried a story by David Kushma discussing Governor Milliken's recent executive order which would have
reduced state aid to higher education and community colleges by 4.5%
from current budget levels. In The University of Michigan's case, this
latest cut would have amounted to $6.2 million.
Coming as it does as yet another slash for higher education and
during the middle of a fiscal year, after hiring patterns and other operating
plans are set, this cut will have a horrible impact. The State of Michigan
has declined dramatically in state support for higher education when
compared with other states. In the ranking of 50 states' appropriations
to higher education (appropriations per $1,000 of personal income), the
State of Michigan has fallen from 19th in 1966-67 to 38th in 1980-81.
The Free Press also quotes Mr. Gerald Miller, the state budget
director, as insisting that "aid to educational institutions and local and
county governments were the only areas in which substantial cuts could
be made so late in the fiscal year."
The same Mr. Miller, together with the Governor himself, has said
time and time again that if Michigan is to diversify its economy and
develop a high technology growth sector, the talent and experience at
the University is the state's most priceless asset.
That Mr. Miller should now justify such a massive slash to an
already beleaguered University on the grounds that it's too late in the fiscal
year to cut anywhere else reveals either a practice of decision making by
expedient whimsy or a simple failure to recognize that while it may take
50 years or more to build a great University, you can easily kill it in five.
The proposed cuts are at the wrong time (i.e., now), in the wrong
place (i.e., higher education), and cannot help but be terribly damaging
to the State of Michigan's attempt to rebuild and diversify its economy.
President Shapiro thanked Regent Power for her statement
and then called for the vote on Regent Roach's motion to approve the 1981-82 general fund budget for the Ann Arbor
campus, and it was unanimously adopted.
Chancellor Nelson reviewed the budgetary situation and
strategy for the Flint campus. He indicated that the 1981-82
budget was prepared on the assumption of $1.2 million in new
revenues. Nearly half of this would be devoted to a salary program of 6%. The remaining funds would be allocated for debt
service to complete the Physical Education/Recreation building,
the substantial rise in utility costs, academic program development, student aid and certain other costs. Chancellor Nelson
said the budget would not provide adequately for equipment,
books, supplies, and maintenance. Academic program develop

Budget, 1981-82
UM-Flint




58


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


Budget, 1981-82
UM-Dearborn


ment, the major priority for the Flint campus, was inadequately
funded in this budget. Contingency plans have been developed
to assume further cuts, if that should be necessary.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the 1981-82 general fund
budget for UM-Flint, as recommended. Regent Nederlander
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Chancellor Jenkins commented that UM-Dearborn followed a similar pattern as the other campuses, but their resources
are considerably less. The base budget reduction, and the anticipated executive order recission reduces the available funds
considerably. At the present time, plans are underway to prepare
for a second cut in State funding. This creates a situation which
would be unique in the University's history-the Dearborn campus would be unable to recommend a salary program equal to
that of Ann Arbor and Flint. A 3% salary program, which is
totally inadequate, is all the budget will allow this year. By exercising prudent measures during the year by reducing the base
budget another $500,000, there may be additional funds in the
course of the year which could be made available to augment
the salary program.
President Shapiro remarked that a special situation existed
on the Dearborn campus which had been accumulating for quite
some time. He said that, in his judgment, the academic program
had expanded beyond the financial base provided by the State
and student fee income. The shortfall in State support and the
capital outlay for new facilities had compounded the problem
for the Dearborn campus. The State appears to be unwilling to
adequately provide for the quality programs that are needed at
UM-Dearborn.
Regent Nederlander moved to approve the 1981-82 general
fund budget for UM-Dearborn, as recommended. Regent
Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.


I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of June 18 and 19, 1981 and
July 16 and 17, 1981 were approved.
II. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on investment transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnellabor relations and the Replacement Hospital Project. He also
filed the annual report on the operations of the University Disability Plan.
Vice-President Overberger filed a monthly report on grants
and contracts for research for May, June, and July.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


59


Acting Vice-President Jacobson filed his monthly report on
the Office of University Relations and Development.
III. GIFTS AND      GRANTS                                                   Gifts
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from the following
sources. They were received with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions:
Adria Laboratories, Inc., Columbus, Ohio; for the Adria
Laboratories Biochemical fund........................................$  5,898.50
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; for the Alcoa
Foundation Materials and Metallurgical Engineering fund      7,500.00
Allied Chemical Foundation, Morristown, New Jersey; for the
following funds:
Allied Chemical Foundation Grant Award in Public
H ealth   fund.................................................................   5,000.00
Business Administration Graduate Fellowships and
Scholarship   fund........................................................  4,000.00
Chemical Engineering Special fund..................................  2,000.00
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for the
American Cancer Society, Inc. funds.............................  130,148.00
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for the Arthritis Foundation  funds........................................................................  22,583.34
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn; for the
Michigan Chapter Arthritis Foundation funds................  8,904.98
Baldwin Foundation, Grand Rapids; for the Baldwin Fellowship  in  A stronom y  fund......................................................  10,000.00
Mrs. Adele Balosin, Ann Arbor; for the Theodore G. Balosin
Award  in  Architecture  fund....................................  10,000.00
Bechtel Foundation, San Francisco, California; for the following funds:
College of Engineering Discretionary fund......................  4,000.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts fund............  50.00
Minority and Female Scholarships in Engineering fund         1,600.00
Minority Engineering Program fund..................................  2,000.00
Bell Laboratories, Holmdel, New Jersey; for the Communication   Sciences  Special  fund..................................................  31,234.00
Boehringer Ingelheim, Limited, Ridgefield, Connecticut; for
the Internal Medicine-Pulmonary Diseases Research fund       7,500.00
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North
Carolina; for the Burroughs Wellcome-Ensminger fund         40,000.00
Bush Foundation, Saint Paul, Minnesota; for the Bush Found ation   fun ds........................................................................  12 5,64 5.00
Helen E. Campbell Estate; for the School of Library Science
fu n d......................................................................................  1 8,8 0 0.0 0
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., San Francisco, California; for the following funds:
Business  School  fund........................................................  200.00
Chemical Engineering Special fund....................................  5,000.00
College  of  Engineering  fund..............................................  440.00
V ital  M argin   fund.............................................................  150.00
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield; for
the Children's Leukemia Foundation funds......................  10,829.00
Edna McConnell Clark Foundation, New York, New York;
for the Edna McConnell Clark-Higashi fund................   8,890.00
Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York; for the Commonwealth   Fund-Brown   fund............................................  75,000.)0




60                SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981
Coopers & Lybrand Foundation, New York, New York; for
the following funds:
Business Administration Accounting Faculty Special fund       4,000.00
Business School Associates Program fund........................  5,000.00
Detroit Association-U of M Women, Livonia; for the following funds:
Alumnae Council Scholarship fund..................................  1,850.00
Gagnon-Rosenthal Memorial Scholarship fund................   9,000.00
Mildred M. Doan Revocable Trust, Detroit; for Athletic
Scholarships  fund...............................................................  15,000.00
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor; for the Earhart Foundation
fu n d s....................................................................................   6,3 5 5.0 0
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York; for the following funds:
College of Engineering Industrial Support Program fund        1,000.00
Minority and Female Scholarships in Engineering fund          1,000.00
Minority Engineering Program fund................................  3,000.00
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York; for the
following funds:
Exxon Education Foundation-Goodman fund..................   19,000.00
Geology Department Special fund....................................  600.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts fund............   75.00
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Scholarship
and Discretionary fund..............................................  450.00
Recreational Sports  Gift fund........................................   150.00
Ida M. Faigle Charitable Foundation, Troy; for the Francis
E.  Payne  Fellowship  fund..................................................  10,000.00
Clinton B. Ford, Wilton, Connecticut; for the Clinton B.
Ford  A stronom y  fund.................................................  5,000.00
Ford Foundation, New York, New York; for the following
Ford  Foundation   funds...............................................  469,569.37
Ford Motor Company, Ypsilanti; for the College of Engineering Industrial Support Program fund................................ 36,022.00
Galen's Medical Society, Ann Arbor; for the following funds:
Adolescent Day Treatment Program fund........................  275.00
Children's Psychiatric Hospital Recreation fund..............  1,000.00
Mott Hospital Galens Workshop fund..............................  14,816.50
Pediatrics Research and Teaching-Leukemia Research
fund..............................................................................   300.00
Gannett Newspaper Foundation, Rochester, New York; for
the Friends of WFUM     Television fund............................  5,000.00
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit; for the Business
School Associates Program    fund......................................  5,000.00
Elizabeth A. Gow Estate; for the John L. and Elizabeth A.
Gow Fund in Engineering................................................ 124,931.81
Herrick Foundation, Detroit; for the Herrick Foundation
funds....................................................................................   15,000.00
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California; for the Sampling Program for Foreign Statisticians
fund...................................................................................  15,000.00
Ruth C. Hurt Estate; for the Raymond C. Hurt Scholarship
in  Civil  Engineering  fund..................................................  59,328.60
International Business Machines Corporation, Tarrytown,
New York; for the following funds:
IBM Computer and Information Systems Program-Business Administration fund............................................  50,000.00
IBM Corporation Fellowship in Electrical and Computer
Engineering fund..................................................  11,000.00
Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, Washington, D.C.; for
the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety funds..........  45,665.00




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


61


J. W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation, Sierra Madre, California; for the  Unrestricted  fund........................................  5,000.00
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek; for the W. K.
K ellogg  Foundation  funds.................................................  517,997.00
Kerr Manufacturing Company, Romulus; for the Kerr Manufacturing Oral Histology-Avery fund................................  9,300.00
Key Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Miami, Florida; for the Key
Pharm  aceuticals-Pitt fund..................................................  10,000.00
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh; for the following
funds:
Forney W. Clement Memorial fund...............................  5,879.58
C. S. Mott Hospital Equipment fund..............................  5,879.58
Koppers Company Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; for
the following funds:
Minority and Female Scholarships in Engineering fund        6,000.00
V ital  M argin   fund..............................................................  200.00
Kroc Foundation, Santa Ynez, California; for the Kroc
Foundation-Castor   fund....................................................   6,396.00
Lilly Endowment, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana; for the Lilly
Endow  m ent-Arce  fund......................................................  28,596.00
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms;
for the Manoogian Foundation-History of Art fund........   9,000.00
McGregor Fund, Detroit; for the Medical Center Library fund     20,000.00
Agnes C. McKay Estate; for the Frank D. and Agnes C.
M cKay  M edical Research  fund..........................................  44,231.01
Frank D. McKay Estate; for the Frank D. and Agnes C.
M cKay  M edical  Research  fund........................................  6,386.51
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York; for
the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation funds........................ 428,403.00
Michigan Eye-Bank, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Eye-Bank
fu n d......................................................................................  14,6 9 1.0 0
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint; for the C. S. Mott
Foundation-Collet  fund.....................................................  23,394.00
National Foundation, White Plains, New York; for the March
of  D im es-Jourdian   fund....................................................  11,500.00
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation, Toledo, Ohio; for the
Physical Stress  Research  fund............................................  15,000.00
Pharmacia, Inc., Piscataway, New Jersey; for the Simpson
M emorial Institute  Special fund........................................  5,000.00
Research Corporation, New York, New York; for the Research   Corporation  funds..................................................  33,950.00
Research Fund of the American Otological Society, Inc.,
Bronx, New York; for the following American Otological
Society   funds......................................................................  5,398.50
Dr. Margaret R. Reynolds Estate; for the Margaret R.
Reynolds Medical Scholarship fund................................. 81,766.62
Myrtle H. Rhodes, Santa Monica, California; for the Myrtle
H. Rhodes Fund, to participate in the University of
Michigan Donor Pooled Income fund..............................  5,000.00
Rockefeller Brothers Fund, Inc., New York, New York; for
the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, Inc. funds........................ 85,000.00
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York; for the following Rockefeller Foundation funds.............................. 55,260.00
Damon Runyon-Walter Winchell Cancer Fund, Inc., New
York, New York; for the Damon Runyon-Walter
Winchell Cancer funds...................................................... 27,125.00
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York; for the
Russell Sage Foundation-1980 Study of Convention Deleg ates   fu n d............................................................................  6 6,7 7 0.0 0




62                SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981
Helen Huff Shell, LaJolla, California; for the Center for Continuing Education of Women-Student Financial Aid fund       10,000.00
Mabel E. Sherk, Bloomfield Hills; for the President's fund        5,000.00
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York; for the
Alfred  P. Sloan  Foundation  funds......................................  90,000.00
Standard Oil Company, Clveland, Ohio; for the following
funds:
Class  of  1938  Engineers  fund............................................  50.00
Robert G. Rodkey Fellowships and Scholarships fund....      5,000.00
V ital  M argin   fund............................................................   100.00
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust, Flint; for the Esther C.
Stone  Charitable  Trust  fund..............................................  19,084.81
University of Michigan Alumni Association of Taiwan, for the
East Asian Challenge Grant Gifts fund............................ 110,000.00
Tech-S, Inc., Livonia; for the Tech-S Electrical and Computer
Engineering-Computer Architecture fund.......................  12,000.00
Texas Instruments, Inc., Dallas, Texas; for the Solid State Industrial  Affiliates  Program   fund.....................................  10,000.00
Tinker Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for the Tinker
Foundation-Barnes   fund....................................................  25,000.00
Twin Disc, Inc., Racine, Wisconsin; for the Unrestricted fund     5,000.00
Weyerhaeuser Company Foundation, Tacoma, Washington;
for the George Staebler Forestry Fellowship fund............ 12,000.00
Whiting Foundation, Flint; for the following funds:
Eye Center Ophthalmology Consolidation fund................  25,000.00
H. Marvin Pollard Medical Research fund...................... 25,000.00
The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
Securities
Anonymous Donor. Jewell Companies, Inc.; Potlatch Corporation; Boise Cascade Corporation; and Washington
National Corporation, common stocks; for the George
G. Cameron Professorship in Ancient Near Eastern
Civilization and Languages fund................................ 257,952.50
Mrs. F. Bruce Fralick, Pinckney. National Ann Arbor Corporation, common stock; for the Eye Center Ophthalm ology  Consolidation  fund..............................................  50,046.75
F. Bruce Fralick, Pinckney. National Ann Arbor Corporation,
common stock; for the Eye Center Ophthalmology Consolidation   fund...............................................................   50,046.75
G. Lawton Johnson, Lyme, New Hampshire. Surveyor Fund,
Inc. and Chemical Fund, Inc., common stocks; for the
Class of 1931 Engineering Scholarship fund..................  54,650.63
Mr. and Mrs. F. Roland Sargent, Coral Gables, Florida.
Various corporate and utility preferred and common
stocks; divided as follows:
A thletic  Scholarships  fund...............................................  2,387.12
Eye Center Ophthalmology Consolidation fund............     5,000.00
L aw   School  fund................................................................  5,000.00
Plastic  Surgery  Research  fund.........................................  20,000.00
F. Roland Sargent Cardiology Research fund..................  10,000.00
Thoracic Surgery Discretionary fund................................  10,000.00
Prof. and Mrs. Melville B. Stout, Ann Arbor. Philip Morris,
Inc., common stock; divided as follows:
University General Student Loan fund............................  10,175.00
V ital  M argin   fund..............................................................  100.00
Thomas J. Watson, Jr., Armonk, New York. International
Business Machines Corporation, common stock; for the
President Gerald R. Ford Library fund............................  9,759.06




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


63


Stanley Zax, Encino, California. American Financial Corporation, common stock; for the Law School fund................  5,085.00
Real Estate: Appraisals Obtained
Daniel G. and Alberta McGovern, Dearborn Heights. Lot
number 1005 of Lakewood Shores, Number 11, Oscoda
Township, Iosco County, Michigan; for The University
of Michigan-Dearborn Campus.....................................  3,200.00
R.I.S., Inc., Brighton. Property as follows, for the R.I.S.,
Incorporated-Michigan Diabetes Research and Training
Center fund:
Note  on  a  Business.................................................   5,286.50
Lot 15, Section 27, Riviera Shores, Holly Township,
Oakland  County, Michigan........................................  5,619.40
Property forming The Hawaiian Gardens Motel, Restaurant and Golf Course, approximately 22 acres,
Holly Township, Oakland County, Michigan........ 28,736.27
Tract of land in the town of Manchester, County of
Ontario, State of New York, known as parcel # 1A,
formerly  Star  Paper  Company..................................  19,812.58
T5N, R7E, Section 22, Quick Road Farms, Holly, Michigan................................................................................   8,694.55
Lots 23, 24 and 31 of Ni Dell Subdivision #2, Holly
Township, Oakland County; and................................ 12,024.04
Part of the West 1/~ of the West 1/2 of the Southeast 1/4
of Section 22, Holly Township, Oakland County,
M ichigan......................................................................  9,331.22
The following nonmonetary, noncash gifts were received:
Fredrica K. Bartz, Flint. Seven books; for The University of
Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Carl Berger, Ann Arbor. A Texas Instruments TI58 programmable calculator and a PC100A printer; for the School
of Education
Mr. and Mrs. A. William Bishop, Flint. Six scrapbooks containing pictures, letters, telegrams, and clippings pertaining to the Bishop family; for the Archives Collection of
The University of Michigan-Flint Campus, History
Department
R. S. W. Bobbette, Islington, Ontario, Canada. Eleven unmounted plant specimens; for The University of Michigan Herbarium
Mr. and Mrs. William A. Chilman, Farmington Hills. 1,490
specimens of Middle Devonian Ostracods of the Great
Lakes Region; for the Museum of Paleontology
Frank O. Copley, Rogers City. Three books; for the Department of Classical Studies
Norma Diamond, Ann Arbor. Twelve issues of the Journal
of Natural History; for the Mischa Titiev Library of
Anthropology
Howard Eldridge, Flint. 191 books; for The University of
Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Garden Milieu, Ann Arbor. 1,000 six-inch clay pots; for the
Botanical Gardens
Mrs. Richard Emil Klausli, Lansing. 136 music books representing Gregorian, Roman Catholic, Russian, Greek
Orthodox, and Byzantine publications; for The University
of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Robert M. Kren, Flushing. Four books; for The University
of Michigan-Flint Campus Library




64


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


Mr. and Mrs. George G. Lewis, Jr., Southfield. A 1975
Plymouth Grand Fury Station Wagon; for the Alumni
Association's Camp Michigania
Frank Livingston, Ann Arbor. Yearly subscriptions for The
American Journal of Physical Anthropology, and Current Anthropology; for the Mischa Titiev Library of
Anthropology
Patrick Peters, Dearborn. 46 books; for The University of
Michigan-Flint Campus Library
The Potters Guild, Ann Arbor. Four pieces of calligraphy by
Shoji Hamada, framed, ink on paper; for the Museum
of Art
Eric Ross, London, England. Two books: The Evolution of
Human Adaptations, and Sociocultural Theory in Anthropology; for the Mischa Titiev Library of Anthropology
Murray A. Rudner, Flint. Four books; for The University of
Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Frances Seevers, Ann Arbor. Twenty-six containers for Bonsai
plants; for the Botanical Gardens
Gary Witherspoon, Ignacio, Colorado. Approximately 94 pieces
of printed materials; for the Mischa Titiev Library of
Anthropology
Aram A. Yengoyan, Ann Arbor. A book, entitled: The
Imagination of Reality, by A. L. Becker and Aram A.
Yengoyan; for the Mischa Titiev Library of Anthropology
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for
the American Cancer Society, Inc. funds........................$ 36,860.00
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas; for the American
H eart  Association   funds...................................................  11,522.50
Amsted Industries Foundation, Chicago, Illinois; for the following funds:
Business School Associates Program fund........................  2,000.00
College of Engineering Discretionary fund......................  3,000.00
Ann Arbor University of Michigan Club, Ann Arbor; for
Athletic  Scholarships  fund................................................  5,000.00
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for the Arthritis Foundation-B ole  fund..................................................................  6,250.00
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn; for the
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter funds................  8,905.00
Alfredo Bou Estate; for the following funds:
Medical Center Library fund............................................  9,400.00
M edical  School  fund..........................................................  600.00
Chevron Research Company, Richmond, California; for the
following funds:
Chemical Engineering Special fund.................................  5,000.00
Chevron Research Company-Hilliard fund......................  7,500.00
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., San Francisco, California; for the Automotive Transportation  Center fund....................................  10,000.00
Consumers Power Company, Jackson; for Engineering Building   G ifts  fund......................................................................   5,000.00
Ralph S. and Bertha G. Euler Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; for the Ralph S. and Bertha G. Euler Student
A id   fund..............................................................................  17,376.95
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York; for the
following funds:
Business  School  fund..........................................................  75.00
Chemistry Department fund..............................................  150.00
College  of  Engineering  fund.............................................  375.00




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


65


Exxon Education Foundation Grant in Chemical Engineering  fund................................................................   8,000.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts fund............    225.00
Macromolecular Research Center fund............................  3,000.00
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Scholarship
and   D iscretionary   fund..............................................  5,000.00
V ital  M argin   fund..............................................................   150.00
Firestone Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio; for the
Physical Stress  Research  fund............................................  45,000.00
Gornick Fund, Bloomfield Hills; for the President's fund........    6,000.00
Hoffmann-LaRoche, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey; for the following funds:
Hoffmann-LaRoche-Smith fund........................................ 20,000.00
College of Pharmacy Special fund....................................  25.00
International Business Machines Corporation, Armonk, New
York; for the following funds:
B usiness  School  fund..........................................................  3,460.00
Chemical Engineering Special fund..................................  100.00
Communication Sciences Special fund............................   70.00
School  of  Education    fund................................................  20.00
Electrical and Computer Engineering Special fund........         400.00
College  of  Engineering  fund............................................   720.00
Industrial Engineering  Gift fund........................................   100.00
L aw   School  fund................................................................   2,150.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts fund............  1,138.26
Mechanical Engineering Special fund..............................  140.00
School  of  N ursing   fund......................................................   20.00
Radrick Farms Golf Course fund......................................  1,000.00
University of Michigan-Flint Campus fund....................     200.00
V ital  M argin   fund..............................................................  4,770.00
W U O M    fund......................................................................   152.00
Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor; for the
Kidney Foundation of Michigan funds............................  8,800.00
Kroc Foundation, Santa Ynez, California; for the Kroc Found ation   fu nds........................................................................  2 5,0 89.00
Lilly Endowment, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana; for the Lilly
Endowment Fellowship in Pharmacy..............................  52,950.00
Lockheed Leadership Fund, Burbank, California; for the
Aeronautical Engineering Special fund..........................  7,500.00
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for the
Henry Luce Foundation-Feuerwerker fund....................    25,000.00
McGraw Foundation, Elgin, Illinois; for the Business Adm inistration  Special  fund....................................................  7,000.00
Medical Data Systems, Ann Arbor; for the Medical Data
System s-P itt  fund................................................................   5,310.00
Michigan Heart Association, Southfield; for the Michigan
H eart  A ssociation   funds....................................................  57,416.00
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United
States, Inc.; for the following funds:
Highway Safety Research Institute fund.......................... 145,375.00
HSRI-Mathematical Models of Motor Vehicle Systems
fu n d...........................................................................   2 5,0 0 0.0 0
National Fund for Medical Education, Hartford, Connecticut;
for the National Fund for Medical Education-Pennington
fu n d......................................................................................   6,19 0.0 0
National Geno Sciences, Inc., Southfield; for the Supplemental
Support in Molecular Biology fund................................  7,500.00
Pfizer, Inc., Groton, Connecticut; for the Simpson Memorial
Institute  Special  fund........................................................  6,000.00




66


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


Premex Company, Limited, Hong Kong; for the following
funds:
Reed 0. Dingman Plastic Surgery Library fund..........  2,000.00
M edical  School  fund..........................................................  1,000.00
Plastic  Surgery  Education  fund........................................  2,000.00
Plastic  Surgery  Research  fund............................................  5,000.00
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio; for the Procter
and Gamble Chemical Engineering fund.......................... 11,290.00
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence E. Quinn, Birmingham; for the
P resident's   fund..................................................................   6,405.00
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarship Trust, Springfield,
Massachusetts; for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial
Scholarship   funds................................................................  11,612.07
Raymond Schoder Charitable Foundation, Battle Creek; for
the Raymond Schoder Charitable Foundation-Cleft
P alate   C linic   fund..............................................................  5,500.00
Robert F. Schwarz Estate; for the Law School fund............  7,504.15
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York; for the
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation-Morgan fund...................... 130,000.00
Onalee Smith Estate; for the Onalee Smith-Flint Campus fund  15,000.00
E. R. Squibb & Sons, Inc., East Brunswick, New Jersey; for
the  Hypertension  Research  fund........................................  14,000.00
Alice A. Stoddard Trust; for the Alice A. Stoddard Scholarsh ip   fu n d............................................................................   5,14 9.1 8
Texaco Philanthropic Foundation, Inc., White Plains, New
York; for the Business Administration-Texaco fund........  5,000.00
Weyerhaeuser Company Foundation, Tacoma, Washington;
for the George Staebler Forestry Fellowship fund............ 12,000.00
Youth Foundation of America, Petoskey; for the Youth Foundation  of  A m erica  funds....................................................  27,500.00
Margaret K. Zimmerman Estate; for the Margaret K. Zimmerm an   fu n d............................................................................  13 2,4 15.4 0
Personnel IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
Actions
The following personnel actions were approved by the
Regents:
Appointments        NEW   APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Ton A. J. Beekman, Doctorate in Social Sciences, Netherlands Visiting
Professor, in the School of Education, for the academic year
Morton B. Brown, Ph.D., Professor of Biostatistics, without tenure, for
the academic year, September 1, 1981
Lamberto Cesari, Professor Emeritus, to complete research for one
month, June 1, 1981
Frances R. Cousens, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Department of Sociology, UM-Dearborn, September 1, 1981 to April 30,
1982
Frances R. Cousens, Professor Emeritus, appointed Affirmative Action
Coordinator, UM-Dearborn, September 8, 1981 to September 7,
1982
Elizabeth C. Crosby, Professor Emeritus, appointed as a consultant to
the Section of Neurosurgery, on a half-time basis
Donald J. Deckard, Ph.D., appointed Associate Professor of Mathematics,
UM-Dearborn, without tenure, for one year beginning September 1,
1981




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


67


James B. Griffin, Professor Emeritus, appointed as senior research scientist
in the Museum of Anthropology, September 1, 1981 to June 30,
1982
Kenneth E. Jochim, Professor Emeritus, appointed as a consultant to the
Section of Thoracic Surgery, July 1, 1981
Donald R. Kinder, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Political Science and
Associate Research Scientist in the Center for Political Studies
(ISR), with tenure, September 1, 1981
Piotr A. Michalowski, Ph.D., appointed Associate Professor of Near
Eastern Studies, with tenure, and holder of the George G. Cameron
Professorship in Ancient Near Eastern Civilization and Languages,
September 1, 1981
Horace M. Miner, Professor Emeritus of Sociology and Anthropology,
appointed Curator in the Museum of Anthropology, July 1, 1981
through June 30, 1982
David Dunlop Newsom, M.S., appointed Howard R. Marsh Visiting
Professor of Journalism, October 29 to November 24, 1981
F. J. Papp, Ph.D., appointed Associate Professor of Mathematics, UMDearborn, without tenure, for one year beginning September 1, 1981
Tom D. Rowe, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College
of Pharmacy, Fall Term, 1981
Raymond W. Ruddon, Jr., M.D., Ph.D., appointed Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, and Chairman of the Department of Pharmacology, for twelve months, October 1, 1981
Murray Seeger, appointed Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor of
Journalism, from September 28 to October 23, 1981
Gerda Seligson, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach a Freshman
Seminar, Fall Term, 1981
David W. Thomas, Ph.D., appointed Associate Professor of Microbiology, with tenure, November 1, 1981
Martinus J. Veltman, appointed Professor of Physics, with tenure, July 1,
1981
Lung-Chiang Wu, Ph.D., appointed Associate Professor of Computer
Science, UM-Dearborn, without tenure, September 1, 1981 to
May 31, 1984
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL                    Promotions, etc.
STAFF AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Robin Barlow, Professor of Economics, reappointed Director of the
Center for Research on Economic Development, September 1, 1981
to August 31, 1984
Mary E. Cox, Associate Professor of Physics, appointed Acting Dean of
the College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, August 18, 1981
Paul B. Crapo, Assistant Professor to Associate Professor in French,
UM-Dearborn, with tenure, September 1, 1981
Hani I. Fakhouri, Associate Professor of Sociology/Anthropology and
Urban Studies, also appointed Chairperson of the Sociology/Anthropology Department, UM-Flint, July 1, 1981 to June 30, 1982
Philip D. Gingerich, Associate Professor of Geological Sciences and
Associate Curator in the Museum of Paleontology, also appointed
Director of the Museum of Paleontology, September 1, 1981 through
June 30, 1984
Yeheskel Hasenfeld, Professor of Social Work, appointed Associate Dean,
School of Social Work, September 1, 1981, to August 31, 1984
James S. House, Associate Professor of Sociology, without tenure, retroactive to September 1, 1978, and appointed Associate Chairman
of the Department of Sociology, July 1, 1981 to June 30, 1984




68


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


Ejner Jensen, Professor of English, appointed Acting Chairman of the
Department of English, July 1, 1981 to December 31, 1981
Robert B. Kozma, Assistant Research Scientist of the Center for Research
on Learning and Teaching, and Associate Professor, School of Education, also appointed Assistant Dean, School of Education, July 1,
1981 to June 30, 1982
John R. Knott, Professor of English, appointed Chairman of the Department of English, July 1, 1981 to June 30, 1984
Myron Levine, Professor of Human Genetics, appointed Acting Chairman,
Department of Human Genetics, July 1, 1981
Robert E. Little, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, appointed Acting
Chairman for the Department of Mechanical Engineering, UMDearborn, September 1, 1981 to December 31, 1981
Glenn C. Loury, from Associate Professor to Professor of Economics,
with tenure, September 1, 1980
William M. Marsh, Associate Professor of Physical Geography, appointed
Chairperson of the Department of Resource and Community Science,
UM-Flint, July 1, 1981 to June 30, 1984
William Martel, M.D., Professor of Radiology, appointed Acting Chairman, Department of Radiology, July 17, 1981
William E. Porter, Professor of Communication, appointed Acting Chairman of the Department of Communication, September 1, 1981 to
May 31, 1982
Kenneth H. Shapiro, Associate Professor of Resource Economics, School
of Natural Resources, and Associate Research Scientist, Center for
Research on Economic Development, also appointed Acting Director
of the Center for Research on Economic Development, academic
year 1981-82
w. H. Hobbs     The Regents approved the establishment of a Named College
sta Professrship fessorship, The William   Herbert Hobbs Professorship in
G. Kish  Geography, and approved the appointment of Professor George
Appointed Kish to that professorship.
Leaves of    The Regents approved the six requests for a second year
Absence leave of absence, without salary, for Elliot Berg, Professor of
Economics, Barbara J. Fields, Assistant Professor of History,
Milton   Heumann, Associate     Professor of Political Science;
Mitchell B. Luskin, Assistant Professor of Mathematics; L. Ridgeway Scott, Associate Professor of Mathematics; Marilyn Shatz,
Associate Professor of Psychology, and two extensions of leaves
of absence, without salary, for Judith Reitman, Associate Professor of Psychology, and Joan P. Bowker, Assistant Professor
of Sociology, UM-Dearborn.
committee     The following committee appointments were approved:
Appointments
Museum of Art, Executive Committee
Professor Clifton Olds, for a two-year term, July 1, 1981 to June 30,
1983, vice Professor Joel Isaacson, term expired
Professor Mignonette Cheng, for a two-year term, July 1, 1981 to
June 30, 1983, vice Professor Gerome Kamrowski, term expired
University Committee on Broadcasting
Professor Zelma H. Weisfeld, for a three-year term, July 1, 1981 to
June 30, 1984, vice Professor Ruth D. Clark, term expired
Professor Allen S. Whiting, for a three-year term, July 1, 1981 to June 30,
1984, vice Professor Peter M. Bauland, term expired




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


69


University of Michigan Press, Executive Committee
Professor Howard Crum, for a three-year term, September 1, 1981 to
August 31, 1984, vice Professor Richard Bailey, term expired
Professor Eva Mueller, for a three-year term, September 1, 1981 to
August 31, 1984, vice Professor David Lewis, term expired
Professor John Pedley, for a three-year term, September 1, 1981 to
August 31, 1984, vice Professor Richard Dougherty, term expired
Professor James Gindin, for a two-year term, September 1, 1981 to
August 31, 1983, to complete term of Professor Peter O. Steiner,
resigned from the committee
College of Architecture and Urban Planning, Executive Committee
Professor Henry S. Kowalewski, for the 1981-82 academic year, vice
Professor Joseph J. Wehrer, on leave
Lawyers Club, Board of Governors
Associate Dean Edward H. Cooper, for a two-year term, July 1, 1981 to
June 30, 1983, vice Professor James J. White, term expired
Mr. Frank W. Jackson, to succeed himself, for a two-year term, July 1,
1981 to June 30, 1983
Mr. Samuel Krugliak, to succeed himself, for a two-year term, July 1,
1981 to June 30, 1983
Ms. Ellen S. Carmody, for a two-year term, July 1, 1981 to June 30,
1983, vice Gary Robb, term expired
Mr. Rick D. Halvorsen, for a one-year term, July 1, 1981 to June 30,
1982, vice Portia Moore, resigned from the committee
School of Management, Executive Committee, UM-Flint
Professor John D. Marquardt, for a two-year term, September 1, 1981
to August 31, 1983, vice Professor Clark E. Chastain, term expired
Professor James H. Wolter, for a two-year term, September 1, 1981 to
August 31, 1983, vice Professor Robert H. Cojeen, term expired
Citizens Advisory Committee, UM-Flint
Mr. Melvyn S. Brannon, for a second four-year term, effective September 19, 1981
Mr. David Laro, for a four-year term, effective September 19, 1981
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS                                               Personnel
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                      Appointments
Effective on dates indicated
Assistant Professor
T. Alexander Aleinikoff, Ph.D., Law, September 1, 1981
Judith C. Anderson, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1981
Thomas Annesley, Ph.D., Clinical Chemistry, Medical School, August 1,
1981
Charles C. Barr, M.D., Ophthalmology, July 1, 1981
Akeel Bilgrami, Ph.D., Philosophy, September 1, 1981
David M. Bloome, Ph.D., Education, September 1, 1981
Andrew J. Buda, F.R.C.P.(C), Internal Medicine, July 1, 1981
Christin Carter-Su, Ph.D., Physiology, Medical School, July 1, 1981
Charles N. Ellis, M.D., Dermatology, July 1, 1981
Roger G. Faix, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1981
Michael J. Flynn, M.S., Radiology, Medical School, July 13, 1981
Jerry W. Froelich, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1981
Patrick G. Gardner, Ph.D., Music, September 1, 1981




70


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


Charles B. Hantler, M.D., Anesthesiology, Medical School, July 1, 1981
Roger F. Haskett, Diploma, Psychiatry, July 1, 1981
John C. Hilliard, B.S., Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
September 1, 1981
Pamela R. Johns, M.S., Anatomy, Medical School, September 1, 1981
Richardo V. Lloyd, M.D., Pathology, July 1, 1981
Diane C. Longo, R.N., M.N., Nursing, September 1, 1981
William F. Maloney, Ph.D., Civil Engineering, September 1, 1981
Charles Meyer, Ph.D., Radiology, Medical School, August 1, 1981
Jeannette G. Mosey, Ph.D., Library Science, September 1, 1981
William F. Rayburn, M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1981
Carl E. Schneider, J.D., Law, September 1, 1981
Brahm Shapiro, M.Sc., Internal Medicine, August 1, 1981
Jeanne A. Snyder, B.S., Art, September 1, 1981
Richard S. Stark, M.D., Anesthesiology, Medical School, July 1, 1981
Kathryn E. Stecke, Ph.D., Business Administration, September 1, 1981
Marilyn Svejda, M.S., Nursing, September 1, 1981
Roger C. Wiggins, M.B.B. Chiv, Internal Medicine, August 1, 1981
Eileen J. Wright, M.S.N., Nursing, September 1, 1981
Instructor
Sami R. Achem-Karam, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1981
Alice F. Andrews, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1,
1981
Grant J. Anhalt, M.D., Dermatology, July 15, 1981
John O. DeLancey, M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1981
Peter D. Donofrio, M.D., Neurology, July 1, 1981
Stuart J. Fealk, M.D., Anesthesiology, Medical School, July 1, 1981
Isaac R. Francis, M.B., B.S., Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 1981
Thomas L. Greene, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1981
Linda J. Hall, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1981
Ronald Harris, M.D., Anesthesiology, Medical School, July 1, 1981
Peter G. Hildenbrand, M.D., Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 1981
Barbara M. Hill, M.S.N., Nursing, June 1, 1981
Syed Z. H. Jafri, M.B.B.S., Radiology, July 1, 1981
Raymond S. Kandt, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and
Neurology, July 1, 1981
Irene Kazmers, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1981
John L. Kemink, M.D., Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1981
Philip C. Kirlin, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1981
Thomas C. Knauss, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1981
Carol E. Lee, M.D., Anesthesiology, Medical School, July 13, 1981
Mohammed Mushtaque, M.B.B.S., Anesthesiology, Medical School,
July 1, 1981
Owen Z. Perlman, M.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical
School, July 1, 1981
Phillip C. Potter, M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1981
Jeffrey L. Sams, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1981
W. Anthony Sauder, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1981
Paul Shapiro, M.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical
School, July 1, 1981
Bernard J. Silver, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1981
Gilbert Snider, M.D., Neurology, July 1, 1981
Aruna Vade, M.B.B.S., Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 1981
Joanne Wibler, M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1981
Lecturer
Philip F. Bartholomew, M.A., Economics, UM-Dearborn, September 1,
1981




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


71


Jeffrey P. Bonner, M. Phil., Anthropology, UM-Dearborn, September 1,
1981
James M. Fordyce, S.M., Finance, UM-Flint, July 1, 1981
Richard L. Hartwick, M.B.A., Accounting, UM-Flint, July 1, 1981
Brooks B. Hull, M.A., Economics, UM-Dearborn, September 1, 1981
James W. Kibbie, A.Mus.D., Music, September 1, 1981
Holita L. Kisielius, M.M., Marketing, September 1, 1981
Arnold M. Melnick, Ph.D., Accounting, UM-Flint, September 1, 1981
Visiting Professor
John H. Barton, J.D., Law, September 1, 1981
Gary Graffman, Diploma, Music, September 1, 1981
Herbert A. Hollister, Ph.D., Mathematics, LS&A, July 1, 1981
Amia Lieblich, Ph.D., Psychology, July 1, 1981
Israel D. Lieblich, Ph.D., Psychology, July 1, 1981
Gale E. Newell, Ph.D., Accounting, September 1, 1981
Abdul H. Qureshi, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering, UM-Dearborn, May 1,
1981
Visiting Associate Professor
Robert C. Cummins, Ph.D., Philosophy, July 1, 1981
Savas Dimopoulos, Ph.D., Physics, July 1, 1981
Simao Kon, M.Sc.D., Dentistry, August 1, 1981
Paul S. Larsen, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
June 19, 1981
Perla Q. Makil, Ph.D., Sociology, July 1, 1981
Eugene M. Pijanowski, M.F.A., Art, September 1, 1981
Visiting Assistant Professor
Peter Brimblecombe, Ph.D., Atmospheric and Oceanic Science, July 10,
1981
Lenore F. Coral, Ph.D., Music, September 14, 1981
David A. Damschroder, Ph.D., Music, September 1, 1981
Ferdinand J. Gajewski, Ph.D., Music, September 1, 1981
Robert S. Hatten, M.M., Music, September 1, 1981
Joseph A. Machak, Ph.D., Statistics and Management Science, July 1,
1981
Louis Marinaro, M.F.A., Art, September 1, 1981
Visiting Instructor
Jose I. C. Ribeiro, M.D., Anesthesiology, Medical School, July 1, 1981
Visiting Lecturer
Virginia L. Brereton, Ph.D., Education, September 1, 1981
Gary Hamel, M.B.A., International Business, September 1, 1981
Nancy G. Hottel-Burkhart, Ph.D., English Language Institute, July 1,
1981
Adjunct Professor
Raj Aggarwal, D.B.A., Business Administration, July 1, 1981
Francois Furet, Agreg D. Histori, History, September 1, 1981
Richard C. Lemmon, Ph.D., Economics, UM-Dearborn, July 1, 1981
Gerald J. Yakatan, Ph.D., Pharmacy, July 1, 1981
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Jan S. Rosenbaum, M.F.A., Art, September 1, 1981
Adjunct Lecturer
Peter T. Allen, M.A., Real Estate, September 1, 1981
Petros Gheresus, Ph.D., Computer Science, UM-Flint, July 1, 1981




72


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


Promotions, etc.


Patricia M. Huellmantel, M.A., Education, UM-Flint, July 1, 1981
Andrew F. Lawlor, Policy and Control, Business Administration, September 1, 1981
Annemarie Roeper, Division of Education, UM-Dearborn, July 13, 1981
Clinical Associate Professor
Dennis P. Horan, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1981
Clinical Assistant Professor
Andrew Mitchell, M.D., Dermatology, July 1, 1981
Stephen R. Ramsburgh, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1981
Sylvia Ross, M.S., Dentistry, August 15, 1981
Walter C. Schoen, M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1981
James J. Shields, M.D., Radiology, July 1, 1981
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF
INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1981 unless otherwise indicated
Umar F. Abd-Allah, from Visiting Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor of Islamic Studies
Gregory Ballard, from Visiting Lecturer to Lecturer of Music
Eric A. Becher, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Music, July 1,
1981
George Bittlingmayer, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Business
Administration
David C. Blair, from Lecturer in Management Science to Assistant
Professor of Computer and Information Systems
Francis X. Blouin, Jr., from Director of Michigan Historical Collections,
Assistant Professor of Library Science, and Lecturer in History to
Director of Michigan Historical Collections, Assistant Professor of
Library Science, and Assistant Professor of History
Lawrence B. Brilliant, from Assistant Professor of Health Planning and
Administration to Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, July 1, 1981
Virgil W. Cope, Chairman of the Department of Chemistry and Associate
Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, to Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, July 1, 1981
Stephen C. Crane, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Medical Care
Organization, Public Health, August 1, 1981
Dennis Crowley, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Jack T. Dillon, from Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine to Instructor
in Internal Medicine in the Department of Surgery and Instructor
in Internal Medicine, June 1, 1981
Joan C. Durrance, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Library Science
Lee E. Edlefsen, from Visiting Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor
of Economics
Errol E. Erlandson, from Assistant Dean for Student Affairs and Assistant
Professor of Surgery to Assistant Dean for Student Affairs and
Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 1, 1981
Sheila C. Feld, from Assistant Dean and Professor to Professor of Social
Work, with tenure, July 1, 1981
Phillip A. Fellin, from Dean and Professor to Professor of Social Work,
with tenure, July 1, 1981
Barry R. Furrow, from Visiting Lecturer in Law in the Residential
College to Visiting Professor of Law, Law School
Jerrold D. Green, from Lecturer to Instructor, Political Science
E. Eugene Handley, from Lecturer in Health Behavior and Health
Education, and Assistant Professor of Education to Lecturer in
Health Education, and Lecturer in Education, July 1, 1981




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


73


Martin E. Hurwitz, Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, also appointed Clinical Instructor in Surgery, June 1, 1981
Aneel A. Karnani, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Policy and
Control, Business Administration
Dee M. Kilpatrick, from Assistant Dean and Professor, with tenure, to
Professor of Social Work, with tenure, July 1, 1981
Judith L. Moyer, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Nursing
Virginia S. Nelson, from Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
and Lecturer in Community Health Programs to Instructor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and Lecturer in Community Health
Programs, July 1, 1981
T. Francis Ogilvie, from Chairman of the Department of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering and Professor of Fluid Mechanics,
with tenure, to Professor of Fluid Mechanics, with tenure, July 1,
1981
Carolyn J. Palmer, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Nursing
Edward L. Parmentier, from Lecturer to Adjunct Assistant Professor
of Music
Sharon A. Redmer, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Nursing
Sharna Striar, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Nursing
Frances W. Thurber, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Nursing
Jeffrey Urist, from Assistant Professor to Lecturer in Psychiatry, July 1,
1981
Joseph B. Zubrick, from Adjunct Lecturer in Speech and Theatre to
Lecturer in Speech and Theatre
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS                     Resignations
Effective on dates indicated
Dean
Lee Katz, Academic Development and Education, UM-Dearborn,
June 30, 1981
Mary M. Lohr, Nursing, August 31, 1981
Professor
John L. Clough, Music, May 31, 1981
William R. Hart, Pathology, June 30, 1981
Jo Anne Horsley, Nursing, August 31, 1981
Regina Lederman, Nursing, August 31, 1981
David T. Pratt, Mechanical Engineering, July 31, 1981
Harvey W. Schield, Jr., Dentistry, July 31, 1981
George W. Williams, Biostatistics, Public Health, September 15, 1981
Associate Professor
Mara M. Baun, Nursing, August 19, 1981
Marianne Fearn, Theatre, UM-Flint, May 31, 1981
Juan R. Garcia, History, UM-Flint, June 30, 1981
Carl W. Kammeyer, Chemistry, UM-Flint, June 30, 1981
James O. Winjum, Accounting, Business Administration, UM-Flint,
May 31, 1981
Marilyn B. Young, History, May 31, 1981
Assistant Professor
James S. Bower, Internal Medicine, June 30, 1981
William B. Butler, Dentistry, August 31, 1981
Ralph M. Crystal, Education, August 7, 1981
Zbigniew Fiedorowicz, Mathematics, May 31, 1981




74


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


Leonard A. Johnson, Music, August 31, 1981
Michael E. Lamb, Psychology, August 31, 1981
Lorman L. Lundsten, Marketing, UM-Flint, August 31, 1981
Edward D. Maggiore, Dentistry and Public Health, July 15, 1981
Ernest O. Moore, Architecture, August 7, 1981
Barbara J. Mudge, Anesthesiology, July 31, 1981
Michael A. Nelson, Economics, UM-Flint, June 30, 1981
George T. Sperl, Biology, UM-Dearborn, June 30, 1981
Richard A. Taketa, Geography, September 1, 1981
Nancy J. Thier, Nursing, May 31, 1981
Susan W. Vince, Natural Resources, May 31, 1981
Hussein M. K. Zeidan, Chemistry, UM-Flint, May 31, 1981
Instructor
Myrwood C. Besozzi, Internal Medicine, June 30, 1981
Jeffrey Cossman, Pathology, June 30, 1981
Michael A. Palmen, Psychiatry, July 14, 1981
Lecturer
Carol A. Harris, Coalition for the Use of Learning Skills and English
Language and Literature, August 31, 1981
Patti L. Henry, Theatre, UM-Flint, May 31, 1981
Margaret A. Nelson, Management, UM-Flint, June 30, 1981
Leonard B. Weisenthal, Physics, UM-Dearborn, April 30, 1981
Visiting Associate Professor
Thomas C. Shope, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, May 31, 1981
Clinical Assistant Professor
C. Dennis Bucko, Surgery, Medical School, July 6, 1981
John W. Smillie, Ophthalmology, June 30, 1981
Clinical Instructor
Walter G. Drymalski, Internal Medicine, February 28, 1981
Beverly S. Grant, Dentistry, September 1, 1981
Charles W. Reeder, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
August 31, 1981
Kathleen N. Stephenson, Dental Hygiene, Dentistry, May 31, 1981
Deceased
Jonathan A. Laitone, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and
Applied Mechanics, June 21, 1981
Leaves of    Ninety-one sabbatical leaves, five assignments off campus,
Absence three extended sick leaves, twenty-one retirement furloughs, and
thirty-seven leaves without salary were reported to the Regents.
R. M. Bailey VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Retirement
Vice-President Kennedy reported the retirement of two
faculty members. The following memoirs were adopted.
REEVE M. BAILEY, Professor of Biological Sciences and Curator
of Fishes in the Museum of Zoology, has retired from active faculty status
as of June 30, 1981, after a most productive career as a researcher,
teacher, and curator.
A native of West Virginia, Dr. Bailey attended the University of
Toledo before entering The University of Michigan where he received




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


75


his A.B. degree in 1933 and his Ph.D. in 1938. In 1938 he went to Iowa
State University as Instructor in Zoology, and was promoted to Assistant
in 1943. The following year he returned to The University of Michigan
as Associate Curator of Fishes in the Museum of Zoology and became
Curator of Fishes in 1948. He was also Assistant Professor (1944-50),
Associate Professor (1950-59), and Professor (1959-  ) in the Department of Zoology of this University.
An internationally known ichthyologist, Dr. Bailey has published
widely on the systematics, hybridization, and zoogeography of North
American fresh water fishes. He is also an authority on the nomenclature
of fishes and for thirty years has been a member of the Committee of
Names of Fishes of the American Fisheries Society (serving as chairman
from 1951-71). He also served as President and Chairman of the Executive Committee of that society (1974-75), and is one of eleven ichthyologists to receive the prestigious American Fisheries Society Award of
Excellence. He also served as member of the Editorial board and president
of the American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists (1959). He
served on the Council of the American Association for the Advancement
of Science (1968-72), and has been active in several other learned
societies.
Field studies on fishes were conducted by Dr. Bailey in several parts
of the United States, as well as Michigan, and his papers are the basis
for much of our knowledge of the classification and distribution of the
most important groups of fishes in the Mississippi and Great Lakes
drainages. His studies in Iowa and South Dakota led to major works on
the fishes of thoses states. Amazonian, Bolivia, Paraguay, Guatemala, and
Lake Tanganyika have also been sites of his field work.
In his thirty six years as senior curator of the Division of Fishes,
Dr. Bailey maintained exemplary standards in the collection, identification,
and processing of new material, as well as encouraging and aiding many
significant studies based on the fish collection. The nearly three million
catalogued specimens in the collection are a renowned resource for scientific research and a major attraction for students and evolutionary
biologists. The leading position of the University of Michigan Museum
of Zoology in the graduate training of ichthyologists is to a considerable
extent the result of Dr. Bailey's work with graduate students, who hold
important positions in the field.
The Regents now salute this distinguished researcher, teacher, and
curator by naming him Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences.
RICHARD B. BRANDT, Professor of Philosophy, retired from the     R. B. Brandt
active faculty on May 31, 1981, after seventeen years of effective service  Retirement
to the University.
Professor Brandt graduated from Denison University in 1930, with
majors in both philosophy and classical studies. He did graduate work
at Cambridge University and the University of Tubingen and received
his Ph.D. from Yale University in 1936. Professor Brandt taught at
Swarthmore College from 1937 to 1964. He joined The University of
Michigan faculty in 1964 as Chairman of the Department of Philosophy,
and served ably in this capacity for thirteen years. During his tenure the
Department grew from twelve to twenty faculty members.
Professor Brandt has had many professional honors: Guggenheim
Fellowship; Fellow at Center for Advanced Study of the Behavioral
Sciences; John Locke Lecturer at Oxford University; President of the
American Philosophical Association (Western Division); and president of
two interdisciplinary societies, one dealing with political and legal philosophy and the other with philosophy and psychology. Within The
University of Michigan, Professor Brandt has been awarded the Distinguished Achievement Award and has been the Roy Wood Sellars
Distinguished College Professor of Philosophy.




76


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


Professor Brandt's work in ethics is outstanding. His Hopi Ethics:
A Theoretical Analysis (1954) was a landmark in the use of anthropological data to examine fundamental philosophic issues. His Ethical Theory
(1959) has been reprinted several times; it is a systematic treatise which
includes his own position, on original form of rule-utilitarianism. His
crowning achievement, A Theory of the Good and the Right (1979),
argues that a rational person would choose a moral code based on rules of
action that maximize utility. He has supplemented these books with a
wide variety of articles which apply his ideas to practical issues.
In view of these many accomplishments and contributions to the
University, the Regents now salute this distinguished scholar and teacher
for his dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Philosophy.
VII. DEATHS
L. J. Washington,  Chancellor Jenkins reported the death of Mr. Lawrence J.
Report of Death Washington, a member of the advisory committee for UMDearborn. Regent Baker commented that Mr. Washington was a
respected member of the business community in Detroit and a
good friend of the University.
VIII. DEGREES
Degree Lists  On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the
Amended Regents approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
School of Business Administration
Master of Business Administration, May 1981
correct to show:
Doowon Kim, B.A. in Business Administration, Soogang University
School of Education
Master of Arts, May 1981
delete:
Joan Marilyn Brown, B.Sc., University of Nebraska, Lincoln
Master of Science, May 1981
add:
Joan Marilyn Brown, B.Sc., University of Nebraska, Lincoln
College of Engineering
Master of Science (Industrial and Operations Engineering),
May 1981
delete:
Wolfgang Rudolf Geihe, B.S.(B.A.), Boston University
Master of Science in Engineering (Industrial and Operations
Engineering), May 1981
add:
Wolfgang Rudolf Geihe, B.S.(B.A.), Boston University
Law School
Juris Doctor cum laude, December 1979
correct to show:
Stephen Thomas LeCuyer, A.B., Oberlin College




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981                      77
Juris Doctor, December 1980
add:
Terry Paul Calhoun, M.A., Kent State University
Barbara A. Watkins, B.A., Michigan State University
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, December 1980
add:
Diane Marie Romeo
delete:
Richard Bernard Sheridan with Distinction and Honors in Computer
and Communication Sciences
Bachelor of Science, December 1980
add:
Richard Bernard Sheridan with Distinction and Honors in Computer
and Communication Sciences
Bachelor of Arts, May 1981
add:
Susan D. Finley with Honors in English
Kristin Jeune Koenig
Denise Lynn Merkovitz
Terry Lee Noah with Highest Distinction
Ellen Ann Oberman with Distinction
Catherine E. Pattinson with Distinction
Roseann Marie Spitzig
James Calvin Stevens, Jr.
William J. Thompson with Distinction
Stephen George Tomlinson with Distinction and High Honors in
Economics and High Honors in Philosophy
delete:
Frederic Lawrence Felleman
Susan D. Finley
Nancy Elizabeth lung
Terry Lee Noah with High Distinction
Ellen Ann Oberman
Catherine E. Pattinson
William J. Thompson
Bachelor in General Studies, May 1981
add:
Michael Schwartz
delete:
Michael Edward Schwartz
Bachelor of Science, May 1981
add:
Frederic Lawrence Felleman
Lee Ann Heidel
James David Kindrick with Distinction
Robert Scott Markus with High Distinction
Jeffrey Scott Soble with Highest Distinction
Julie Anne Vesper with High Distinction




78


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


delete:
James David Kindrick
Robert Scott Markus with Distinction
Jeffrey Scott Soble with High Distinction
Julie Anne Vesper with Distinction
School of Nursing
Bachelor of Science in Nursing, May 1981
delete:
Laura Lynn Alexander Woestman
Degrees   The Regents confirmed the degrees conferred at the May
Confirmed 1981 Commencement exercise for the Law School.
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Investment  Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the annual report on
Report investments. He indicated that there would be a detailed discussion in January or February.
Public   The Regents then heard comments from the following individuals on the topics indicated: Terry Calhoun, alumnus, on
"passing up" at football games, and Patricio Cordova, representing the Coalition of Hispanics for Higher Education, on
problems of the Hispanics.
The meeting was recessed.
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1981
The Regents reconvened at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Brown, Dunn,
Nederlander, Power, Roach, Varner, and Waters. Chancellors
Jenkins and Nelson and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Overberger, Johnson, Acting Vice-President Jacobson, and VicePresident and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regent
Baker was absent.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order and indicated
that the first item on the agenda would deal with the parking
structure fee bonds.
Parking Structure  Mr. Norman Herbert, Investment Officer, described the
Fee Bonds
Fee Bonds process by which bids were received for the construction of
the parking structure on the Medical Campus. Goldman, Sachs
and Company submitted the winning bid with the net interest
cost of 12.96%.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


79


Regent Roach moved to adopt a resolution which authorizes
the sale of the Regents of The University of Michigan parking
structure fee bonds in the principle amount of $7,000,000; approve the form of the preliminary Official Statement and authorize certain officers to execute the preliminary and final Official
Statement in substantially the form of the preliminary Official
Statement; approve the form of the Official Notice of Sale; and
authorize certain officers to execute the Bonds and any other
documentation necessary, expedient and proper in connection
with the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds. Regent
Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted. The
resolution follows:
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE SALE OF $7,000,000 THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN PARKING STRUCTURE FEE BONDS,
RATIFYING AND APPROVING THE OFFICIAL NOTICE OF SALE,
RATIFYING    AND   APPROVING     THE OFFICIAL STATEMENT
DESCRIBING THE BONDS AND THE DISTRIBUTION THEREOF,
AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF A FINAL
OFFICIAL STATEMENT AND AUTHORIZING OTHER MATTERS
RELATIVE TO THE FOREGOING
WHEREAS, the Regents of The University of Michigan (the "University"), by a resolution adopted July 17, 1981 (the "Resolution"), have
authorized the issuance of Parking Structure Fee Bonds in the principal
amount of Seven Million Dollars ($7,000,000) to provide funds for the
construction of a new parking structure in the proximity of the medical
campus of the University, and has delegated to the Vice-President and
Chief Financial Officer of the University the preparation of the form of
notice of sale, arrangements for such public sale, and the preparation
of a Preliminary Official Statement; and
WHEREAS, the notice of sale has been published in the September 3,
1981 edition of the Daily Bond Buyer, New York, New York and the
September 5, 1981 edition of the Michigan Investor, Detroit, Michigan;
and
WHEREAS, in connection with the sale of the Bonds it has been
necessary to circulate a preliminary Official Statement describing the
Bonds and it may be necessary to circulate a final Official Statement; and
WHEREAS, there have been presented to and reviewed by the University and filed with the minutes of the meeting copies of the notice of
sale and preliminary Official Statement; and
WHEREAS, September 17, 1981 at 11:00 o'clock a.m., Eastern Daylight Time, has been set as the date and time for opening bids for the
purchase of Bonds; and
WHEREAS, said bids have been publicly opened and read; and
WHEREAS, the following bids have been received:




80


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981 -

Name of Bidder
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
(& Associates)
John Nuveen & Co.
Incorporated
Salomon Brothers


Interest
Maturities         Rates
1983 to 1992, incl. 14.00%
1993              12.20%
1994              12.30%
1995              12.50%
1996              12.60%
1997              12.80%
1998              12.90%
1999              13.00%
2000              13.10%
2001              12.00%
2002              13.25%
Gross Interest Cost
Premium
Net Interest Cost
Net Effective Interest Rate
1983 to 1989, incl. 14.50%
1990              12.75%
1991 to 1994, incl. 12.50%
1995              12.75%
1996              13.00%
1997              13.10%
1998              13.20%
1999 to 2002, incl. 13.25%
Gross Interest Cost
Premium
Net Interest Cost
Net Effective Interest Rate
1983 to 1986, incl. 14.50%
1987              12.50%
1988 to 1990, incl. 14.50%
1991              12.60%
1992 to 1993      12.50%
1994              12.60%
1995              12.80%
1996              13.00%
1997              13.20%
1998              13.40%
1999              13.60%
2000              13.70%
2001              13.75%
2002              13.75%
Gross Interest Cost
Premium
Net Interest Cost
Net Effective Interest Rate


$13,638,178.75
$    1,574.80
$13,636,603.95
12.9631%
$13,851,395.00
-0 -$13,851,395.00
13.1674%
$14,194,290.00
1,113.35
$14,193,176.65
13.4922%




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


81


WHEREAS, the bid of Goldman, Sachs & Co. (& Associates) has been
determined to produce the lowest interest cost to the University;
Now, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT:
1. The bid of Goldman, Sachs & Co. (& Associates) as above stated,
be and the same is hereby accepted.
2. All other bids are hereby rejected and the good faith checks of
the unsuccessful bidders are hereby ordered returned to each bidder's
representative or by registered mail.
3. The form of the notice of sale and the publication of the notice
of sale as aforesaid are hereby ratified and confirmed.
4. The preliminary Official Statement on file with the Secretary and
on which has been endorsed by the Secretary the date of adoption of this
resolution is hereby approved. The action of the Vice-President and Chief
Financial Officer and legal counsel in preparing and distributing the
preliminary Official Statement be and they are hereby ratified and confirmed, and all actions of the Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer,
other University staff, and legal counsel heretofore taken in connection
with the sale of the Bonds be and they are hereby ratified and confirmed.
The Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer, upon request of the
successful bidder, is hereby authorized and directed for and on behalf
of the University to execute a final Official Statement in substantially the
form of the preliminary Official Statement hereby approved, together with
insertion of the Paying Agent, interest rate and price and such further
necessary or desirable changes, insertions or omissions that are not
materially adverse to the University. Said final Official Statement and the
information contained therein are hereby authorized to be used in connection with the sale of the Bonds to the public.
5. The President, Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer of the
University, Secretary and other officers and staff of the University and
each of them be and they hereby are authorized and directed to execute
such other documents and certifications and to perform such other acts
as may be necessary or convenient for the proper sale, execution and
delivery of the Bonds subject to and as may be required by the notice of
sale, the Resolution, as amended, and this resolution.
6. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the
University in conflict herewith be and the same are repealed insofar as
such conflict exists.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff commented upon a meeting that       Replacement
had taken place in August with Carl Johnson, of Johnson,            ospital Proec
Johnson, and Roy, Dean Metcalf, of the School of Architecture,
and others to review in detail the various exterior materials
chosen by the architect, Albert Kahn, for the Replacement Hospital Project.
Dr. Douglas Sarbach showed a brief slide presentation of the
site for the new hospital and the surrounding buildings of the
medical campus. He pointed out the importance of consistency
of color in choosing the brick and precast cement for the replacement hospital. Samples of the range of colors suitable for that
area will be erected on the site, so that selection can be made in
the natural light and in the natural surroundings.
Regent Nederlander wanted to see a scale model of the
project, and since one did not exist, he suggested that the study




82


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


model be brought to the next meeting of the Board. He indicated
that the decision on the coloration of the brick and precast would
be made by the Regents.
Regent Power remarked that before the next decision was
made, perhaps it would be helpful to see a revised sketch of the
entire project to include the addition of the ambulatory care unit
which had previously been deferred.
President Shapiro explained that the deferred items were not
in the same stage of design as the rest of the project. It was
important that the project proceed as scheduled; therefore, certain decisions would have to be made prior to the completion
of those plans.
After further discussion, it was determined that both the
samples of brick and precast cement and the study model of the
project would be on display for viewing by the Regents in
October.
Auditor   Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the Auditor General's
General'Rerrtn report for the Dearborn Campus and the University's responses
to it. He recommended approval so that the document can be
transmitted to the Auditor General.
The Regents raised questions concerning the library expenditures for magazine and paper subscriptions, the appropriateness
of charging the general fund for the Early Learning and Child
Development Center, and the record keeping of the auxiliary
activity funds for all three campuses.
Regent Roach moved to approve the Auditor General's
report and the University's responses for the Dearborn Campus.
Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Hospital  The Regents received a semi-annual report of University
Accounts Hospital accounts receivables.
Receivables
Regent Roach moved to accept the terms and conditions
of the Thurnau Charitable Trust, and to authorize designated
individuals to accept, on behalf of the Regents, any and all payments from the trustee. Regent Dunn seconded the motion and
it was adopted. The resolution of acceptance follows.
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN ACCEPTING THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE
THURNAU CHARITABLE TRUST AND AUTHORIZING DESIGNATED INDIVIDUALS TO ACCEPT PAYMENTS ON BEHALF OF
THE REGENTS FROM THE TRUSTEE
WHEREAS, Arthur F. Thurnau of Wilmette, Illinois, died on September 27, 1979, leaving a last will which has been admitted to probate
in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, County Department, Probate
Division, in cause No. 79 P 7401; and




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


83


WHEREAS, by Section 3 of Article SIXTH of said will Arthur F.
Thurnau created the Thurnau Charitable Trust; and
WHEREAS, the said Thurnau Charitable Trust is, by the provision of
said will, to be held for the benefit of the Trustee to pay all of the net
income and so much of the principal of said trust as shall be necessary
from time to time to satisfy the provisions of Section 4943 of the Internal
Revenue Code, to the Regents of The University of Michigan to be used
by the Regents in such proportions as they shall determine for the four
purposes set out in Section 3 (a) of said Article SIXTH of the will of
Arthur F. Thurnau;
Now, THEREFORE, be it resolved that the Regents of The University
of Michigan hereby accept the terms and conditions of the Thurnau
Charitable Trust, as set forth in the will of Arthur F. Thurnau, Deceased;
and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that J. F. Brinkerhoff, Vice-President and
Chief Financial Officer, C. W. Matthews, Controller, and R. K. Daane,
General Counsel, or their successors, be and each of them hereby is
authorized to accept on behalf of the Regents of The University of Michigan any and all payments from the Trustee of said Trust to the Regents
of The University of Michigan and to execute and deliver receipts therefore, hereby ratifying, confirming and approving any such receipts heretofore given to the Trustee by any of said persons.
Regent Nederlander moved to approve the following additions of common stock to the University's Master List: Digital
Equipment Corporation, Geosource, Inc., Lowe's Companies,
The Washington Post Company, McDonald's Corporation, Hospital Corporation of America, Air Products and Chemicals, Inc.,
and Dover Corporation. Regent Power seconded the motion and
it was adopted.
Regent Roach moved to authorize awarding a contract to the
low bidder, Michigan Electric, Inc., of Ravenna, Michigan, for
electrical power augmentation-North Switching Station-at the
University Hospital. Regent Varner seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
Regent Dunn moved approval to proceed with the renovations of the Medical Science I building for wet laboratories, as
recommended. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
Regent Power moved to approve the commitment of funds
to the Ann Arbor Veterans Administration Hospital to provide
wet research laboratories for faculty in the Department of
Surgery. Regent Varner seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Regent Dunn moved authorization to purchase 1.316 acres
of land from Consolidated Rail Corporation for the price of
$20,000. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the bids received for
the demolition/earthwork/utilities for the Replacement Hospital
Project. He said many discussions were held to determine the


Additions to
Master List of
Common Stock
Contract
Awarded, North
Switching
Station
Renovations


Real Property
Bid Package
#4, RHP




84


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


manner in which the bids were let-should the three components
be considered together, or should they be considered separately?
It was felt that treating the components as one would preclude
smaller bidders from participating. Meetings were arranged for
minority and small business enterprises to become familiar with
the University's bidding process and to encourage them to enter
the bidding. As-a result of these meetings two contractors did
submit bids.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff stated that his recommendation
for the awarding of contracts would differ from the agenda item
in that he would award the contracts to the low bidder in each
case. The agenda item recommends a single contractor for the
three components of Bid Package #4, even though that contractor is third lowest for the demolition work. There is a sound
management reason for having one contract, but, if separate bids
are requested, then the University is obligated to retain the low
bidder in each instance. He recommended awarding contracts to
Homrich Wrecking, Inc. for the demolition component.
After further discussion, Regent Nederlander moved approval to award construction contracts to Homrich Wrecking
Company, of Maybee, Michigan, for the demolition element of
Bid Package #4; and to B & V Construction Company, of Novi,
Michigan, for the earthwork and utilities element of Bid Package
#4. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Dunn commended Vice-President Brinkerhoff and
those involved in the process for the diversification of the bids.
X. OTHER
Budget, 1981-82  President Shapiro indicated that only the General Fund
budgets for the three campuses had been approved on Thursday,
and asked for a motion to approve the remaining portions of
the proposed budget.
Regent Dunn then moved to approve the 1981-82 operating
budgets for Ann Arbor, Dearborn, and Flint. Regent Nederlander
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Easement   Regent Nederlander moved approval of the following resoluAuthority tion concerning delegation of easement authority. Regent Power
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
WHEREAS, in November 1963, the Regents delegated to then VicePresident Wilbur K. Pierpont authority to execute in the name of the
Regents of The University of Michigan necessary easements to utility
companies, and
WHEREAS, since the retirement of Vice-President Pierpont, such easements have continued to be executed by his successor, Vice-President and
Chief Financial Officer James F. Brinkerhoff,




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


85


Now, THEREFORE, IT IS RESOLVED that James F. Brinkerhoff, VicePresident and Chief Financial Officer is authorized and directed to
execute in the name of the Regents of The University of Michigan easements to utility companies, including, but not limited to, Consumers Power
Company, Detroit Edison Company, Michigan Bell Telephone Company,
Michigan Consolidated Gas Company, which may be necessary to obtain
or maintain utility services to University property, and
THEREFORE, IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED that any such easements heretofore executed by said James F. Brinkerhoff be and they are hereby
ratified and affirmed.
The Regents approved the following schedule for Regents' Regents' Meetings
meetings for 1982.                                                Schedule
January 14, 15              July 15, 16
February 18, 19             August-no meeting
March 18, 19                September 16, 17
April 15, 16                October 14, 15
May 20, 21                  November 18, 19
June 17, 18                 December 16, 17
Commencement Exercises in 1982 will be on Saturday, May 1;
Sunday, August 22; and Sunday, December 19.
The Thursday sessions of the regular October and May meetings will
be held at Flint and Dearborn respectively.
Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy announced that the
Regents' meeting at the Flint Campus, normally held in October,
will be postponed until December this year. Groundbreaking
ceremonies for the Replacement Hospital will take place on
October 15, 1981.
Regent Brown moved to approve the change in the name of       Department
the Department of Anatomy to the Department of Anatomy and        Name Change
Cell Biology, effective July 1, 1981. Regent Roach seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
The Regents approved the following resolution honoring         T. HI. Cheng
Dr. Tso-Hsin Cheng, of the People's Republic of China.            Resolution
It is very special privilege for The University of Michigan to honor
Dr. Tso-Hsin Cheng, a native of the People's Republic of China, who
received his doctorate here in Zoology a half century ago.
He was trained in embryology under the late Professor Peter Okkelberg, but upon his return to China he was asked to devote his scientific
efforts to research in ornithology. Dr. Cheng thus became a self-taught
ornithologist, with a special interest in pheasants. He was truly a pioneer
in developing the systematic study of the birds of China, and today is
considered the leading ornithologist of the PRC. His administrative and
scientific accomplishments are channeled through a variety of top-level
appointments: At the renowned Chinese Academy of Sciences (Academia
Sinica) in Peking he is Distinguished Professor of Ornithology, head of
the Division of Vertebrate Taxonomy, and member of the Scientific
Council; in addition he is Deputy Director of the Peking Natural History
Museum and President of the Chinese Ornithological Society. Currently
he is also Vice-President of the Chinese Zoological Society and is active
in ornithological societies of Japan, Germany, Britain, and the United
States.




86


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


Dr. Cheng gained a national and international reputation through his
monumental 1200-page work, Distributional List of Chinese Birds, which
covers 2000 species and subspecies and is recognized as the definitive work
on the distribution of Chinese birds. This study, as well as more than 50
associate papers were the result of intensive field studies throughout China
by Dr. Cheng and his students.
As Editor of the comprehensive series of volumes entitled Fauna
Sinica, he is continuing his foundational work in zoology. He has personally already prepared a volume on the waterfowl of China and another
on its gallinaceous birds. At the age of 74, Dr. Cheng has exciting plans
for further work and is happy that there is no compulsory retirement for
scientists in his country.
Dr. Cheng has gained prestige for himself, for his country, and for
his alma mater. We are proud to present this citation in recognition of an
illustrious career.
Bylaw Revision   Regent Dunn moved to approve the revision of Section
11.151B of the Regents' Bylaws; approve the resolution requiring a two-year review; and approve the revision of the Bylaws of
the Executive Board of University Hospital, Article I, Section
3C, as follows. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Sec. 11.151B. The University Hospital Public Advisory Board. There
shall be a Public Advisory Board, composed of no more than fifteen public
members serving three-year terms, staggered so that five will be appointed
each year. A representative of the FRIENDS of University Hospital will
serve a one-year term and be appointed annually by the FRIENDS. Members
shall be appointed by the Board of Regents upon recommendation of the
President, and one member shall be named as chairman and one member
as vice-chairman by the Board of Regents on nomination of the President.
The Public Advisory Board will provide advice and assistance on
general Hospital operations, public relations, future planning, governmental relations, and fund-raising.
The Public Advisory Board will report to the Director of University
Hospital, to the Executive Board of University Hospital and, through the
President, to the Board of Regents. The Board shall submit its minutes
to members of the Hospital Executive Board and the Board of Regents.
The Director of University Hospital shall be responsible for providing
staff support for the Board.
Resolution Requiring Two Year Review
The purpose, charge, effectiveness, value, and continued appropriateness of the University Hospital Public Advisory Board shall be reviewed
every two years.
The review shall be conducted by the Director of University Hospital
with findings and recommendations forwarded to the University Executive
Board, which shall report thereon to the Board of Regents.
The first review shall commence in July, 1983.
Regents' Bylaw Section 11.151B shall lapse and become inoperable
on January 1, 1984, if not reenacted between July, 1983 and January,
1984.
Hospital, Bylaws of the Executive Board of University Hospital, Article I, Section
Bylaw Revision 3C.
Article I. Name, Membership, and Responsibilities.
Section 3. Responsibilities.
The Board shall:
C. In relationship to the Public Advisory Board:




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


87


1. Receive and act upon, as appropriate, recommendations from
the Public Advisory Board of the University Hospital and receive,
on a regular basis, minutes of that Board's meetings.
The proposed amendments to the bylaws, rules, and regulations of the Medical Staff of The University of Michigan were
deferred until October.
The Regents approved the resolutions for three retiring members of the UM-Flint Citizens Advisory Committee.
Regent Brown read the following resolution and moved its
adoption. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
WHEREAS, the Board of Regents of The University of Michigan
acknowledges and commends the Board in Control of Intercollegiate
Athletics and the Athletic Department staff for their efforts to improve
opportunities for all students to participate in intercollegiate athletic
programs; and
WHEREAS, the Regents recognize that the recent Federal District
Court decision in Othen v. Ann Arbor School Board has held that Title IX
of the Education Amendments of 1972 applies only to "... programs or
activities receiving Federal financial assistance..."; and
WHEREAS, proposed revisions of Title IX recently introduced in
Congress would restrict the application of Title IX to programs or activities receiving Federal financial assistance; and
WHEREAS, neither the Board in Control nor the Ahtletic Department
is such a "... program or activity..."; nonetheless, the Regents wish to
reaffirm the position expressed in Regents' Bylaw 14.06 with particular
respect to women's intercollegiate athletics;
IT Is RESOLVED, that the Regents reaffirm their commitment to principles of non-discrimination in intercollegiate athletic programs, as well
as in other activities, and direct the Board in Control of Intercollegiate
Athletics and the Athletic Department staff to continue their efforts to
that end.
The Regents approved the reappointments of three members
of the Community Advisory Board for Channel 28 Television
and the appointment of five new members.
Regent Power read the following resolution and moved its
adoption. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
WHEREAS, the United Nations has proclaimed 1981 as the International Year of Disabled Persons
And whereas, The President of the United States, Mr. Ronald Reagan,
has pledged the cooperation of his administration and the Federal Agencies under his jurisdiction, including the Federal Inter-Agency Committee
for the Year of Disabled Persons:
Be it RESOLVED that:
The University of Michigan records its full support of this effort by
subscribing to the keynote theme "Full Participation and Equality" and
endorsing the following five principal objectives established by the General
Assembly of the United Nations:
To help disabled persons adjust physically and psychologically to
society.


Medical Staff
Bylaws,
Deferred


Flint Advisory
Committee
Resolutions
Reaffirmation of
Commitment to
Affirmative
Action, Title IX
Television
Advisory Board
Appointments
International
Year of Disabled
Persons
Resolution




88


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


To promote national and international efforts to provide disabled
persons with proper assistance, training, care, and opportunities for
suitable work in order to ensure their full integration into society.
To encourage research on problems related to practical participation
of disabled persons in daily life.
To promote prevention of disability and rehabilitation of disabled
persons.
To educate and inform the public of the rights of disabled persons to
participate in and contribute to various aspects of economic, social,
and political life.
Be it further RESOLVED that The University of Michigan will conduct
a program of support during the academic year of 1981-82 by:
-seeking productive roles and equal opportunities for persons with
disabilities within the University community:
-identifying ways to improve accessibility to programs in arts, education, and the professions that are of special importance to persons
with disabilities;
-publicizing and seeking to enhance research into the causes and prevention of disabilities, and the art, science, and technology of rehabilitation;
-investigating ways to improve transportation and accessibility of
University buildings that are essential to the needs of the disabled;
-stimulating University community and general public awareness of
the special physical and psychological assistance and consideration
needed by those with disabilities.
V. Nordby     Regent Power expressed her appreciation to Mrs. Virginia
Commended Nordby, Executive Assistant to the President and Director of
Affirmative Action, for the effective effort by her office in revising
and reproducing the Bylaws of the Board of Regents.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of July totaled $599.84 and for the month of August
totaled $1,657.09.
The Regents adjourned to meet on October 15 and 16, 1981.
RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1981


89


INDEX
Affirmative Action, reaffirmation of Title IX, 87
Anatomy, Department of, name change, 85
Appointments, 66, 69; committee, 68
Audit report, 1980-81, 54
Bailey, R. M., retirement, 74
Brandt, R. B., retirement, 75
Budget, 1981-82, 54, 84
Bylaw revision, Sec. 11.151B, 86
Cheng, Tso-Hin, resolution, 85
Common stock, additions to master list, 83
Dearborn: Auditor General's report, 82; budget, 1981-82, 58
Degrees: lists amended, 76; confirmed for Law School, 78
Easement authority, 84
Financial aid eligibility criteria, 56
Financial report, 53
Flint: advisory committee resolutions, 87; budget, 1981-82; 57; television
advisory board appointments, 87
Gifts, 59
Hobbs, W. H., Professorship in Geography established, 68
Hospital: accounts receivables, 82; Bid Pack #4, 83; bylaw revision, 86;
replacement project, 81
International Year of Disabled Persons resolution, 87
Investment report, 78
Kish, George, appointed to Hobbs professorship, 68
Leaves of absence, 68, 74
Medical Staff bylaws deferred, 87
Nordby, V., commended, 88
North Switching Station, contract awarded, 83
Parking structure fee bonds, 78
Promotions, 67, 72
Public Comments, 78
Real property, 83
Regents' meetings schedule, 85
Renovations, 38
Resignations, 73
Washington, L. J., report of death, 76




APPENDIX A
Conferred August 23, 1981
THEODORE M. HESBURGH
President, University of Notre Dame
The University of Michigan speaks for all of higher education today
by recognizing one of its finest leaders, Father Theodore Hesburgh. His
career illustrates the many-faceted role of a contemporary leader in
American education, a role which highlights the increasingly interrelated
areas of education, government, and public affairs. As the President of
Notre Dame, he has been involved in national studies of such issues as race
relations, campus unrest, a volunteer armed force, and the refugee policy
of the United States.
Two of Father Hesburgh's greatest interests have been in civil rights
and international development. He was appointed to the United States
Commission on Civil Rights in 1957, became chairman in 1969, and served
in that capacity until 1972. Notre Dame, with the help of the Ford Foundation, has established a Center for the Human Rights which promotes
the cause of human rights in this country and abroad. Likewise, President
Hesburgh has been active as chairman of the Overseas Development
Council, a private organization founded in 1969 to promote effective aid
to underdeveloped countries. His book The Humane Imperative published
in 1974 stresses the interdependence of the earth's peoples as the key to
human survival in a time of shrinking resources.
Two major developments that have occurred during his administration at Notre Dame have been the reorganization of the University's
governance under lay control in 1967 and the introduction of coeducation
at the undergraduate level in 1972.
Father Hesburgh's achievements and the strength of his leadership
have been recognized and cited throughout the nation. The University
of Michigan is pleased to stand in the company of his many grateful
admirers as it salutes this courageous educational statesman and confers
upon him the degree, Doctor of Laws.


91




OCTOBER MEETING, 1981
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1981


The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. at the Towsley Center to view
a selection of brick and precast cement panels that had been
assembled on the site of the Replacement Hospital Project.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown,
Dunn, Nederlander, Roach, and Varner. Vice-Presidents
Brinkerhoff, Frye, Overberger, Johnson, and Vice-President and
Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regents Power and Waters,
Chancellors Jenkins and Nelson, and Acting Vice-President
Jacobson were absent.
The Regents returned to the Fleming Administration Building
and reconvened at 1:30 P.M. and were joined by Regent Waters,
Chancellors Jenkins and Nelson, and Acting Vice-President
Jacobson.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff distributed and reviewed the
financial report for the year ending June 30, 1981. There was a
slide presentation showing the impact of inflation upon the
University, the changes in both graduate and undergraduate
enrollment since 1960, and revenues by source during the past
ten years. Vice-President Brinkerhoff explained that although
there has been an increase in revenues, inflation and certain
other characteristics have kept revenue activity nearly at a
constant level.
Vice-President Frye commented that an operating budget
request for 1982-83 had been prepared for approval by the
Regents and for submission to the Governor by November 1.
He listed faculty and staff compensation, staff benefits, adjustment for operating expenses at an anticipated rate of inflation of
8.1%, and an overall cost growth for utilities of about 22% as
the core of the budget. In addition, and considered of secondary
importance, there were the traditional program revision requests
and several important needs for new program development,
equipment purchases, expansion in the fields of engineering and
molecular genetics, and as in the case of the School of Public
Health, replacement of the federal fund losses that are anticipated.


RHP Site Visit


Financial Report
for Fiscal 80-81
Budget 1982-83


93




94


OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


Health Insurance
(HMO plan)
Budget, 1982-83,
UM-Dearborn
Budget, 1982-83,
UM-Flint


Vice-President Frye emphasized that these secondary concerns would not be considered until the fundamental core expenses had been satisfied.
The administration is fully aware of the continuing economic
problems of the State and realizes the difficulty the State will have
when considering this budget request. However, it is of utmost
importance for the University to make clear to the State officials
that the $35.3 million budget request would help prevent further erosion, but would not in any way rectify the backlog of
difficulties that have been generated in recent years. It does not
take into account accumulated deficit in equipment purchases,
maintenance, or erosion in faculty/staff salaries.
Regent Dunn asked that in view of the escalated costs of
health insurance, has the health maintenance organization plan
been deferred as an alternative to the current carrier of health
insurance?
Vice-President Brinkerhoff responded that an up-date would
be available within the next few months detailing a specific proposal by Blue Cross/Blue Shield.
Chancellor Jenkins reviewed the budget request for the Dearborn campus. He indicated that his request was patterned after
that of the Ann Arbor campus. The Dearborn compensation
program comprises about two-thirds of their request. Other
factors taken into consideration were those economic factors
brought about by inflation. Program revision requests and a small
amount to finance two new buildings, laboratory equipment replacement, and book acquisitions are also included. The shortfall of the last several years could not be accommodated in this
budget.
Chancellor Nelson stated that the compensation recommendation for the Flint campus followed the percentage proposal for
the Ann Arbor campus. He indicated that their salary program
needed to be upgraded to be competitive with the current market
in certain areas. A high priority item for the campus is to provide
a full-year funding for the operation of the new Physical Education/Recreation Building which will open shortly. Other program revision requests in need of funds are the computer science
program, program expansion planning at the master's level, and
additional nursing faculty. Plans for beginning construction for a
new science facility on the downtown campus have been indefinitely postponed.
President Shapiro indicated that this was just the initial step
in the budget cycle, and there would be a number of meetings
over the next several months before a more accurate budget is
known.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


95


Regent Baker inquired whether the proposed budget anticipated an increase in tuition.
President Shapiro responded that the budget request did not
anticipate any movement in tuition either way. The administration was trying to avoid substantial tuition increases in the future.
It is too early to say whether this would be possible.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of September 17 and 18, 1981
were approved.
II. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on investment transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnellabor relations and the Replacement Hospital Project. He also
submitted a report on non-competitive purchases over $1,000
from single sources.
Vice-President Overberger filed a monthly report on grants
and contracts.
In reference to this report, President Shapiro commented
that during the next year or so resources for higher education
from the State and Federal level would be curtailed to some degree which would add to the burden placed upon the University's
resources. At the Federal level student financial aid and research
would be the issues most affected.
Acting Vice-President Jacobson filed his monthly report on
the Office of University Relations and Development.
With respect to the Replacement Hospital Project report,
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the status of the bid packages noting that the University is progressing very well in terms
of the design elements and the development of construction
documents. He discussed the general conditions items which had
been removed from the individual bid packs because these items
would be handled as separate contracts or as change orders to
an existing contract. Funds have been set aside to provide for onsite testing, including those for architectural specifications. The
University has worked closely with the City of Ann Arbor and
the State of Michigan regarding plumbing and electrical inspections for code compliance reports which would be sent to the
appropriate local and state agencies. The addition to the $210
million project-the $75 million-would be reported separately.
It may be prudent to handle the design development of the
ambulatory care facility under a general contract separate from
the construction manager.


Replacement
Hospital Project




96


OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


Gifts III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from the following
sources. They were received with thanks and in accord with
their terms and conditions.
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for the
American Cancer Society, Inc., funds............................$ 40,982.00
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.; for the American Chemical Society-Francis fund..................................  15,000.00
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for the Arthritis Foundation  funds........................................................................   5,791.65
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn; for the
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter funds..............         8,999.98
Robert Arthur Estate; for the Unrestricted fund....................   21,200.11
Ashland Oil Foundation, Inc., Ashland, Kentucky; for Athletic
Scholarships    fund................................................................  6,500.00
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit; for the following funds:
Alumnae Council Birthday Greetings fund......................         25.00
Alumni Center fund................................................  1,000.00
Athletic Scholarships fund........................................  500.00
College  of  Engineering  fund..............................................   240.00
L. L. Laing   Fellowship   fund..............................................  2,000.00
L aw   School  fund..................................................................   250.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts fund............         90.00
School  of  M usic  fund........................................................   75.00
H. Marvin Pollard Medical Research Institute fund........         2,000.00
Radrick Farms Golf Course Gifts fund..........................      500.00
Vital Margin fund................................................    165.00
Council of Michigan Foundations, Grand Haven; for the
Business Administration Special fund................................  8,800.00
Tracie Fekete Estate; for the Tracie Fekete Medical Research
fund....................................................................  102,83 1.22
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn; for the following
funds:
A thletic  Scholarships  fund................................................  1,150.00
Business  School   fund..........................................................   245.00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund........             1,045.00
College  of  Engineering   fund..............................................   260.00
Ford Motor Company Asia Library fund........................     25,000.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts fund............         25.00
Ivor K. Mclvor Memorial fund........................................  100.00
Museum    of Art fund................................................  25.00
Radrick Farms Golf Course Gifts fund............................    500.00
University Musical Society fund......................................  325.00
Vital Margin fund................................................   490.00
WUOM      fund................................................     25.00
Gibbs Brothers Foundation, New York, New York; for the
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Scholarship
and   D iscretionary   fund......................................................  7,500.00
Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook, Illinois; for Athletic Scholarships fund................................................      5,000.00
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California; for the William and Flora Hewlett FoundationPopulation Studies Center fund........................................  50,000.00
Beulah W. Hildebrand Estate; for the Beulah W. Hildebrand
fu n d.....................................................................................  7 0,4 7 7.7 5
International Business Machines Corporation, Tarrytown,
New York; for the IBM Corporation-Engineering Faculty
Development fund................................................  50,000.00




OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


97


Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh; for the Forney
W.  Clem ent  M emorial  fund..............................................  5,879.58
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, New York; for the
Samuel H. Kress Foundation-Fellowship and Departm ental  G rant  fund..............................................................  12,500.00
Marinette Marine Corporation, Marinette, Wisconsin; for the
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Building
fu n d......................................................................................   5,000.00
Metropolitain Center for Far Eastern Art Studies, Ann Arbor;
for the Metropolitan Center for Far Eastern Art StudiesW hitm an   fund....................................................................   5,000.00
Michigan Eye-Bank, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Eye-Bank
fu n d......................................................................................   1 1,1 8 2.0 0
Maxine S. Midgley, Sarasota, Florida; for the Brain Research
fund-Center for Human Growth and Development........           5,045.00
National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, Inc.,
New York, New York; for the National Fund for Minority  Engineering  Students  fund............................................  11,853.00
National Foundation, White Plains, New York; for the March
of  Dimes-Rucknagel     fund................................................   10,500.00
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York;
for National Multiple Sclerosis Society funds................  13,893.75
Arthur Darby Nock Estate; for the Bonner Campbell Memorial  fund..............................................................................   8,333.33
Pfizer, Incorporated, Groton, Connecticut; for the Pfizer, Incorporated-Cardiovascular Research fund........................  6,500.00
Hubert Charles Phillips Estate; for the Hubert Charles
Phillips   fund......................................................................  136,000.00
Power Foundation, Ann Arbor; for the Power Foundation
Exchange   Scholarship    fund..............................................  8,322.44
Louise G. Raphael, Atlanta, Georgia; for the Theophile
Raphael, M.D. Research  fund..........................................  23,000.00
Rockwell Inernational Corporation Trust, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; for the following funds:
Rockwell International Corporation Graduate Fellowship
in   E ngineering  fund....................................................  26,000.00
Vital  M argin  fund..............................................................  50.00
G. D. Searle & Company, Chicago, Illinois; Immunopathology
Research Fellowship and Training fund............................  5,000.00
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana; for the Samuel D.,
Martha B. and Mabel I. Sledd Loan fund........................  5,849.11
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor; for the Psychopharmacology Research
fund......................................................................................  6,600.00
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey; for the
following funds:
Eye Center Ophthalmology Consolidation fund..............     10,000.00
U nrestricted   fund................................................................  50.00
V ital  M argin   fund.............................................................  100.00
WUOM      fund......................................................................  15.00
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey; for
the following funds:
M edical  Center  Library  fund............................................  5,000.00
Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Fellowship in Pharmacy
fu n d.........................................................................  3 7,5 0 0.0 0
Elaine P. Wehmeyer Estate; for the Lewis E. and Elaine
Prince  W ehm eyer  fund......................................................  321,000.00




98              OCTOBER MEETING, 1981
The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
Elizabeth A. Gow Estate. Weeden Tax Exempt Bond Trust
Units; American Telephone and Telegraph Company, E.
I. duPont de Nemours and Company, common stocks;
for the John L. and Elizabeth A. Gow Memorial fund  50,718.63
Mr. and Mrs. John G. Hill, Boulder, Colorado. Storage Technology Corporation, common stock; for the President's
fu n d.....................................................................................  1 0,6 7 5.0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Beahl T. Perrine, Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Raytheon
Company, common stock; for the Law School fund.... 12,993.76
Dorothy Pudrith, Detroit. Brooks and Perkins, Inc., common
stock; divided as follows:
Alumni  Center  fund..........................................................  5,899.75
Gifts  Pending  Designation  fund........................................  6,385.63
The following nonmonetary, noncash gifts were received:
Robert C. Clark, Tempe, Arizona. Pipe organ components; for
the School of Music
Patricia Cross, Ann Arbor. The Louis Paul Dessar painting
entitled: "Sheep Pastures," oil on canvas; for the Museum of Art
Grace Kachaturoff, West Bloomfield. Eleven books by various
authors; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn
Campus Library
Carl Kammeyer, Mesa, Arizona. Two books: The City of
Flint Grows Up, and Citizens Century; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Mary T. LaMore, Ann Arbor. Scrap steel, bronze and iron;
for the School of Art
Jean Marie Miscisin, Flint. A book entitled: Your Home,
Your Child's First School, by Jean Lukasavitz Miscisin;
for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Robert L. Quinn, Steubenville, Ohio. A booklet entitled: The
Lawyers Quadrangle, May 20, 1931; for the Law School
Thomas C. Richards, Plymouth. Eleven books by various
authors for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
Personnel IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
Actions
The following personnel actions were approved by the
Regents:
Appointments      NEW   APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Reed O. Dingman, Professor Emeritus, appointed to active status in the
Department of Surgery, Section of Plastic and Reconstructive
Surgery, September 1, 1981
Wendel W. Heers, M.A.Ed., reappointed Associate Dean of the School
of Art, for three-year term, July 1, 1981
John Griffiths Pedley, Ph.D., reappointed Director of the Kelsey Museum
of Archaeology, for five years, July 1, 1981
Alan R. Price, Ph.D., reappointed Assistant Vice-President for Research,
October 15, 1981




OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


99


James R. Taylor, Ph.D., reappointed Sebastian S. Kresge Professor of
Marketing, for three years, July 1, 1981
Martha Vicinus, Ph.D., appointed Professor of English, with tenure, September 1, 1981
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Daniel E. Atkins, Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
appointed Associate Dean, College of Engineering, October 1, 1981
to May 31, 1984
Benjamin G. Dennis, Professor of Sociology and Anthropology, appointed
Chairperson of the African-Afro-American Studies Program, UMFlint, July 1, 1981 to June 30, 1982
Jason L. Finkle, Director, Center for Population Planning, term extended
to December 31, 1981
H. Scott Fogler, Professor of Chemical Engineering, appointed Associate
Dean, College of Engineering, October 1, 1981 to May 31, 1984
Herbert J. Grossman, Professor of Pediatrics in the Department of
Neurology and Professor of Pediatric Neurology in the Department
of Psychiatry, without tenure, September 1, 1981
Don F. Haefner, Assistant Dean and Professor of Health Behavior,
appointed Acting Dean of the School of Public Health, January 1,
1982 to May 31, 1982
George B. Simmons, Director of Interdepartmental Program in Population Planning, term extended to December 31, 1981
Theodore J. St. Antoine, appointed as the first James E. and Sarah A.
Degan Professor of Law, September 1, 1981
The following committee appointments were approved:
Honorary Degrees, Committee on
Mr. David M. Yesh, UM-Dearborn, for a one-year term, September 1,
1981 through August 31, 1982, vice Mr. Ronald G. Douglas, UMFlint, term expired
Institute for Social Research, Executive Committee
Professor Saul H. Hymans, for a term beginnning immediately through
June 30, 1983, vice Professor Robert Holbrook, resigned
Professor Mayer N. Zald, for a term beginning immediately through
June 30, 1983, vice Professor W. Reynolds Farley, resigned
Michigan Historical Collections, Executive Committee
Dean John Gronvall, to succeed himself, for a five-year term, November 1,
1981 through October 31, 1986
Middle English Dictionary Council
Professor Howard D. Cameron, for a two-year term, September 1, 1981
through August 31, 1983, vice Professor Claiborne W. Thompson,
term expired
Professor James W. Downer, for a two-year term, September 1, 1981
through August 31, 1983, vice Professor William J. Gedney, term
expired
Professor Edna A. Coffin, for a term beginning immediately through
August 31, 1982, vice Professor Ludwig Koenen, resigned


Promotions, etc.
Committee
Appointments




100             OCTOBER MEETING, 1981
Personnel V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
Reports
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
Appointments      NEW   APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1981 unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Patty J. Baker, M.S.N., Nursing
Judith A. Bernhardt, M.S., Nursing
Paul M. Bronstein, Ph.D., Psychology, UM-Flint
Edward B. Coffey, M.S., Dentistry, August 25, 1981
David M. Cohen, Ph.D., Computer Science, UM-Flint
Theresa S. Foley, Ph.D., Nursing
Kristina D. Hansen, Ph.D., Mathematics, Literature, Science, and the
Arts
Nikolaos D. Katopodes, Ph.D., Civil Engineering, Engineering
Walter P. Lang, M.P.H., D.D.S., Dentistry, August 17, 1981
Kathleen N. Lavoie, Ph.D., Biology, UM-Flint
Helmut Maier, Ph.D., T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor,
Mathematics, Literature, Science, and the Arts
George Nastas, III, Ph.D., Marketing, UM-Flint
Festus O. Olorunniwo, Ph.D., Industrial and Systems Engineering, UMDearborn
Barry I. Samuels, M.D., Radiology, Medical School
Andrej Scedrov, Ph.D., T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor,
Mathematics, Literature, Science, and the Arts
Keerangudi R. Stinivasan, Ph.D., Chemistry, UM-Flint
Dan J. Swift, Ph.D., Psychology, Arts, Sciences, and Letters, UM-Dearborn
Ernest J. Wilson, III, Ph.D., Political Science
Instructor
Delores I. Garcia, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, July 1, 1981
Ned L. Kirsch, M.A., Ph.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
Medical School
Dana G. Kissner, M.D., Internal Medicine, August 1, 1981
Vijayalakshmy Patrick, M.B.B.S., Psychiatry, Medical School, August 31,
1981
James W. Plunkett, Ph.D., Psychiatry, Medical School, July 1, 1981
Randy S. Roth, Ph.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical
School
Sakthi P. Vadivel, M.S., Radiology, Medical School, August 1, 1981
Lecturer
Joseph M. DeLisa, S.M., Mathematics and Statistics, Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, UM-Dearborn
Ada T. Feldman, M.S., Biology, UM-Flint
Ronald T. Hansen, M.F.A., English Language and Literature, Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Russell Hille, Ph.D., Biological Chemistry, Medical School
Priti S. Lacy, Ph.D., Anatomy, Medical School, August 24, 1981
Phyllis Lassner, M.A., English Composition Board and English Language
and Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts
Joseph M. Lenz, Ph.D., English Language and Literature, Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Minu D. Sabet, M.D., Anatomy, Medical School




OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


101


Thomas L. Stober, M.B.A., Accounting, Business Administration
Ernest J. Szuch, M.S., Biology, UM-Flint
Gary C. Zeburn, A.M., English Language and Literature, Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Visiting Professor
Hi Ku Cho, M.S., Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences, Engineering,
August 1, 1981
Elsa Dehennin-Galle, M.A., Romance Languages, Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Joel S. Demski, Ph.D., Accounting, Business Administration
Masaru Ikei, M.A., Political Science, August 15, 1981
Tadeusz Jozefiak, D.hab., Mathematics, Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 1, 1981
James B. Lyke, Ed.D., Music
Seth T. McCoy, Music
George Mully, Diploma, Music, October 26, 1981
Mohamad Haji Salleh, Ph.D., Linguistics, Literature, Science, and the Arts
Vladimir Shlapentokh, Ph.D., Sociology, Literature, Science, and the Arts
Visiting Associate Professor
Glenn D. Allinger, Ph.D., Mathematics, Literature, Science, and the Arts
Barry Boys, Diploma, Theatre and Drama, Literature, Science, and the
Arts
Buma Fridman, Ph.D., Mathematics, UM-Flint
Takaaki Nishida, Ph.D., Mathematics, Literature, Science, and the Arts
Visiting Assistant Professor
Guy A. Battle, III, Ph.D., Mathematics, Literature, Science, and the Arts
J. Clayton Fant, Ph.D., Classical Studies
Martin Finger, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 15, 1981
Robert E. Grosse, Ph.D., International Business and Finance, Business
Administration
Joan H. Hollinger, J.D., Law
Gerald R. Mettraux, D.M.D., Dentistry, August 15, 1981
Hrushikesh N. Mhaskar, Ph.D., Mathematics, Literature, Science, and the
Arts
Marshall S. Poole, Ph.D., Communication, Literature, Science, and the
Arts
Visiting Instructor
Cynthia B. Herrup, M.A., History
Visiting Lecturer
David C. Distad, M.B.A., Finance, Business Administration
Lynbarbra Mahler, Ph.D., Theatre and Drama, Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Harrianne Mills, M.A., Classical Studies
Kenneth M. Monash, M.A., Education
Adjunct Professor
Leslie M. Werbel, Ph.D., Medicinal Chemistry, Pharmacy, July 1, 1981
Leonard Woodcock, Political Science, August 1, 1981
Adjunct Associate Professor
Leslie J. Fisher, Ph.D., Anatomy, Medical School, May 1, 1981




102


OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


Adjunct Assistant Professor
Joan C. Morris, Music
Adjunct Instructor
Thomas R. Fitzpatrick, B.Arch., Architecture, Architecture and Urban
Planning
Calvin C. Jen, M.Arch., Architecture, Architecture and Urban Planning
Susan K. Koory, M.S.A., Management, UM-Flint
Adjunct Lecturer
William M. Carbary, M.S., Management, UM-Dearborn
Muthulakshmi R. Iyer, M.A., Mathematics, UM-Flint
Bruce L. Miller, Ph.D., Health Care, UM-Flint
Jane A. Rosenson, B.M., Music
Jack M. Schluckeber, M.S., Political Science, UM-Flint
Rosalie R. Troester, M.A., English, UM-Flint
Eugene Wozniak, M.S., Division of Education, UM-Flint
Clinical Associate Professor
R. Donald Eward, M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
April 1, 1981
Clinical Assistant Professor
Richard E. Stiefler, M.D., Dermatology, Medical School, July 1, 1981
Hugh F. Walker, M.P.H., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, July 1, 1981
Clinical Instructor
Terry K. Abernathy, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 27, 1981
Steven R. Alspach, D.D.S., Dentistry
Anthony C. Carbajal, D.D.S., Dentistry
Gary L. Gambill, M.H.S.A., Internal Medicine, Surgery, Medical School,
August 1, 1981
Julia A. Hardy, M.D., Psychiatry, Medical School
Joseph H. Harvey, M.D., Psychiatry, Medical School, July 1, 1981
Kenneth M. Holt, Ph.D., Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1981
Stephanie A. Hunt, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, July 1, 1981
Daniel G. Johnson, M.S., Surgery, Medical School, August 3, 1981
Neil F. Jones, B.M.BC.H., Surgery, Medical School, August 1, 1981
Daniel J. Kennedy, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 27, 1981
Michael G. Landis, B.S., Pharmacy, July 1, 1981
Ronald R. Marston, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 27, 1981
James K. McFadden, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 23, 1981
Kenneth J. Rhee, M.D., Surgery, Medical School, August 1, 1981
Vernon E. Rife, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 27, 1981
Angela M. Rogers, D.M.D., Dentistry
Suzan E. Sauer, B.S., Dental Hygiene, Dentistry
Bryan P. Shumaker, M.D., Surgery, Medical School
Steven M. Sieraski, D.D.S., Dentistry
Scott R. Smith, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 27, 1981
Roberta C. Taylor, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 31, 1981
May Ying Tow, B.S., Pharmacy, July 1, 1981
Teresa S. Youngblood, Associate, Dental Hygiene, Dentistry




OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


103


CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF
INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1981 unless otherwise indicated
A. Ariav Albala, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry,
Medical School
Beatriz E. Amendola, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Radiology,
Medical School
John A. Anderson, from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate
Professor of Pediatrics, Medical School
Phillip F. Augustyn, from Instructor to Clinical Instructor of Ophthalmology, Medical School, July 1, 1981
Carol L. Austad, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor
of Psychiatry, Medical School
Eunice A. Bell, from Adjunct Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor
of Nursing, UM-Flint, August 10, 1981
Caroline E. Blane, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Radiology,
Medical School
Karen S. Borda, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Radiology,
Medical School
Linda W. Brinn, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Mathematics
and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Michael H. Burnstein, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant
Professor, Psychiatry, Medical School
Robert A. Cooke, from Assistant Professor of Psychology and Assistant
Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering to Assistant
Professor of Psychology
Theodore T. Curtis, from Chairman of the Department of Sociology/
Anthropology and Assistant Professor of Sociology to Assistant Professor of Sociology, July 1, 1981
Joe G. Eisley, from Associate Dean and Professor, with tenure, to
Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure
Peggy J. Foss, from Lecturer to Instructor of Education, UM-Dearborn
Shiro Fujita, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of
Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School
Jay K. Harness, from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate
Professor of Surgery, Medical School
John H. Hageman, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor
of Surgery, Medical School
Charles N. Hellie, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor
of Dentistry
Virginia G. Hieber, from Assistant Professor to Assistant Research Scientist, July 1, 1981
Thomas M. Horner, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry,
Medical School
Ethel N. Jackson, from Assistant Professor to Adjunct Assistant Professor
of Microbiology, Medical School
Nancy K. Janz, Assistant Professor of Nursing to Clinical Nursing Specialist, University Hospital, June 1, 1980
Donald G. Kewman, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School
Jolita L. Kisielius, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor in Marketing,
Business Administration
Michael E. Krause, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor
of Dentistry, August 10, 1981
Edward E. Lawler, III, from Professor, without tenure, to Adjunct Professor of Psychology, Literature, Science, and the Arts
Richard L. Lichtenstein, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Medical
Care Organization, Public Health


Promotions, etc.




104             OCTOBER MEETING, 1981
Michael R. Liepman, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry
and Family Practice, Medical School
Robert J. MacGregor, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Surgery,
Medical School
Mangaladevi Menon, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics
and Gynecology, Medical School
K. H. Padmanabhan, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Management, UM-Dearborn
Lorraine D. Perkins, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, July 1, 1981
Joey Blaine Reagan, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Communication, Literature, Science, and the Arts
Richard W. Roehl, from Chairman of the Department of Social Sciences
and Professor of Economics, with tenure, to Professor of Economics,
with tenure
Elinor B. Rosenberg, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School
Satwant K. Samra, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, Medical School
Patricia J. Sharpe, from Assistant Professor in English Language and
Literature to Editor, Law School
William E. Strodel, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Surgery,
Medical School
Neil A. Swanson, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Dermatology,
Medical School
Lois M. Verbrugge, from Assistant Professor of Biostatistics to Associate
Research Scientist in Population Planning, Public Health
Joel M. Weinberg, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine, Medical School
Helen Weingarten, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Social Work
Stephen L. White, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Philosophy,
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Edward J. Williams, from Adjunct Lecturer in Extension Service to
Adjunct Lecturer in Industrial and Systems Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Alan B. Wood, from Instructor in Internal Medicine and Surgery to
Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1981
Resignations         TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Dean
Glendon F. Drake, Arts and Sciences and English, UM-Flint, August 3,
1981
Professor
Douglas F. Adams, Radiology, Medical School, August 31, 1981
Joseph Brodsky, Slavic Languages and Literatures, May 31, 1981
Glenn W. Kindt, Surgery, Medical School, July 31, 1981
Raymond I. Page, English Language and Literature, May 1, 1981
Walter R. Reitman, Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1981
Roy D. Schmickel, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Human
Genetics, Medical School, September 21, 1981
Associate Professor
Gwendolyn G. Baker, Education, August 31, 1981
Hatem A. Elayat, Engineering, UM-Dearborn, June 30, 1981
David A. Mouw, Physiology, Medical School, August 31, 1981
Mostafa R. Reda, Engineering, UM-Dearborn, June 30, 1981




OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


105


Judith S. Reitman, Psychology, Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
1981
Joanne S. Richards, Pathology, Medical School, August 31, 1981
Assistant Professor
Mark B. Bromberg, Neurology, Medical School, August 31, 1981
Irene K. Conners, Theatre and Drama, Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 1981
Susan L. Doty, Dentistry, August 8, 1981
Philip E. Hendrix, Business Administration, July 31, 1981
Timothy J. Kriewall, Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, September 30, 1981
Patricia C. McCloud, Nursing, May 31, 1981
Denise M. Rousseau, Psychology, Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1981
Deborah S. Vandenbroek, Nursing, May 31, 1981
Instructor
Margaret E. Gainer, Nursing, September 20, 1981
Phillip L. Potter, Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, August 31,
1981
Lecturer
Doris Kittendorf, Arts, Sciences, and Letters, UM-Dearborn, June 30,
1981
Thomas C. Smith, Pharmacology, Medical School, June 30, 1981
Clinical Assistant Professor
Joel M. Zahler, Dentistry, August 8, 1981
Clinical Instructor
John G. Clinthorne, Dentistry, August 7, 1981
Eli John Inga, Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, June 30, 1981
Two off-campus assignments, two sabbatical leaves, four Leaves of
leaves of absence without salary, two extended sick leaves, two Absence
retirement furloughs, and one scholarly activity leave were reported to the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
There were no retirement memoirs submitted to the Regents
this month.
VII. DEATHS
There were no deaths reported to the Regents this month.
VIII. DEGREES                                                     Degree Lists
Amended
On the recommendation of the proper faculty in each case,
the Regents approved the following amendments to the degree
lists:




106


OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


School of Education
Master of Arts, August 1981
add:
Susan Janet Gibbs Davis, A.B., Purdue University
Dennis S. Manning, B.S., Western Michigan University
College of Engineering
Master of Science (Industrial and Operations Engineering),
August 1981
delete:
Jeffrey Albert Lebow, B.S.E., Industrial and Operations Engineering
Bachelor of Science (Chemical Engineering), August 1981
add:
Bao Chan Ha, cum laude
Bachelor of Science (Computer Engineering), August 1981
delete:
Michael James Peregoy
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Master of Arts (English Language and Literature), August
1981
delete:
Jennifer Marie Sanyour, B.A., Rutgers University
Master of Arts (Psychology), August 1981
delete:
Yvette Ellen Yatchmink, A.B., Yale University
Law School
Juris Doctor, May 1981
add:
Mark J. Gonzalez, B.A., Oakland University
Juris Doctor, magna cum laude, May 1981
correction to show:
Jeffrey Sean Lehman, B.A., Cornell University
Alan Robert Madry, A.B.
Donna Frances Winquist, A.B.
Master of Laws (LL.M.), May 1981
add:
Atsushi Gondo, LL.B., University of Tokyo
Takashi Maruta, Hogakushi (LL.B.) Kwansei Gakuin University
Anne-Ruth Moltmann, Staatsexamen, University of Tuebingen
Christina Mary Murray, B.A., University of Stellenbosch; LL.B.,
University of Stellenbosch
Chandrasekharan Pillai, Bachelor of Laws, University of Delhi;
Master of Laws, University of Delhi
James Gregory Richards, B.A., University of Toronto; LL.B., Queen's
University




OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


107


College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, May 1981
add:
Corinne A. Coen with Distinction and Highest Honors in American
Culture
Nancy Romanie Hanson with Highest Distinction and High Honors
in Scandinavian Studies
Carolyn Sue Heyman
Elizabeth Ann Nederlander
delete:
Corinne A. Coen with Distinction and High Honors in American
Culture
Nancy Romanie Hanson with Highest Distinction and High Honors
in Scandinavian
Bachelor of Science, May 1981
add:
Kirk Michael Dorazio with High Honors in Physics
Donald Thomas Morelli with Distinction and High Honors in Physics
Rene Ashwin Ong with Highest Distinction and High Honors in
Physics
delete:
Kirk Michael Dorazio with Honors in Physics
Donald Thomas Morelli with Distinction and Honors in Physics
Rene Ashwin Ong with Highest Distinction and Honors in Physics
Bachelor in General Studies, May 1981
add:
John Paul Morse
Bachelor of Arts, August 1981
add:
Lisa Ann Altimore
Lori Susan Bizer
Brenda Joy Massey Blase
Paul Kevin Creason
John Christian Hardie
Dennis Alan Rosinski
Steven E. Ruskin
Bachelor of Science, August 1981
add:
Daniel Alan Polansky with High Distinction
delete:
Daniel Alan Polansky
Bachelor in General Studies, August 1981
add:
Kevin Patrick Quigley
The Regents confirmed the degrees conferred at the August Degrees
1981 Commencement exercises.                                   Confirmed




108


OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Financial   The Regents received the financial report for the year ending
Report June 30, 1981.
Investments,  The Regents received a schedule of investments for the year
Schedule of ending June 30, 1981.
Construction  Vice-President Brinkerhoff commented that an original draft
Management,
RHP of a proposed construction management agreement had been
transmitted to the Regents early in June. Subsequently there were
a number of changes and corrections which were incorporated in
the agreement and sent to the Board again for review. The major
part of the discussions with Barton Malow/CMI concerned the
assignment of individuals, the specific definition of the work to
be performed by them, the responsibilities to be assumed by the
University as the owner and the retained architect as the major
professional service contractor on the project. The negotiations
were satisfactorily concluded with respect to the quality of the
personnel expected to perform various functions, and at a value
less than anticipated for this project.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated that Regent Baker had
expressed concern that the contract dealt only with the $210
million project and not the $285 million total project, therefore
it was not complete. Vice-President Brinkerhoff said that issue
was open for future determination by the Board. He stated that
he believed the negotiations were effective and complete.
Indicating that the construction management agreement was
brought to the Regents for their information and comments,
President Shapiro said the document would be executed unless
there were some very substantial exception to it.
Regent Baker indicated that he objected to the agreement.
He thanked Mr. Brinkerhoff for his cooperation in making some
changes in the document, but he was critical of the process. He
said he wanted to establish the history of the contract and the
nature of his objections. There was an item in the agenda reporting non-competitive purchases over a certain amount, so apparently there is a University policy covering non-competitive
issuance of contracts. He then read the following statement.
Regent Baker,   Today the University broke ground for its new hospital. All of us
Statement re: take satisfaction in that event which has been in planning for so many
Construction
Management years.
Unfortunately, today the Regents are called to vote upon award of
the "key contract" in the hospital construction process known as the
construction management contract.
In my judgment, the award of the hospital's construction management contract to Barton-Malow/CM represents a significant compromise
of the University's policy of open, competitive bidding on a project which
in the long run may cost a total of $285,000,000 or more.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


109


This contract was negotiated by the University with Barton-Malow/
CM without competitive bids and may bring that joint venture $8,200,000
or more before the hospital is completed.
Please understand I make no judgment as to the professional competence of Barton-Malow/CM, and I have no knowledge that would
indicate their superintendence of the work for the University hospital
will not be done in a professional and competent manner. 
Nevertheless, the public record should carry the history of the award
of this contract as indicated below:
1. Because my lifetime work experience is in the construction industry, early in the hospital planning process I expressed concern that
a fully professional and competitive structure be established to insure the
planning and construction activity on this huge project would be open
to all on competitive basis, including architects, other professionals, contractors, joint ventures, construction workers, suppliers and others.
2. This concern was formally effected by the Regents in the April
1979 Regents Meeting. I quote from the official minutes, page 277:
"Regent Baker then moved to authorize the Hospital Executive
Board to search and retain the most qualified consultant available
to determine among all possible alternatives, the best contract
letting method with the specific condition that the consultant not be
a candidate as the contractor. Regent Roach seconded the motion
and it was adopted."
The intent of the motion was specific. Those who made the recommendation on hospital planning and construction strategy would not be permitted to be the contractor (or construction manager) of the project in
order to insure complete objectivity in the recommendation to the Board
of Regents and thus protect the interests of the people of Michigan.
3. A contract to determine the hospital's planning and contracting
strategy was awarded to Barton-Malow/CM by the administration in the
Spring of 1980 and reported to the Regents at the May Regents meeting
of 1980 as referred on page 642 where Regent Dunn said
"Regent Dunn expressed concern about the construction consultant
appointment. He said that in an area as important as the hospital
is to the University and the State, this item should have been presented to the Regents before a final decision was made."
4. A separate meeting was called at my request of Barton-Malow/CM
and University officials to discuss, among other matters, the importance
of developing a competitive contracting strategy. I noted at that time
to the participants that Barton-Malow/CM was not to be a candidate as
manager and a contractor under the terms of the April 1979 Regents
motion.
5. On June 17, 1980 the Board of Regents charged the construction
consultant, Barton-Malow/CM to develop and recommend a specific
contracting strategy for the Universiy replacement hospital program. That
document was delivered to the Regents in May 1981 by Barton-Malow/
CM.
6. It is obvious that Barton-Malow/CM, in undertaking its charge
from the Regents, became familiar with all planning, with the University
individuals involved and frequently appeared before the Regents to report
progress.
7. Over that entire period of planning on several other occasions
during Regents meetings I emphasized the importance of providing full
access and free competition so that all parties interested in the replacement might have equal access on a competitive basis as contractor or as
construction manager.
8. My concern for freedom and competition in this award process
was overridden by a vote of the Board of Regents earlier in 1981 when
the Regents authorized the administration to enter into negotiations with




110


OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


Barton-Malow/CM for award of the construction management contract
as a single source bidder.
9. It is my opinion that some contractors and joint venturers who
believed in the basic fairness expressed in the April 1979 Regents resolution were thus excluded from the opportunity to bid on the contract
management of the hospital.
In summary, the successful contractor, Barton-Malow/CM, knew
at the time of its acceptance of the planning strategy contract that it was
ineligible for the construction management contract; Barton-Malow/CM
and the Regents were reminded on several occasions of Barton-Malow/
CM's ineligibility for the final contract, yet Barton-Malow/CM prepared
the final criteria for contract strategy and construction method (and indirectly the award of the construction management contract) and now is
to be awarded a $8,200,000 contract without competitive bids. It is
perhaps the most frustrating experience of my tenure on this board to
foresee this event several years ago, then attempt to prevent that event
from occurring by the procedure outlined in April 1979 Regents resolution, and finally have the circumstances described come together in such
a manner as to compromise this important process.
Regent Roach remarked that Regent Baker had mentioned
these concerns before. The apparent confusion over the use of
the terms "construction manager" and "contractor" as if they
were interchangeable, is neither appropriate nor is it fair. Barton
Malow/CMI will provide professional services as advisers, they
will not actually build any part of the project as a contractor.
Regent Roach said that he has had considerable experience with
the legal aspects of construction contracts and he was not aware
of any professional service contract that was bid competitively.
He indicated that the motion mentioned in Regent Baker's statement, which he had seconded, clearly distinguished between construction manager and construction contractor. He felt that there
was a distinct difference in the terminology. As for the $8.2
million contract, one should remember that this is a "not to
exceed" figure. The contract covers direct salary and payroll
expenses plus an overhead multiple. The amount of the multiple
is one of the most competitive in the industry today. He felt that
the contract was entirely appropriate and it would be a great setback for the University if the project did not proceed in its
current path.
Regent Baker commented that the intent of his original
motion was to separate the person who developed the contracting
strategy and planning from the person who actually did the work.
In his view, somehow this process changed from one function
to both functions. The probability of a company entering into
competition because they felt they would be disqualified in the
contract management case was very real. Regent Baker indicated
that somewhere along the line, the persons who originally took
responsibility were able by their competence, ability, or because
they were familiar with the project to become the party of the
final project.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


111


In clarification of the selection process, Vice President
Brinkerhoff stated that a nationwide search for a construction
consultant had been conducted and many of the well-known
construction management organizations throughout the United
States had applied. The screening process was judiciously and
carefully conducted ending with the choice of Barton Malow/
CMI. Vice-President Brinkerhoff said that he did not understand
that the construction consultant could not be the construction
manager because in his view, the manager had an entirely different function than that of a contractor.
Regent Roach then said that in view of the dispute, perhaps
it would be advisable to approve the contract by a motion in
order to resolve the issue. He then moved to approve awarding
the Construction Management Contract for the Replacement
Hospital Project to Barton Malow/CMI. Regent Brown
seconded the motion and it was adopted with Regent Baker
voting no and Regent Dunn abstaining from the vote.
The proposed revisions to the bylaws, rules, and regulations
of the medical staff of the University of Michigan which were
deferred in September were now addressed by Dr. David
Dickinson, Chief of Clinical Affairs at University Hospital. Dr.
Dickinson commented that the revisions were all in the nature
of housekeeping amendments designed to bring the bylaws into
conformity with current practice except for the article which
deals with the selection and term of office of the Chief of Clinical
Affairs.
In response to the question Regent Roach raised at the
September meeting, Dr. Dickinson said the medical staff feels
very strongly that their chief ought to be a respected clinician
with strong affinities to the staff in order to serve as advocate for
the staff in administrative circles and other groups. The longer
the incumbent stays in office the greater the possibility that those
relationships will erode. The chief of clinical affairs expects to
reenter academic life, but even one term disrupts academic development and productivity. Therefore, the longer a person is in
office, the more difficult it is to return to his/her basic discipline.
Consequently, the bylaw was changed to stipulate a three-year
term. This would also be an aid in recruiting the very best people
to assume the responsibility because they would be assured that
they would be able to do their job and return to their academic
field at the conclusion of the term.
Dr. Dickinson then reviewed the criteria to become a member
of the courtesy staff.
Discussion followed concerning courtesy staff members'
ability to admit patients. Dr. Dickinson responded that it was


Bylaws, Rules &
Regulations
revisions, re:
Medical Staff




112


OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


limited to a certain extent, but there was no intent to restrict
admitting privileges on the part of the courtesy staff when there
were beds available.
Regent Roach then moved to approve the proposed amendments to the Bylaws, Rules and Regulations of the Medical Staff
of the University of Michigan. Regent Brown seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Renovations  Regent Nederlander moved to approve the revised budget
and to authorize awarding a contract to the low bidder, Walter
L. Couse and Company, of Detroit, for the Otorhinolaryngology
renovations on the Sixth Level of the Outpatient Building.
Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Transfer of  Regent Nederlander moved authorization to transfer two small
Property parcels of University-owned land to the City of Ann Arbor to
provide right-of-way in connection with the widening of Glen
Avenue. Regent Dunn seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Capital Outlay  Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the capital outlay reRequest, 1982-83 quests for 1982-83. He indicated that no new projects had been
added to last year's list, but some projects were deleted, particularly those on the medical campus for which funds had been
requested, which were no longer considered appropriate or timely
because of the Replacement Hospital Project. He corrected an
error in the total request for the Flint campus, changing the
figure to $7,460,000.
Chancellor Nelson indicated that because of the indefinite
delay in the construction of a classroom/laboratory building,
priorities had been shifted to repairing the roof of the Mott
Memorial Building which had reached the critical stage.
Responding to Regent Roach's question concerning priority
items, President Shapiro stated that both the Engineering I and
Chemistry Buildings were top priority items.
Regent Roach cautioned about committing funds to renovating the West Engineering Building until it had been determined
that the old building was worth saving.
Regent Brown moved to approve the Capital Outlay requests
for 1982-83 for Ann Arbor, Dearborn and Flint. Regent Dunn
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Radiation  Vice-President Frye commented upon the recommendation
Departmetpoi to establish a Department of Radiation Therapy within the
Medical School which would separate this field from the Department of Radiology. A modest administrative cost would be expected initially and later would be supported by patient care
revenue.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


113


Regent Baker said that there should be a financial analysis
undertaken before adding any new program and asked if this
had been done.
President Shapiro responded that the program currently
exists, therefore, it is not a new program. The reorganization of
this program would be an attempt to generate a flourishing,
worthwhile activity from one that is important, but not distinguished at the present time.
Regent Roach moved to approve the establishment of a
Department of Radiation Therapy within the Medical School.
Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The Public Comments session was omitted because there had  Public Comments
RHP, Groundbeen no requests to appear before the Regents. The Regents then  breaking
departed from the Fleming Administration Building to attend
the groundbreaking ceremonies for the replacement hospital.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1981
The Regents reconvened at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Nederlander, Roach, Varner, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins
and Nelson and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Overberger,
Johnson, Acting Vice-President Jacobson, and Vice-President
and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regent Power was
absent.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated that Mr. John Roszak, Audit Report
of Price Waterhouse and Company, would review the external
audit report.
Mr. Roszak commented that in addition to the audit services
provided to the University of Michigan through the middle of
fiscal year 1981, they also provided some assistance to the hospital in connection with financial projections for the replacement
hospital. To meet the recent audit requirements of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, Price Waterhouse also was auditing the television station at Flint and the radio station at Ann
Arbor. He then referred to the Price Waterhouse management
report and responses and said he would be happy to respond to
any questions the Regents might have.
There was a question concerning the billing practices of the
Medical Service Plan and a query concerning the recommendation of establishing a regental audit committee. Mr. Roszak said
that Price Waterhouse had simply recommended consideration
of an audit committee. Since there had not been further comment, he assumed the Regents felt there was no need for this.




114


OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


Robotics Center
Established
(CRIM)
Physical Therapy
Program


Regents Baker and Nederlander indicated that historically
the Regents met as a committee of the whole on all issues and
did not consider it necessary to establish a separate committee.
Regent Roach agreed with this concept, but felt that certain
aspects of an audit report would be inappropriate to discuss
publicly. Such items as sensitive personnel matters, or audit
scheduling could be discussed on a committee level and still be
in compliance with the Open Meetings Act. He said that it is
only in that context that he thought further consideration should
be given to the matter.
Regent Baker indicated that the Open Meetings Act provided
a closed meeting clause for such issues as sensitive audits or
alleged wrong-doing, therefore, he felt a separate audit committee was not appropriate.
Vice-President Frye stated that he was pleased to recommend
the establishment of a Center for Robotics and Integrated Manufacturing (CRIM) in the College of Engineering.
Dean James Duderstadt, of the College of Engineering,
commented that the focus of the center would be robotics and
the integration of engineering, manufacturing and management
functions in industrial settings. An administrative structure was
in place and funds have been acquired to begin operation of the
center. Dean Duderstadt further described the recruitment of
faculty and the coordinating and integrating efforts of five departments and forty faculty members. He said the College of
Engineering has the will, the desire, and ability to establish a
world class research center.
After further discussion, Regent Dunn moved to approve the
establishment of a Center for Robotics and Integrated Manufacturing (CRIM). Regent Nederlander seconded the motion
and it was adopted.
Vice-President Frye commented briefly on the status of the
review of the Physical Therapy Program. He said there had been
a public hearing in September, all private discussion requested
essentially had been completed, and numerous letters on the
subject had been reviewed. There were two dominate factors to
be resolved; the unquestioned and unmet need for physical therapists in the State and in the nation which would be aggravated
by closing the department, and the question of priorities and
intellectual environment within the Medical School that led to
the recommendation to discontinue the program. The administration is trying to solve the problem of continuing to produce
physical therapists, but at the same time, respond to the situation
at the Medical School. The options seem to be threefold; acceptance of the recommendation to close the department, reject the




OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


115


recommendation and continue as at the present time with whatever budgetary implications there are; or look at possible options
of relocation in an environment in which the program can
flourish at a reasonable cost and above all, to continue to train
physical therapists. The third proposal is being thoroughly explored and hopefully, a report would be presented to the Regents
in November with final action in December.
Regent Baker then commented upon the brick and precast
cement panels that were seen on Thursday. He said the Regents
had not been polled, but he did not believe that any of the three
choices met with regental approval.
President Shapiro commented that the architect's recommendation was to produce as closely as possible the brick used for
the Taubman Medical Library which was different still from the
panels erected on the site. If there were strong objections to this,
he would like to hear of them at this point because selection of
the brick had to be made immediately.
Regent Roach suggested that most decisions as to color of
brick, interior colors, and so forth would be made by the administration. If the Regents were interested in a particular aspect in
the selection process, perhaps a list could be devised so that
construction would not be delayed.
Regent Roach then moved that the salary of the President of
The University of Michigan be increased by 5.5% to $84,347.
Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was unanimously
adopted.
Regent Roach remarked that he wished the President's salary
could be increased more, and that he was 100% confident that
the Regents made the correct choice in selecting Harold Shapiro
as President of the University.
The above transactions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of September totaled $626.97.
The meeting was adjourned to meet on November 19 and 20,
1981.


RHP, Brick
and Precast
Cement Panels


President's Salary
Increased


Gb?




RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary




116


OCTOBER MEETING, 1981


INDEX
Appointments, 98, 100; committee, 99
Audit report, 113
Baker, Regent, statement re construction management, 108
Budget, 1982-83, 93; Dearborn and Flint, 94
Capital Outlay request, 1982-83, 112
Dearborn: budget, 1982-83, 94
Degrees: lists amended, 105; confirmed, 107
Financial report, 93, 108
Flint: budget, 1982-83, 94
Gifts, 96
Health insurance (HMO plan), 94
Hospital: replacement hospital project, brick and precast cement panels,
115; construction management, 108; ground-breaking ceremony, 113;
Regent Baker's statement, 108; site visit, 93; status report, 95
Investments, schedule of, 108
Leaves of absence, 105
Medical Staff, bylaws, rules and regulations revisions, 111
Physical Therapy program, 114
President's salary increased, 115
Promotions, 99, 103
Property, 112
Public Comments, 113
Radiation Therapy, Department of, 112
Renovations, 112
Resignations, 104
Robotics, Center for (CRIM), established, 114




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1981
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Dunn, Nederlander,
Power, Roach, Varner, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and
Nelson and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Overberger,
Johnson, Acting Vice-President Jacobson and Vice-President
and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regents Baker and
Brown were absent.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order.
The Michigan Student Assembly annual report was presented to the Regents by Jonathan Feiger, President, Steve
Hochberg, Treasurer, and Amy Hartman, Vice President.
Mr. Hochberg indicated that during the fiscal year 1980-81
MSA, by implementing a more efficient operating procedure, was
able to eliminate many inefficiencies which substantially reduced
personnel costs. This resulted in a year-end surplus balance.
The organization plans to maintain approximately a 4% security
margin for operating expenses and reallocating all remaining
surplus funds to next year's budget.
Regent Power commended the officers of MSA for their fiscal
responsibility and queried Mr. Hochberg with respect to the
allocation process.
Mr. Hochberg explained how the budget priorities committee reviews applications requesting resources and allocates funds
according to priority and MSA's monthly budget.
Ms. Hartman spoke briefly on the major areas currently being
reviewed. These include student services and student advocacy in
areas such as student legal services, health service, minority
student services, international student services, the security
issue, and student financial aid.
Mr. Feiger then distributed copies of the course evaluation
project which MSA had funded. He indicated that cooperation
by the faculty and support staff had helped to improve the
project. MSA presently was working to make it more reliable
and to bring more colleges into the project.
Vice-President Frye reported briefly on the status of the
review of the recommendation to close the physical therapy pro

MSA Annual
Report
Physical Therapy
Program


117




118


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


gram. The recommendation followed an internal review by the
Medical School which was in the process of studying ways to
retrench as a means of achieving better support of the core
units of the school. The recommendation was judged by the
Department of Physical Medicine to be a relatively low priority
item in the overall mission of the Medical School. The cost associated with continuing the program and the significant increments required to improve the quality of the program and
eventually to achieve accreditation would increase the burden
on the school.
Keeping in mind the Medical School's priorities and its need
to economize and the undisputed need for physical therapists in
the State of Michigan and the nation, the administration has
been considering principally two possibilities: relocating the
program from the Medical School to the Department of Physical
Education or closing the program on the Ann Arbor campus and
transferring it to the Flint campus. The administration is reviewing each of these proposals carefully with emphasis on such
factors as economics, the need for physical therapists in the
state, sustaining a high quality program if the program should be
retained, and the impact upon the unit which might receive the
program.
Two other options open for consideration are the rejection
of the recommendation to close the program and continuing it
in its present environment or accepting the recommendation and
closing the program.
At the present time, no decision has been reached as to what
course the University will take. Assessment of the options will
continue, and it is hoped that a recommendation will be presented to the Regents in December for discussion and with a
possible recommendation for action, otherwise action will be
deferred.
In response to a question, President Shapiro indicated that
there would be ample opportunity for those wishing to address
the issue to do so.
Referring to the Replacement Hospital Project, Regent
Power commented that the University has embarked upon the
largest health delivery project in which this University will most
likely be involved. Physical therapy and physical medicine are
integral parts of a total medical delivery service and Regent
Power hoped that the physical therapy issue would be considered in that context. She suggested that it might be appropriate
for the Regents themselves to suggest aspects important for a
gradual refocusing of the role and mission of the Medical School.
President Shapiro responded that the administration was
aware of this, but indicated he did not feel this was the proper




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


119


occasion for a formal re-examination of the role and mission
of the Medical School.
Speaking of the mail the Regents have received on the
subject, Regent Roach commented that many correspondents
suggested increasing enrollment which, in their view, would
solve the fiscal problems. In reality, however, tuition covers less
than 50% of the costs of the program, therefore, increasing student numbers would only add to the problem. Regent Roach
said that as he understood the problem, if the length of the
program could not be extended perhaps to the master's degree
level, then the program could not adequately perform its mission in its present environment. He asked what would be the
dollar amount required to upgrade the program.
Vice-President Frye responded that to bring the program up
to the minimum quality level and perhaps for accreditation requirements in the future, the resources needed would range from
$75,000 to $150,000. Realistically it would probably require
$150,000.
Regents Dunn and Power were concerned about adequate
responses to public inquiry. Regent Dunn expressed the view
that, with issues as serious as this, there should be communication beyond the initial inquiry to indicate developments as they
occur. Regent Power suggested the administration undertake to
develop adequate means for responding to the increase in the
volume of public inquiry as the process of reshaping the University is continued.
President Shapiro stated that it was normal practice at the
University to respond to all inquiries including those forwarded
by the Board. He indicated that it would be appropriate to
apprise the public of developments as they occur on all large
issues and the University would do so.
Mr. James Lesch, Director of the Division of Research  Research
Development and Administration, presented the research ex-  Report"
penditure report for fiscal 1981. He indicated that the report was
a positive one, but current activities at the federal budget level
make it very difficult to draw logical conclusions as to what
this will mean in terms of research support in general and in
particular at The University of Michigan. This report only covers
sponsored research support. There are also significant numbers
of faculty involved in scholarly activity, including research, who
do not have access to these funds and are supported by their
regular academic salaries and their own initiative. Mr. Lesch
indicated that in all probability there would be reductions in
applied medical science, particularly in training grant support
and in social science support. The University is monitoring
activities at the National Institutes of Health and the National




120


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


Science Foundation, the University's two largest sponsors, and
there is uncertainty about NASA support. Another concern has
to do with the University's High Energy Physics Program. The
University has a very large investment in this program by the
Department of Energy and it is a significant one in terms of its
research impact and importance in the Physics Department.
Mr. Lesch then presented and reviewed charts of research
activity over the last ten years.
There were questions relating to the University's position in
the nation with respect to research support, including support
from industry, and how the University ranked in terms of total
available dollars.
Mr. Lesch responded that for expenditures in science and
engineering, The University of Michigan ranked fourth and in
the social sciences the University was first in the nation. A report
will be presented to the Regents in the next few months showing
in more detail data on organized research which is any research
by a unit that is separately budgeted as opposed to departmental
research where a faculty member is fully supported by the
general funds for the academic year and devotes a certain
amount of time for research.
Budget Status,  Vice-President Frye spoke briefly on the status of the budget
1982-83 for 1982-83. The 1982-83 budget request which had been
approved by the Regents in October had been submitted to the
state. Dr. Frye listed the major elements of the budget as: a
compensation program that would make up at least a small bit
of the ground lost to inflation during the past two years; a
substantial rate increase anticipated for utilities; a nonsalary
program increase for operating costs; ongoing commitments that
have been made for various activities of the schools and colleges
plus one or two small items such as the cost of opening new
space. These factors add up to approximately $28 million as a
minimum cost for next year. This would not include provisions
to meet the normal special needs of the schools and colleges
nor would it provide support for the high priority needs that
have been identified, including enhancing the University's research environment and stronger support of graduate students.
Adding these objectives to the above figure would require
approximately a total of $33 million to meet the needs of the
University.
Looking at the situation realistically, and considering such
things as the impact on the University of the state's economic
problems, the likelihood of a significant decrease in enrollment
next year requiring substantial fee increases, and a considerable
reduction in federal financial aid for students, the fiscal prospects
are not encouraging. The gap between the minimum budget




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


121


needs and available resources could range from $2 million to
$10 million.
In order to reconcile the difference it would be necessary to
reduce expenditure expectations by not meeting the goal of a
decent salary program, and by increasing tuition rates. He emphasized that the administration continues to work toward
achieving special recognition on the part of the State of Michigan
for the University's problems in order to bring about an increase
in appropriations.
Vice-President Frye indicated that there is only one other
way to help solve the problem and that is by a further program
of internal reallocation or retrenchment, minimally in the range
of $5-6 million. Factors leading to this judgment are: (1) there
is a strong possibility of another executive order of as much as
4%, (2) the continuing uncertainty about the state's economy
which poses problems not only for 1982-83 but also for the
longer term, (3) the possible negative impact of federal fiscal
policies on state resources, University research support and financial aid, and (4) the increasing uncertainties about the level of
enrollment the University would be able to sustain as the financial environment changes and as the demographic picture in the
State of Michigan changes.
Steps have already been initiated to accommodate this
retrenchment which include the further review of administrative
units for major cuts such as those made last year, consideration
of reactivating the priority fund tax, and reviewing some of the
major budgetary units that have not previously been reviewed
including schools and colleges, institutes, etc., to determine the
possibility of major budget reductions or even to consider
closure.
The ensuing discussion involved the means by which funds
would be made available to meet budgetary requirements if the
large-scale reviews of the vice presidential level units have not
been completed to make the base changes by July 1, how the
priority fund tax functions, and the lack of differential treatment between units in the last reductions and reallocations.
Chancellor Jenkins, in reviewing the status of the Dearborn  Budget, UM 
budget, indicated that by the end of the 1981-82 academic year Dearborn
the budget for the Dearborn campus would be in balance. This
was accomplished by a $500,000 base budget reduction and by
other economies. A serious consideration is the uncertainty as
to whether a supplementary 3% could be located as an increment to the extremely inadequate salary program which of
necessity had to be adopted. This would depend on Dearborn's
role and support of the extension program changeover and unforeseen revenue losses. Preliminary projections of revenue




122


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


needs for 1982-83 include a 10% salary program and a 12 -15% tuition increase. Chancellor Jenkins indicated that a
smaller salary program would be very unfortunate and unsatisfactory at this time.
Regent Roach mentioned that according to the Dearborn
student newspaper and student government, the students seem
to appreciate the need for the tuition increase. Chancellor
Jenkins commented that the students and faculty have been kept
informed of the fiscal problems and realize the need for a sizeable tuition increase to maintain quality programs and quality
faculty.
Budget,   Chancellor Nelson commented that the prospects for the
Flint campus are similar to Ann Arbor and Dearborn. There is
one major new cost facing the campus besides those expected
for utilities and that is the opening of the new physical education building. With a reasonable state appropriation and a 12 -15% tuition increase, a satisfactory salary program and revenue
to cover the costs of the new building would be possible.
Chancellor Nelson indicated that the administration at Flint
is in the process of contemplating long-range plans for base
budget cuts should that be necessary.
President Shapiro indicated that, although the problems differ from campus to campus, all three campuses are undergoing
serious planning for base budget reductions to compensate for
the declining State support.
Vice-President Frye reviewed the process by which possible
sources of savings are identified and the appointment of special
committees to review this data which then leads to a final
determination.
In response to Regent Power's question concerning the
means by which problems are being adequately shared and
discussed with faculty and staff, President Shapiro commented
that this represents a major concern of the executive officers.
The administration is trying to encourage the schools and colleges to take a significant role in this process as realistic within
their own faculties. The administration continues to develop
ideas about written communictaions as well as other ways to
keep everyone informed. While the administration realizes it
must continue to develop new ways of communicating with
the University community, there is some frustration because it
appears that the written communications that are distributed
are not read. There are several representative committees with
whom the administration meets and shares information such as
SACUA, the Budget Priorities Committee and the Committee
on the Economic Status of the Faculty.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


123


I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of October 15 and 16, 1981
were approved with certain specified changes.
1I. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on investment transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnellabor relations and the Replacement Hospital Project.
Vice-President Overberger filed a monthly report on grants
and contracts.
Acting Vice-President Jacobson filed his monthly report on
the Office of University Relations and Development.
IlI. GIFTS AND GRANTS                                                   Gifts
Adria Laboratories, Inc., Columbus, Ohio; for the Adria
Laboratories  Biochemical fund.........................................$  5,898.50
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for
American Cancer Society funds..........................................  41,982.00
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.; for the
American Chemical Society funds.................................... 60,000.00
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois; for the Amoco
Foundation Good Teaching Awards funds........................  7,500.00
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for the Arthritis
Foundation   funds.............................................................  5,791.69
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn; for the
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter funds................  8,999.98
Kevin M. Beattie, London, England; for the Paul G. Kauper
Professorship   fund..............................................................  5,000.00
Ella Mae Blieden, Michigan City, Indiana; for the Law
School  fund..........................................................................  5,000.00
Bumperline, Inc., Harbor City, California; for the Betty and
Jerry  Belsky  Scholarship  fund............................................  10,000.00
Citibank, N.A., New York, New York; for the following
funds:
Business School Associates Program fund.................  5,000.00
V ital  M argin   fund.............................................................  15.00
Edna McConnell Clark Foundation, New York, New York;
for the Edna McConnell Clark-Higashi fund.................. 25,063.00
Consumers Power Company, Jackson; for the Consumers
Power Company-Power Systems fund..................... 30,000.00
Corning Glass Works Foundation, Corning, New York; for
the Minority Engineering Program fund..........................  5,000.00
Deere & Company, Moline, Illinois; for the Applied Mechanics and Engineering Science fund................................  8,000.00
Charles B. and Charles R. DeVlieg Foundation, Royal Oak;
for the DeVlieg Fellowship and Scholarship in Engineerin g   fu n d...................................................................20,000.00
Domino's Pizza, Inc., Ann Arbor; for the Power Center
Hearing Improvement System fund.................................. 13,750.00
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York; for the
Eastman Kodak Fellowship in Mechanical Engineering
fu n d.....................................................................................  10,0 0 0.0 0




124              NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981
Ernst & Whinney Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio; for the Ernst
& Whinney Professorship in Accounting fund................  14,210.00
Ole Evinrude Foundation, Waukegan, Illinois; for the Ole
Evinrude Foundation Fellowship fund............................  6,000.00
Fairchild Technology Group, Palo Alto, California; for the
Solid State Industrial Affiliates Program fund................  10,000.00
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut; for the
following funds:
General Electric Fellowship in Market Economics fund       5,000.00
Interim Survey Sponsors fund............................................  5,000.00
Mechanical Engineering Fellowship fund........................  13,100.00
Elizabeth A. Gow Estate; for the John L. and Elizabeth A.
G ow   fund............................................................................  18,933.5 1
Samuel D. Harris Endowment Fund, Chicago, Illinois; for the
Samuel D. Harris Pedodontic Research fund..................  5,000.00
Herrick Foundation, Detroit; for the Alumni Center fund.... 50,000.00
Honda Research of America, Torrance, California; for the
Honda Motorcycle Tire Dynamometer fund..................  10,000.00
Shu Ting Liu Hsia Estate; for the Levi Barbour Oriental Girls
Scholarship   fund...............................................................   8,000.00
Frederick G. L. Huetwell, Detroit; for the following funds:
Frederick G. L. Huetwell Scholarship fund....................  6,800.00
Hypertension  Research  fund............................................  2,800.00
Ophthalmological  Research  fund......................................  1,000.00
Shady  Trails  Building  fund................................................  300.00
Urological Research-Lapides fund....................................  1,000.00
INCO, Limited, New York, New York; for the International
Nickel Company Fellowship fund........................   10,500.00
Jackson University of Michigan Alumnae Club, Jackson;
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship fund................  5,000.00
Siegel W. Judd, Grand Rapids; for the Eye Center Ophthalm ology  Consolidation   fund..............................................  10,689.19
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for the
Junior Year in Freiburg Scholarship fund....................... 12,000.00
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh; for the Forney
W.  Clement  M emorial  fund..............................................  11,759.16
Mallery Charitable Trust, Flint; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Development fund.....................   10,000.00
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Grand Rapids; for
the March of Dimes-Schmickel fund................................ 14,376.00
Bernice H. McClure Estate; for the following funds:
Plastic Surgery Cleft Palate fund......................... 25,000.00
University of Michigan Cancer Research Institute fund     25,000.00
McGregor Fund, Detroit; for the Japanese Studies-Business
A dm inistration   fund..........................................................  50,000.00
Michigan Eye-Bank, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Eye-Bank
fund......................................................................................  22,364.00
Pharmacia, Inc., Piscataway, New Jersey; for the Simpson
M emorial  Institute-Special  fund...................................  10,000.00
Research Fund of the American Otological Society, Inc.,
Bronx, New York; for the American Otological Society
fu n d...................................................................  5,3 9 8.5 0
Rockefeller Foundation, New     York, New    York; for the
Rockefeller Foundation-Covington fund............................  23,500.00
Raymond Schoder Charitable Foundation, Battle Creek; for
the Schoder Foundation Cleft Palate Clinic fund............  5,000.00
Searle Family Trust, Chicago, Illinois; for the John G. Searle
Fellowship in Clinical Pharmacology fund......................  33,200.00




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


125


Stauffer Chemical Company, San Francisco, California; for
the Institute of Environmental and Industrial Health
Project  fund........................................................................  8,000.00
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo; for the Upjohn Company-Ho
fund......................................................................................  7,000.00
Harry Herman Utes, Olympia, Washington; for the Dr. Carey
P. McCord Memorial Loan fund......................................  5,000.00
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor; for the WarnerLambert Company-Fox   fund........................................  10,000.00
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey; for
the following funds:
B usiness  School  fund..........................................................  100.00
M atthaei  Botanical  Gardens  fund....................................  22.00
Pharmacology Department-LaDu fund............................ 10,000.00
Mr. and Mrs. Victor B. Warriner, Fort Worth, Texas; for the
following funds:
A thletic  Scholarships  fund................................................  3,500.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts fund............  2,500.00
The following monetary, non-cash gifts were received:
Ronald and Deborah Freedman, Ann Arbor. Hitachi, Ltd.,
common stock; for the Population Studies Center fund  5,040.50
Mr. and Mrs. James A. Masterson, Casper, Wyoming. Lear
Petroleum Corporation, common stock; for Athletic
Scholarships  fund................................................................  11,049.38
The following non-monetary, non-cash gifts were received:
Aget Manufacturing Company, Adrian. A dust collection system; for the
Student Theatre Arts Program
H. J. Anderson, Grand Rapids. A Lincoln Collection, consisting of 101
pamphlets and 4 hardcover books; for the William L. Clements
Library
John Bowditch, III, Ann Arbor. One volume of Deutsches Gesangbuch,
(1865); for the William L. Clements Library
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Briggs, Elk Rapids. A Civil War manuscript,
consisting of an autographed letter from A. B. Gripp to his brother
Jessey; for the William L. Clements Library
Richard K. Brown, Ann Arbor. A TEAC magnetic tape recorder; for the
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Grant F. Burns, Flint. A book entitled: Bicycles & Bicycling, by Schultz
and Schultz; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Cast Specialties, Inc., Warrensville Heights, Ohio. Spare parts for a
Unimate 2000A Robot; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn
Campus School of Engineering
Virgil Cope, Flint. Eighteen books; for The University of MichiganFlint Campus Library
John C. Dann, Dexter. Twenty books, dated from 1643 to 1891; for the
William L. Clements Library
Mr. and Mrs. Rupert Davey, Union Lake. A cactus plant; for the
Botanical Gardens
Delco Electronics Division of General Motors Corporation, Kokomo,
Indiana. A  1978 Buick Regal Coupe (experimental vehicle); for
the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering.
Digital Equipment Corporation, Maynard, Massachusetts. Five LSI
computer kits and related miscellaneous items; for the Department
of Aerospace Engineering
David Emerson, Las Vegas, Nevada. A book entitled: Cosmetics; for
The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library




126


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


Wyman Finley, Kendallville, Indiana. Two folio volumes: Boston Recorder, and Journals of the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Beginning the 28th Day of November, 1776
and Ending the Second Day of October, 1781; for the William L.
Clements Library
Mr. and Mrs. Matthew G. Forrest, Califon, New Jersey. The three volume
set of The Modern System of Naval Architecture (1865), the two
volume set of Souvenirs De Marine (1886), and a Portfolio of ten
reproductions, illustrating the battle of Sole Bay, 1672; for The
University Library
Betty Gauthier, Dearborn. Eleven potted plants, and a five-foot macrame
hanging planter; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus
Library
Peter R. Gluck, Flint. Fifteen books; for The University of MichiganFlint Campus Library
Harris SAI, Inc., Ann Arbor. A TI-59 programmable calculator, a TI
printer/power supply, and applied statistics and real estate/investment modules; for the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California. A Hewlett-Packard,
Model 45 computer system and 168 pieces of related equipment; for
the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
William A. Hiltner, Ann Arbor. Volumes 1-86 of Astronomy and Astrophysics (1969-1980), and Volumes 1-26 of Astronomy and Astrophysics Abstracts (1969-1979); for The University Library
Sally Jean Jaeger, Flint. A book entitled: A Manual on KF, AALL Publication Series, No. 11, by Patricia Piper and Cecilia Hing-Ling Kwan;
for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
John Alan Lehman, Ann Arbor. A Heathkit stereo FM tuner; for the
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Gertrude B. Lewis, Ann Arbor. A volume entitled: An Universal Etymological English Dictionary, by N. Bailey, 28th Edition, 1800; for the
William L. Clements Library
Margaret F. Maxwell, Tucson, Arizona. A typescript of a speech to be
delivered by Colonel Theodore Roosevelt at Denver, Colorado,
Tuesday, October 24, 1916; for the William L. Clements Library
Jean Marie L. Miscisin, Flint. Two books: American Literature, and
Standard Algebra; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus
Library
John D. Mohler, Ann Arbor. A Blayman bass clarinet stand, and an
Anderson bass clarinet stand; for the School of Music
William Phillips, Ann Arbor. A volume entitled: The History of American
Funeral Directing, by Habenstein and Lamers; for the William L.
Clements Library
Paul I. Pressel, Vestal, New York. Five pieces of used electrical test equipment; for the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
John Quick, Detroit. A replica of a Samurai suit of armor; for the Center
for Japanese Studies
Rudolfo S. Sanchez, Chicago, Illinois. A book entitled: Philippines, by
Richard Chesnoff; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus
Library
Gerald L. Schulz, Granville, Ohio. A 1969 Buick LeSabre, four-door
hardtop automobile; for the Alumni Association's Camp Michigania
Samuel R. Solomon, Ann Arbor. Three books: Acts and Laws of His
Majesty's English Colony of Connecticut, Premium History, History
of the United States, and Hale's Premium History; and three
pamphlets on the governors of the states; for the William L.
Clements Library




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


127


W. Randolph Taylor, Ann Arbor. An 18th century manuscript account
book (1778-1790's); for the William L. Clements Library
Tech-S, Inc., Livonia. Approximately 698 items, consisting of miscellaneous electronic components and assemblies; for the Department of
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Sharron L. Tichenor, Ann Arbor. A twelve foot Butterfly sailboat, a set
of sails and a trailer; for the Alumni Association's Camp Michigania
Kiyoshi Tsuji, Kalamazoo. 166 miscellaneous issues of scientific journals;
for the University Library
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor. A Technicon Auto Analyzer, and
a Function Motor Pump; for the Department of Environmental and
Industrial Health
Frank Wyman, Ann Arbor. A book entitled: The Study of International
Politics; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
President Shapiro announced that a grant of $2 million had
just been received from Alfred Taubman to initiate a program in
American Institutions. It would be primarily an undergraduate
program dealing with course work in American economic and
social institutions. It is also anticipated that, associated with the
program, would be a fellowship program involving training for
government, industry, and labor representatives. These fellows
would come to the campus for a brief period as part of the
ongoing program. It is expected that the program would start
in the fall of 1982. More details will be brought to the Regents
at a later date.
Regent Power expressed the deep gratitude of the Board of
Regents for this gift and suggested that an appropriate letter be
sent by the President to Mr. Taubman on behalf of the Board
of Regents.
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS                                             Personnel
Actions
The following personnel actions were approved by the
Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                    Appointments
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Eflective on dates indicated
William Ballis, Professor Emeritus, appointed to active status in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Winter term, 1982
A. Benjamin Handler, Professor Emeritus of Planning, appointed to
conduct research work in the National Policy Center on Housing
and Living Arrangements for Older Americans, July 1, 1981 to
June 30, 1982
Lloyd L. Kempe, Professor Emeritus of Chemical Engineering, appointed
to teach biochemical engineering, September 1, 1981 to April 30, 1982
William G. Merhab, Professor Emeritus of Education, appointed Senior
Faculty Associate for the Arabic Language Bilingual Materials
Development Center, October 1, 1981 to September 30, 1982
William B. Palmer, Professor Emeritus, appointed faculty counselor in the
Department of Economics, September 1, 1981 to April 30, 1982
James D. Prendergast, Professor Emeritus of Art and History of Art,
appointed to teach art, Winter term, 1982




128


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


Promotions, etc.


Leon Cass Terry, M.D., Ph.D., appointed Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure, September 1, 1981
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Sylvester E. Berki, Chairman of the Department of Medical Care Organization, expiration of term, June 30, 1983
Robert N. Grosse, Chairman of the Department of Health Planning and
Administration, expiration of term, June 30, 1982
Irwin M. Rosenstock, Chairman of the Department of Health Behavior
and Health Education, expiration of term, June 30, 1983
David F. Striffler, Chairman of the Department of Community Health
Programs, expiration of term, June 30, 1983
Charles H. Tilly, Professor of History, and Sociology, and Director of the
Center for Research on Social Organization, also appointed the
Theodore Mi. N4ewcomb College Professorship in Social Science, in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, November, 1981
Martinus J. G. Veltman, Professor of Physics, also appointed to the John
D. MacArthur Endowed Chair, November, 1981
The Regents approved the establishment of the named college professorship-The Theodore M. Newcomb Professorship
in Social Science and the appointment of Charles Tilly, Professor
of History and Sociology to that professorship.
The Regents approved the establishment of an endowed
chair in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts to be
named the John D. MacArthur Chair and approved the appointment of Martinus J. G. Veltman, Professor of Physics, to that
Chair.


T. M. Newcomb
Professorship
Established
J. D. MacArthur
Professorship
Established


Leaves of  The Regents approved extensions of leaves of absence for
Absence John M. Armstrong, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering;
Daniel J. Weintraub, Professor of Psychology; William
Wrangham, Assistant Professor of Anthropology; and Louis V.
Zuck, Associate Professor of Linguistics, UM-Dearborn.
Henry Russel  The Regents approved the appointment of Emmett N. Leith,
Appointed Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Chief
Scientist at the Environmental Research Institute of Michigan,
as the Henry Russel Lecturer for 1982.


Committee
Appointments


The following committee appointments were approved:
American Institutions Lectureship and Professorship, Committee On
Professor Thomas Green, for a one year term, July 1, 1981 through
June 30, 1982, vice Professor Joseph Vining, term expired
Professor Donald Regan, for a two-year term, July 1, 1981 through
June 30, 1982, vice Professor Francis A. Allen, term expired
Professor Jack L. Walker, Jr., for a two-year term, July 1, 1981 through
June 30, 1983, vice Professor Angus Campbell, deceased




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


129


School of Dentistry, Executive Committee
Professor Frederick G. Burgett, for a three-year term, November 1,
1981 to October 31, 1984, vice Professor Raul G. Caffesse, term
expired
Professor John F. Corcoran, for a three-year term, November 1, 1981 to
October 31, 1984, vice Professor Daniel T. Snyder, term expired
School of Education Executive Committee
Professor David Angus, for Winter Term, 1982, vice Professor W. Robert
Dixon, on leave
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, Executive Board
Professor Matthew  J. Kluger, for a term  beginning immediately to
August 31, 1983, vice Professor Michael M. Martin, resigned
Mental Health Research Institute, Advisory Committee
Professor Raymond W. Ruddon, for a three-year term, July 1, 1981 to
June 30, 1984, vice Dr. Bert N. LaDu, term expired
Friends of the Michigan Historical Collections, Executive Committee
Mrs. Gertrude V. Huebner, to succeed herself, for a three-year term,
July 1, 1981 to June 30, 1984
Mr. Charles R. Sligh, for a three-year term, July 1, 1981 to June 30, 1984,
vice Mr. Hobart Taylor, Jr., deceased
Mr. A. B. Smith, Jr., to succeed himself, for a three-year term, July 1,
1981 to June 30, 1984
Mr. Neil Staebler, to succeed himself, for a three-year term, July 1,
1981 to June 30, 1984
Mrs. Nancy Quirk Williams, to succeed herself, for a three-year term,
July 1, 1981 to June 30, 1984
Mary Barton Henderson House, Board of Governors
Susan B. Bonfield, for a three-year term, July 1, 1981 to June 30, 1984,
vice Susan A. Davis, term expired
Susan B. Knopf, for a three-year term, July 1, 1981 to June 30, 1984,
vice Lynne Prakken Carbeck, term expired
Michigan League, Board of Governors
Ms. Helen Demster, for a two-year term, May 1, 1981 to April 30, 1983,
vice Ms. Phoebe Rowe Burt, term expired
Ms. Patricia Norton More, to succeed herself, for a two-year term,
May 1, 1981 to April 30, 1983
College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, Executive Committee
Dr. Larry King, for the Winter term, 1982, vice Dr. Anita Hochster, on
leave
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS                                               Personnel Reports
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                     Appointments
Effective September 1, 1981 unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Farooq Pervaiz Agha, M.B.B.S., Radiology, Medical School




130


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


Andrew Flint, M.D., Pathology, Medical School
Robert M. Groves, Ph.D., Sociology
L. Douglass King, M.D., Psychiatry, Medical School
Donald A. Kroll, M.D., Anesthesiology, Medical School, October 1, 1981
Elizabeth S. McAuliffe, M.S., Nursing
Hylan C. Moises, Ph.D., Physiology, Medical School, November 1, 1981
Elizabeth M. Nolan, M.S., Nursing, July 1, 1981
Seyed Mohammad Shahidehpour, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering, Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Arland D. Thornton, Ph.D., Sociology
Instructor
Barry R. Dix, M.D., Internal Medicine, October 1, 1981
Dianne L. Fisher, M.S., Nursing
Kenneth B. Gantz, M.D., Internal Medicine, August 21, 1981
Connie K. Kerr, M.S.N., Nursing
Lorraine R. Kloosterman, M.S.N., Nursing
James A. Mulvaney, B.S., Radiological Sciences, Medical School
Dwarakanath G. Rao, M.D., Psychiatry, Medical School, July 1, 1981
Barbara J. Wranesh, B.S., Nursing
Adjunct Professor
William D. Becher, Ph.D., Electrical and Computer Engineering,
Engineering
Adjunct Associate Professor
Stanley R. Robinson, Ph.D., Electrical and Computer Engineering,
Engineering
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Joan E. Ceglarek, M.P.H., Nursing
Hwa Sung Na, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Robert G. Reynolds, Ph.D., Anthropology
Janet M. Westhoff, M.S.N., Nursing, UM-Flint
Adjunct Instructor
Robert M. Overhiser, Jr., B.A., Architecture
Robin N. Widgery, Ph.D., Management, UM-Flint
Adjunct Lecturer
Felix E. Beltran, R.N., Health Care and Human Services, UM-Flint
Kumbla Panduranga Bhakta, M.B.B.S., Health Care and Human Services,
UM-Flint
Richard D. Burns, B.S., Health Care and Human Services, UM-Flint
Michael Charney, M.A., Mathematics, UM-Flint
Julia A. Crawford, M.M., Music, UM-Flint
Joanne I. Cull, R.N., Health Care and Human Services, UM-Flint
Dorothy L. Dillard-Brown, B.A.S., Health Care and Human Services,
UM-Flint
Horace W. Gilmore, J.D., Law
James W. Goss, J.D., Law
Agnes B. Hagan, B.A., Health Care and Human Services, UM-Flint
Lecturer
Dennis R. Koop, Ph.D., Biological Chemistry, June 15, 1981
Andrzej G. Nalecz, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics, Engineering
Warren C. Whatley, B.A., Economics




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


131


Visiting Professor
Adrien Albert, D.SC., Medicinal Chemistry, Pharmacy, September 15,
1981
Andre Watts, Diploma, Music, October 1, 1981
Visiting Associate Professor
Susan W. Herring, Ph.D., Division of Biological Sciences, Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 15, 1981
Visiting Assistant Professor
Matti Anniko, M.D., Otorhinolaryngology, Kresge Hearing Research
Institute, September 15, 1981
Kenneth W. Baird, M.F.A., Art
Frederick W. Call, Ph.D., Mathematics, Literature, Science, and the Arts
John Cremona, D.Phil., Mathematics, Literature, Science, and the Arts
Christoph Eichenberger, D.M.D., Dentistry, October 15, 1981
Ronald Miller, Ph.D., Education
Visiting Lecturer
Martha W. Baldwin, M.A., Classical Studies
John E. Carlson, M.M., Music
William S. Fisher, M.A., Composition, UM-Dearborn
Oleg Tretiakoff, Diploma, Nuclear Engineering, Engineering
Dennis W. Hahn, R.N., Health Care and Human Services, UM-Flint
Soo Young Huang, M.D., Health Care and Human Services, UM-Flint
Charles W. Joiner, J.D., Law
Gun Young Kim, M.D., Health Care and Human Services, UM-Flint
Gary C. MacKersie, A.D.N., Health Care and Human Services, UMFlint
Elvia L. McGee, B.A., Health Care and Human Services, UM-Flint
Gordon R. Metzger, R.N., Health Care and Human Services, UM-Flint
George G. Miller, Ph.D., Industrial Operations, Engineering
Mary M. Miller, B.A.S., Health Care and Human Services, UM-Flint
Prakash N. Mishra, Ph.D., Professional Development in Engineering,
Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Djong-Gie Oei, Ph.D., Chemistry, UM-Dearborn
David E. Ojeda, M.D., Health Care and Human Services, UM-Flint
Venkata P. Subbarao Puttagunta, M.B.B.S., Health Care and Human
Services, UM-Flint
Narraharisetty Rao, M.B.B.S., Health Care and Human Services, UMFlint
Edelbert G. Rodgers, Ph.D., African-Afro-American Studies, UM-Flint
Celso Samaniego, M.D., Health Care and Human Services, UM-Flint
James H. Santala, R.N., Health Care and Human Services, UM-Flint
Julie A. Seiter, Ph.D., Biology, UM-Dearborn
Evey Simon, M.M., Music Theory, UM-Dearborn
Diane M. Soubly, J.D., Composition, Arts, Sciences, and Letters, UMDearborn
Barbara I. Sprague, R.N., Health Care and Human Services, UM-Flint
Howard L. Stickney, B.A., Health Care and Human Services, UM-Flint
Clarence C. Straham, Ph.D., Education, UM-Flint
Surya Rao Thota, M.B.B.S., Health Care and Human Services, UM-Flint
Cheryl A. West, M.Ed., Composition, UM-Dearborn
Patricia Wheatley, B.S., Education
Clinical Professor
Ernst A. Rodin, M.D., Neurology, Medical School




132


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


Clinical Associate Professor
Harold F. Morris, M.S., Dentistry
Clinical Assistant Professor
D'Anne M. Fachnie, M.D., Dermatology, Medical School, July 1, 1981
William H. Pfeffer, M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
May 1, 1981
Gary Sasaki, M.S., Dentistry, September 16, 1981
Thomas R. Spooner, M.D., Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School
Clinical Instructor
Michael I. Casher, M.D., Psychiatry, Medical School
Paul A. Diez, B.S., Pharmacy, July 1, 1981
Constance J. Doyle, M.D., Internal Medicine, August 1, 1981
Thomas G. Eiden, B.S., Pharmacy, July 1, 1981
Dennis D. Hickstein, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1981
Lowell W. Joy, B.S., Pharmacy, July 1, 1981
Andrea B. Knab, B.S., Pharmacy, July 1, 1981
Ray H. Littleton, M.D., Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1981
Nancy A. Mason, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, July 1, 1981
John K. Morris, M.D., Surgery, Medical School, October 1, 1981
Thomas J. O'Keefe, M.D., Surgery, Medical School, October 1, 1981
Ernest J. Sorini, M.D., Surgery, Medical School, June 1, 1981
Gary L. Stoner, B.S., Pharmacy, July 1, 1981
Thomas A. Voltattorni, B.S., Pharmacy, July 1, 1981
omotlons, etc. CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1981 unless otherwise indicated
Mihir Bhattacharya, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Finance
Anne L. Caples, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Nursing
Don B. Chaffin, from Chairman of Industrial and Operations Engineering
to Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering with tenure
Sarah O. Conly, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Philosophy
Taco J. Homburg, from Visiting Lecturer to Lecturer, English Language
Institute
J. Timothy Johnson, from Assistant Professor to Assistant Research Scientist in Population Planning
Meshach H. Newman, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant
Professor, Surgery, August 1, 1981
Adrian Margaret Smith Piper, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of
Philosophy
Peter A. Reilly, Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of
Pharmacy, July 1, 1981
Resignations    TERMINATION OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS
Effective on dates indicated
Anne L. Caples, Assistant Professor of Nursing, September 30, 1981
Peter Clarke, Chairman and Professor of Communication, with tenure,
October 31, 1981
Robert E. Cropsey, Instructor of Surgery, August 31, 1981
Paula K. Horvatich, Assistant Professor of Health Professions Education,
November 11, 1981
Daniel G. Johnson, Clinical Instructor of Surgery, September 30, 1981




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


133


Levi A. Nwaguuku, Associate Professor of American Studies and History,
with tenure, May 31, 1981
Joseph V. Tyler, Assistant Professor of Spanish, UM-Flint, May 31, 1981
Three off-campus assignments, six sabbatical leaves, one      Leaves of
scholarly activity leave; three extended sick leaves, and two     Absence
leaves of absence without salary were reported to the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Secretary Kennedy reported the retirement of two faculty
members. The following memoirs were adopted:
MARJORIE M. MURPHY, Professor of Nutrition in the School of   M. M. Murphy
Nursing, retired from active faculty status as of June 1, 1981 after a  Retirement
most productive career as a dietitian and teacher.
Professor Murphy completed her undergraduate studies at the
University of Minnesota in 1942. She completed her Dietetic Internship
at the University of Minnesota in 1943 and received her MPH from
The University of Michigan in 1950 and her certificate in Gerontology
from The University of Michigan in 1978.
From June, 1943 to January, 1945, Professor Murphy served as a
therapeutic and teaching dietitian at People's Hospital in Akron, Ohio
and St. Paul, Minnesota. From 1945 to 1947, she completed a tour of
duty as a United States Army Dietitian in the Pacific Theater. She was
employed by the Veteran's Administration Hospital in New York City
from April, 1947 to August, 1949 and worked for the Kentucky State
Department of Health from 1951 to 1956.
In 1956, Professor Murphy came to The University of Michigan as
an Instructor of Nutrition. She was promoted to Assistant Professor in
1960, Associate Professor in 1962 and Professor in 1968. During her
tenure at The University of Michigan, Professor Murphy provided leadership in developing the nutrition content of our curriculum and assisted
faculty in the application of nutrition knowledge as an important component of total health care. Among her many community contributions,
the most noteworthy has been provision of the nutrition services to the
Turner Geriatric Clinic.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for her
dedicated service by naming her Professor Emeritus of Nursing.
HARVEY WILLIAM      SCHIELD, JR., Professor of Dentistry, has  H. W. Schield
retired from active faculty status as of July 31, 1981, after 29 years of Retirement
service as an outstanding teacher and administrator at the University of
Michigan School of Dentistry.
Born in Detroit in 1925, Dr. Schield served in World War II with the
44th infantry regimental combat team which landed at Normandy on
D-Day. Among the many service awards he received was the Bronze Star
for gallantry in action.
In 1949 he earned the B.A. degree from Albion College and in 1952
the D.D.S. degree from the University of Michigan School of Dentistry.
He received the M.S. degree in operative dentistry at the U-M in 1956.
Dr. Schield began his outstanding teaching career at the School of
Dentistry in 1952 as clinical instructor and by 1969 had been named
professor and co-chairperson of the preclinical area of the dentistry program. He served as head of the area from 1977 until his retirement.
From 1954 until 1969, he maintained a private dental practice in Ann
Arbor in addition to teaching.
In his position as head of the preclinical area, he carried the major
responsibility for introducing the basic technics of restorative dentistry




134


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


to freshman and sophomore students. They paid tribute to his personal
influence and outstanding teaching abilities by choosing him Instructor of
the Year on four different occasions.
During his career, he was active in various professional dental
organizations, including the Michigan Dental Association, the Washtenaw
District Dental Society, and Omicron Kappa Upsilon, dental honor
society, and was a member of other organizations.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his
dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
VII. DEATHS
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
VIII. DEGREES
ADedree L     On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the
Regents approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Master of Arts, December, 1977
Economics
delete:
Farzin Yazdanfar, A.B., National University of Iran
Master of Arts, December, 1977
Applied Economics
add:
Farzin Yazdanfar, A.B., National University of Iran
Master of Arts, August, 1978
Near Eastern Studies
correct to show:
Kamal Kamel Abdelhamid, B.A., Ain Shams University, Egypt; A.M.,
Eastern Michigan University
Master of Arts, August, 1981
Education
add:
Terrance Allen Matthews, B.S., Central Michigan University
Engineering
add:
Jeffrey Albert LeBow, B.S.E. (Indus.&Oper.E.)
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Master of Architecture, August 20, 1978
add:
Robin Gail Guenther with distinction
Master of Architecture, May 1, 1981
add:
Peter John Vyverberg, B.S.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


135


College of Engineering (Mechanical Engineering)
Bachelor of Science, August 21, 1981
correct to show:
Cynthia Lee Smith, cum laude
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering
add:
Ronald Christopher Zaryczny
Law School
Juris Doctor, May 16, 1981
correct to show:
Thomas Charles Clinton, A.B., Juris Doctor cum laude
Gwen Thayer Johnson, A.B., Juris Doctor magna cum laude
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bachelor of Science, December 20, 1980
add:
Mindy Ann Goldberg
Bachelor of Arts, May 1, 1981
Near Eastern and North African Studies
correct to show:
Steven Heydemnann with High Distinction
Bachelor of Arts, August 21, 1981
add:
Cynthia Sue Leven
Terrance William Peck
The University of Michigan-Dearborn
School of Management
Bachelor of Science in Administration, April 26, 1980
add:
Elena A Rondi
Bachelor of Arts, April 27, 1981
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
add:
Nancy Ann Allen
Leonard Young
Bachelor in General Studies, April 27, 1981
delete:
David Della Mora
Bachelor of Science, April 27, 1981
correct to show:
James Robert Doyle with Distinction
add:
Shamiran Yagho Golani




136


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


School of Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Engineering
(Engineering Mathematics), April 27, 1981
correct to show:
Daniel Gerard Smyth with Distinction
School of Management
Bachelor of Science in Administration, April 27, 1981
delete:
Candace Sue Clevenger
correct to show:
Cheryl L. Blunden with High Distinction
Deborah Marie Johnson with High Distinction
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Bachelor of Arts, August 31, 1981
add:
Michael Joseph Forster with Distinction
School of Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Engineering, August 31, 1981
(Industrial and Systems Engineering)
correct to show:
Sandra Rose Kawiecki
School of Management
Bachelor of Science, August 31, 1981
add:
Frances Elaine McKinney
Debora Ann Mattes
Charles Moceri
Cynthia A. Morgan
Bachelor of Business Administration, August 31, 1981
add:
Sara Katherine Magoulick with high Distinction
Barbara Grace Kohler-Bain
Mark Gerard Terry
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Bachelor of Arts, August 31, 1981
add:
Rosemarie Gazzarato
Donna Tamialis
The University of Michigan-Flint
School of Nursing
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (B.S.N.), August 21, 1981
delete:
Ann A. Adams
Doctoral    The Regents approved the list of doctoral degree candidates
Candidates List  e
ipproved   as recommended by the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies for the December 1981 Commencement exercises.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


137


IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the detailed operating
budgets for 1981-82 for all three campuses. A summary of the
designated fund auxiliary and the expendable restricted budgets
were included in the reports.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated that the format for
the Ann Arbor campus had been revised in order to present more
clearly the summary of activities of year-to-year activities for
the salary/nonsalary components of the major elements within
the University.
Discussion followed concerning the change in accounting
procedures and the impact upon the University of the decreasing
state and federal support in recent years.
The Regents then heard comments from the following individuals on the topics indicated: Geoffrey Neithercut, a Flint
City Councilman and Robert Edwards, a resident of Flint, on the
Court Street property; Dwight Newman, President of the local
AFSCME Union, and Arthur Anderson, bargaining chairperson
of the local chapter, on a personnel problem; Leslie Minye, former student, on a problem in the Dental School; Jamie Moeller
and Margaret Talmers, budget committee representative and vice
president of LSA student government respectively on the
"smaller and better" University policy; Hugh Giles, President of
the Michigan American Federation of Teachers, and Barbara
Joos, a graduate teaching assistant, on the Graduate Employee
Organization.
Following a brief recess, the Regents heard comments from
the following members of the Senate Advisory Committee
on University Affairs (SACUA): Thomas Senior, Professor of
Electrical and Computer Engineering and liaison to the Research Policies Committee, who spoke on the research environment at the University. Ronald Bishop, Professor of Internal
Medicine and liaison to the Academic Affairs Committee, who
spoke on the need to clarify the Regents' Guidelines for Discontinuance of Academic Programs. Mary Ann Swain, Professor of Nursing and Chair of the Budget Priorities Committee,
who spoke on the need to develop the best review mechanism
for recommendations of major retrenchment or closure of
academic units. Donald Brown, Professor of Psychology and
liaison for the Committee on the Economic Status of the
Faculty (CESF), who mentioned a survey which is near completion concerning faculty attitudes on collective bargaining,
the compensation program, and a survey of the University's
annuitants. Richmond Browne, Professor of Music and liaison
to the Tenure Committee, who spoke on the question of tenure.
The meeting was then recessed.


Operating
Budgets, 1981-82
Public Comments
SACUA Report




138


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


Replacement
Hospital Project


FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1981
The Regents met at 8:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Dunn,
Nederlander, Power, Roach, Varner, and Waters. Chancellor
Jenkins and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Overberger,
Johnson, Acting Vice-President Jacobson, and Vice-President
and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regent Brown and
Chancellor Nelson were absent.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order.
The Regents completed discussing the detailed operating
budget for 1981-82.
Dr. Douglas Sarbach commented upon a study which had
been undertaken for the interior design development of the
Replacement Hospital. Miss Janet Risenstein, an environmental
behavior research specialist candidate in the fields of architecture
and social science, has interviewed 670 patients and visitors concerning their preferences for utilization of space with respect to
the hospital rooms, corridors, lounges, etc. Response to the
study has been extremely favorable and it is felt that it has
had a great influence on the interior design. Dr. Sarbach then
presented slides indicating the results of the study.
Regent Baker commented that the study was both innovative
and interesting. He asked if there would be room in the new
hospital to provide alternate care similar to a hotel for patients
who do not need a great deal of medical attention. The response
was negative, but it was acknowledged that there was a need
for that kind of facility. Regent Baker then suggested that it
might be worthwhile to look into this, not only for future needs,
but it also might be a way to lower the cost of health care.
The Regents received the financial report supplemental
schedules for the year ending June 30, 1981.


Financial Report


University Audits  Mr. A. B. Hicks reviewed the six-month report on University Audits. The Regents asked questions concerning certain
hospital items, scheduling of audits of various departments, and
the recording of charges at the Hospital.
Manageng      The Regents received a status report on the Energy ManProgram  agement Program for 1980-81.
IHealth Insurance  Regent Dunn moved to authorize the increase in University
support for Blue Cross-Blue Shield/Major Medical health insurance as recommended. Regent Nederlander seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
HMO      Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the report on the Health
Maintenance Organization and the item concerning the risks




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


139


involved with implementation of an HMO. He commented that
the federal government no longer provided funds on a loan basis
to support the development of such an organization.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated that he was aware of
only one successful HMO organization in a University setting
and that operation had merged the elements of primary care
medicine of each disciplinary area into one unit. These elements
at The University of Michigan, however, are all integral parts of
the individual disciplinary areas. After long deliberations of the
fiscal risks involved, the medical staff and the hospital staff
indicated that it would be inappropriate for them to become
involved at the present time. The University will continue to
work toward an alternative health care mechanism in the community, but one that would probably not be totally University
based.
In response to questions, Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated that Blue Cross-Blue Shield has been successful in establishing HMO's in a few cities throughout Michigan.
The Regents received a schedule which lists outstanding
and anticipated University financing.
The Regents received a report on the financing requirements for the Replacement Hospital Project.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the replacement of the
steam line for the School of Public Health II building, and the
fire protection project for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital.
Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Baker moved that authority be granted to execute
an easement for the Ann Arbor Township sewer. Regent Roach
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Power moved to authorize the land transfer of the
four parcels of land to the city of Ann Arbor for right-of-way
and approve a construction easement in these areas. Regent
Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Roach moved approval for the University Hospital
to proceed with its application for a Certificate of Need for the
purchase of the Coulter Diff 350 Automated Cell Differential
Counter for the Department of Pathology. Regent Power seconded
the motion and its was adopted.
Regent Power moved approval for the University Hospital
to proceed with its application for a Certificate of Need for the
proposed renovation and expansion project of the Clinical Biochemistry Laboratories in the Department of Pathology. Regent
Dunn seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Chancellor Nelson reviewed the item concerning the Court
Street property at UM-Flint. He indicated that this property


Financing Report
RHP Financing
Report
Renovations
Sewer Easement
Land Transfer
Cell Counter
Pathology
Renovation


Court Street
Property,
UM-Flint




140


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


had no significant use by the University at this time. He then
reviewed the results of the JJ&R study that determined an auxiliary parking lot, student housing, or outdoor recreational facilities as the best uses for this land. The administration at UMFlint felt that these uses are not relevant now or in the future
to the development and mission of the Flint campus. At a subsequent meeting, the Regents authorized the Chancellor to seek
other proposals for the disposition of the property. At the
present time, three proposals are under consideration and it
is likely that an action item would be presented to the Regents
in December.
Chancellor Nelson indicated that throughout the process of
developing these proposals, the administration has kept the
neighborhood associations and other constituencies in the community abreast of all actions.
In response to Regent Dunn's question with respect to the
advisability of selling the property when it might be needed in
the future for outdoor recreation, Chancellor Nelson said that
this possibility had been considered. However, it is not the intention of UM-Flint to move into anything but intramural
athletics which could be adequately served by the excellent
park system in Flint. The neighborhood association has protested the development of recreational facilities on that property,
and the use of such an expensive resource for recreational purposes when other facilities are available nearby would not seem
justified.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the deliberations leading to the recommendation of an architect for the Ambulatory
Care Center. After discussion, Regent Baker moved authorization to appoint TMP Associates, Inc./Hansen Lind Meyer, Inc.
as the architect for the Ambulatory Care facility. Regent
Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Roach then moved that the Regents recess to the
President's Conference Room to hold an executive session to
discuss the following items: (1) advice of counsel with respect
to the recent MERC decision and the status of teaching assistants,
(2) property acquisitions, and (3) internal audit items concerning matters of personal privacy. Such discussions in executive
session are consistent with the provisions of the Open Meetings
Act. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The Regents then proceeded to the President's Conference
Room.
At the completion of the recess, President Shapiro reconvened the meeting. He announced that after a thorough discussion with the Regents of the MERC decision concerning teaching
assistants and upon listening to members of the Graduate Em

Ambulatory Care
Center
Motion to Recess
in Executive
Session
MERC Decision
Not to be
Appealed




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


141


ployees Organization and others around the University community, it has been decided that in the long-term best interest
of the University, the MERC decision would not be appealed.
The Regents supported that decision although not unanimously.
The President expressed the view that the University now looks
forward to continuing its long and productive relationship with
its graduate employees.
Regent Dunn moved to approve changing the name of the Center for
Wildland Management Studies to the Center for Strategic Wild- Wildland Manland Management Studies in the School of Natural Resources. agement Studies
Regent Baker seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Nederlander moved approval of the Bylaw revisions Bylaw Revisions
for Sections 5.02, 5.08, and 6.02 affecting the UM-Dearborn
and UM-Flint campuses. Regent Waters seconded the motion
and it was adopted. The Bylaws, as revised, follows:
5.02. GOVERNING BODIES IN SCHOOLS AND                    Sec. 5.02
COLLEGES.
In each school or college of the University, including those
at The University of Michigan-Flint and the schools, colleges,
and divisions at The University of Michigan-Dearborn, the
governing faculty shall be in charge of the affairs of the school,
college, or division, except as delegated to the executive committee, if any, and except that in the Graduate School the governing
body shall be the executive board, and in the Medical School
shall be the executive faculty.
5.08. APPOINTMENT, TENURE, PROMOTION, AND                sec. 5.08
RESIGNATION OF THE STAFF.
1. Members of the tenured professorial staff shall be
appointed by the Board on recommendation by the appropriate
dean or executive committee, and at UM-Dearborn or UMFlint by the Chancellor, and by the President. Unless otherwise
provided by specific action by the Board, professors and associate professors shall be appointed on indeterminate tenure. The
annual budget as approved by the Board shall be deemed the
record of continuance of service for the ensuing year of all
persons on the professorial staff.
2. Assistant professors and all other non-tenured members
of the teaching staff shall be appointed by the President on
recommendation by the dean and executive committee, and at
UM-Dearborn or UM-Flint by the Chancellor. Assistant
professors shall be appointed for terms of one, two, or three
years, as is in each case specifically designated in the terms of
the appointment. Whenever the term of appointment to an assistant professorship is not specified, it shall be for one year only.
Other teaching appointments shall be for not more than one




142


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


year except that in the case of instructors of proved ability the
appointments may be for two year terms. The annual budget as
approved by the Board shall be deemed the record of continuance of service for the ensuing year for all persons on the teaching staff. All such appointments shall be reported monthly to
the Board.
3. Unless specifically provided otherwise by these Bylaws,
all other members of the staff of the University shall be
appointed by the President, on recommendation by the appropriate administrative officer for the fiscal year only.
4. All promotions to tenured teaching positions shall be
made by the Board on recommendation by the chairman of the
department and the dean, the executive committee, and at
UM-Dearborn or UM-Flint by the Chancellor, and the
President. All promotions to non-tenured teaching staff shall be
made by the President on recommendation by the appropriate
administrative officer and shall be reported to the Board in the
same manner as original appointment in this class. All such
changes for other members of the staff shall be made by the
President on recommendation by the appropiate administrative
officer or agency.
(The remainder of the section is unchanged)
Sec. 6.02 6.02. DEGREE PROGRAM DEFINITIONS.
Undergraduate Degree programs are offered by:
The University of Michigan (Ann Arbor Campus)
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
School of Art
School of Business Administration
School of Dentistry
School of Education
College of Engineering
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
School of Music
School of Natural Resources
School of Nursing
College of Pharmacy
The University of Michigan-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Division of Education
School of Engineering
Division of Interdisciplinary Studies
School of Management
The University of Michigan-Flint
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
School of Management




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


143


Graduate degree programs are offered by the schools and
colleges on all three campuses, and by the divisions at The
University of Michigan-Dearborn, through the agency of the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, leading to the
Master's, Doctoral, and related degrees. In addition, the College
of Architecture and Urban Planning, the School of Business
Administration, the School of Natural Resources, and the
Schools of Management at The University of Michigan-Dearborn and The University of Michigan-Flint are authorized to
offer the master's degree in appropriate professional fields, The
School of Music, the master's degree in applied Music, and
the College of Pharmacy, the degree of Doctor of Pharmacy.
Graduate professional degree programs are offered by the:
Medical School
School of Dentistry
Law School
School of Public Health
School of Social Work
Regents Waters moved to approve the list of members to the
Hospital Public Advisory Board, as recommended. Regent Dunn
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the appointments to the
Medical Staff for privileges as attending staff and as courtesy
staff, as recommended. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The Medical School enrollment report was deferred until a
later date.
The Regents received the agenda concerning the meeting
between the Regents and the Senate Advisory Committee on
University Affairs (SACUA).
All of the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of October totaled $1,176.13.
The Regents adjourned to meet December 17 and 18, 1981.


PAB, Hospital
Medical Staff
Appointments
Enrollment
Report, Medical
School
SACUA
Agenda


~~C1-?




RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary




144


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1981


INDEX
Ambulatory Care Center, 140
Appointments, 127, 129; committee, 128
Audits, University, 138
Budget Status, 1982-83, 120; Operating budgets, 1981-82, 137
Bylaws, revisions to sections 5.02, 5.08, 141; 6.02, 142
Cell Counter for Department of Pathology, 140
Dearborn: budget status, 121
Degrees: lists amended, 134; doctoral candidates list approved, 137
Energy Management Program, 139
Financial report, 138
Financing report, University, 139
Flint: Budget status, 122; Court Street property, 140
Gifts, 123
Health insurance increase, 139
Health Maintenance Organization, 139
Hospital: replacement project, 138; public advisory board membership
143; RHP financing report, 139
Land transfer, 139
Leaves of absence, 128, 133
MacArthur, J. D., professorship established, 128
Medical School enrollment report, 143
Medical Staff appointments, 143
Michigan Employment Relations Committee, decision not to appeal, 141
Michigan Student Assembly annual report, 117
Motion to recess in executive session, 140
Murphy, M. M., retirement, 133
Newcomb, T. M., professorship established, 128
Physical Therapy program, 117
Promotions, 128, 132
Public Comments, 137
Recess, motion to, in executive session, 140
Renovations, 139, 140
Research Expenditure report, 119
Resignations, 132
Russel, Henry, Lecturer, appointed, 128
Schield, H. W., retirement, 133
Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs report, 137; agenda
143
Sewer easement, 139
Strategic Wildland Management Studies, Center for, 141


P,


1,




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1981
The Regents met at 2:30 P.M. at The University of Michigan-Flint.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Nederlander, Power, Roach, and Varner. Chancellors Jenkins
and Nelson and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Overberger,
Johnson, Acting Vice-President Jacobson, and Vice-President
and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regent Waters was
absent.
President Shapiro convened the meeting and asked VicePresident Frye to lead the discussion on the status of the
Physical Therapy program.
Vice-President Frye reviewed the process that was followed Physical Therapy
by the Medical School that resulted in their recommendation to Program
discontinue the Physical Therapy program. The recommendation was concurred in by the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts. That recommendation was based on the conclusion that
there would not be sufficient additional resources to restore the
program to a position of strength and quality.
Dr. Frye then described a subsequent central review of the
program. That review resulted in a set of alternative courses of
action: (1) discontinue the program as recommended, (2) continue the program with additional resources, (3) continue the
program at another institution in the State, (4) relocate the
program in the Department of Physical Education, or (5) relocate the program at the Flint campus. Complete discontinuance
was eliminated because of the severe shortage of physical therapists in the State of Michigan and the nation. Incremental support was simply not possible given the relatively low priority of
the program in the Medical School. Relocation at another
institution was rejected because of the two strong internal proposals for relocation.
The proposal for relocation in the Department of Physical
Education would have required again a substantial commitment
for additional resources.
The proposal for relocation at Flint would ( 1 ) provide for a
continuing supply of physical therapists, (2) provide for a
strong academic program, fully accredited, including the incremental requirements defined by the review committee, (3)
145




146


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


provide a sound financial base for the program at Flint while
allowing the intended financial savings on the Ann Arbor
campus, and (4) receive the support of the current director and
faculty of the program. It was emphasized that the Flint proposal was still under consideration by the Flint faculty and that
their support would be essential before any final recommendation could be made to the Regents.
Chancellor Nelson indicated his personal support for the
relocation to the Flint campus and expressed his confidence that
the Flint faculty would be similarly supportive. He felt that the
Flint faculty would likely stipulate four conditions in its acceptance of the proposal: (1) that the budget for the program be
clearly and adequately defined, (2) that there be no budgetary
drain on existing programs, (3) that the new program be fully
reviewed at appropriate intervals, and (4) that the program be
satisfactorily incorporated in the Flint governance system. The
Chancellor also commented upon the widespread community
support which this proposal has received.
Vice-President Frye noted that five of the principal figures
in the original review of the program would speak to the Regents
on Friday. He further noted that no action is being sought now.
If the Flint faculty should act favorably, a formal recommendation would be brought in January.
Chancellor Nelson felt that the Flint faculty would act in
time for a recommendation in January to be brought to the
Regents.
Regent Varner asked for clarification of the budgetary responsibility between Flint and Ann Arbor during the transition
period. While complete financial details have yet to be worked
out, it is possible that Flint might manage its current budget base
so that they would be supporting instructional costs in Ann
Arbor as the Ann Arbor students are phased out of the program.
Regent Dunn wondered about the possibilities for housing
students both in the transition period and in the future. Chancellor Nelson noted that physical therapy students, being juniors
and seniors, would traditionally provide for their own housing.
In addition, however, a local hospital has pledged dormitory
space for such students if that were needed and the Flint campus
itself was establishing a housing bureau to assist all students with
housing problems. There are no plans for Flint to initiate a dormitory program of its own.
In response to a question from Regent Brown, Chancellor
Nelson explained the budgetary aspects of the Flint proposal
noting that after an initial bridging the current Ann Arbor base
of $100,000 would become entirely free for reallocation. Indirect
costs might total a figure twice that amount.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


147


There are four faculty currently involved in the physical
therapy curriculum itself.
Regent Baker inquired about the provision for the clinical
training aspects of the program. Clinical training would be provided by Flint area hospitals.
Regent Power queried the apparent contradiction suggested
by the fact that on the one hand the University does not regard
physical rehabilitation as a growth area while, on the other hand
national data suggest otherwise. She also noted the specific
actions being taken by Southeast Michigan hospitals to increase
their physical rehabilitation facilities. These factors seemed to be
at variance with the Medical School's assessments of its own
priorities.
Vice-President Frye responded that he did not mean to imply
that physical rehabilitation was not a growth area. He was simply
suggesting that as an academic training program, physical education, kinesiology, etc., would not surface as high priority areas
for the commitment of additional resources.
Chancellor Nelson concluded by saying that should the Flint
proposal be accepted, it might be necessary to create a special
unit in which to locate physical therapy and similar types of
programs.
Regent Dunn then introduced the following resolution cele- Anniversary
Resolution for
brating the twenty-fifth anniversary of the founding of the UM-Flint
Flint campus.
The Board of Regents of The University of Michigan herewith acknowledge and extend their best wishes to The University of Michigan-Flint on the occasion of its twenty-fifth anniversary.
Throughout its history, the Flint campus has provided to
residents of the area the level of educational quality associated
with The University of Michigan, and has made extensive contributions to the cultural growth and enrichment of the community. From its inception in 1956 as a two-year campus to its
present status as a branch campus offering both undergraduate
and graduate programs, The University of Michigan-Flint
has maintained standards of service and excellence in The
University of Michigan tradition.
The Regents extend their congratulations for the significant
contribution which the campus has made to the students and
residents of the Flint community, and to the University as a
whole.
The resolution was seconded by Regent Power and adopted
unanimously.




148


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


I. MINUTES
Action on the minutes of the November Regents' meeting
was deferred until the January meeting.
II. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports on investment transactions, plant extension, litigation,
personnel-labor relations, and the Replacement Hospital Project.
Vice-President Overberger filed a monthly report on grants
and contracts.
Acting Vice-President Jacobson filed his monthly report on
the Office of University Relations and Development.
Gifts  III. GIFTS AND      GRANTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from the following
sources. They were received with           thanks and in      accord with
their terms and conditions.
Allied Chemical Foundation, Morristown, New          Jersey; for
the Macromolecular Research Center fund......................  5,000.00
American Cancer Society, Inc., New       York, New    York; for
the American Cancer Society funds..................................  40,982.00
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas; for the American
Heart Association fund.................................................  11,522.50
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois; for the following
funds:
Arnoco Foundation Fellowship fund................................  17,994.00
College of Engineering fund..............................................  2,500.00
Geology-Mineralogy fund.................................................  2,000.00
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for the Arthritis
Foundation     funds..............................................................  5,791.68
Arthur Andersen & Company Foundation, Detroit; for the
following funds:
Arthur Andersen Scholarship in Industrial and Operations
Engineering..................................................................  1,350.00
Business School.........................................................  3,450.00
School  of  E ducation............................................................  75.00
Electrical and Computer Engineering Special..................  100.00
Gifts Pending Designation fund........................................  16,959.50
Industrial Engineering Gift fund......................................  1,465.00
Kelsey  M useum    Associates................................................   75.00
Law School Capital Campaign-Unrestricted fund............       875.00
School  of  Library   Science..................................................   100.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................  125.00
Mechanical Engineering Special fund..............................  150.00
Center for Near Eastern and North African Studies........       100.00
Paton Center for Accounting.........................................  13.50
William A. Paton Accounting Scholarship........................  75.00
D. M. Phelps fund............................................   50.00
Program in Hospital Administration Alumni fund..........        200.00
Radrick Farms Golf Course Gifts....................................  500.00
Slavic Department Fellowship............................................  750.00
Vital Margin fund........................................................  25.00




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981                               149
Isadore and Leon Winkelman Chair in Retailing...........    4,025.00
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn; for the
following Michigan Chapter, Arthritis Foundation funds       8,999.98
Atlantic Richfield Company, Los Angeles, California; for the
following funds:
Atlantic Richfield Foundation Fund in Chemical Engin eerin g.......................................................................   2,5 0 0.0 0
Atlantic Richfield Fellowship in Mechanical Engineering      2,000.00
Electrical and Computer Engineering Special..................  1,000.00
Geology-Mineralogy fund......................................  2,000.00
Jesse Besser Fund, Inc., Alpena; for the Eye Center Ophthalmology  Consolidation  fund..........................................  8,500.00
Mr. and Mrs. Lorne C. Black, Jr., Findlay, Ohio; for the
President's   fund.....................................................  5,000.00
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington; for Boeing Fellowship
in Aerospace Engineering fund........................................ 50,000.00
F. A. and A. M. Bower Charitable Trust, Ann Arbor; for the
F. B. Fralick Ophthalmology fund...................................  10,000.00
Champion Spark Plug Company, Toledo, Ohio; for the Automotive Transportation Center fund..................................  5,000.00
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California; for the following
funds:
Business Administration-CIS Faculty Special fund..........  2,010.00
Chevron Fellowship in Business Administration.............. 20,190.00
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., San Francisco, California; for the
following funds:
Chevron Fellowship in Mechanical Engineering...........     8,000.00
College  of  Engineering....................................................  200.00
Standard Oil of California Fellowship.....................  11,100.00
Edna McConnell Clark Foundation, New York, New York;
for the Edna McConnell Clark-Higashi fund..................  12,547.00
DeVilbiss Company, Ann Arbor; for the Robotics Industrial
A ffiliates  Program   fund......................................................   6,250.00
Mary S. Eagleson Estate; for the Mary S. Eagleson fund....       5,000.00
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York; for the
following funds:
Minority Engineering Program..........................................  4,000.00
Minority and Female Scholarships in Engineering............  4,000.00
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York; for the
following funds:
B usiness   School................................................................  150.00
Business School Associates Program................................  5,000.00
Civil Engineering Special fund........................................  2,000.00
Exxon Education Foundation Grant in Chemical Engineering....................................................  5,000.00
Exxon Education Foundation Mechanical Engineering
and  Applied  M echanics  fund....................................  8,000.00
Geology-M  ineralogy   fund..................................................  150.00
L aw   School..........................................................................  3,150.00
K enneth   K.  Landes  fund....................................................  9,000.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................  75.00
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Scholarship
and Discretionary fund..............................................  5,000.00
U nrestricted   fund................................................................  150.00
V ital  M argin   fund.............................................................  345.00
Ford Motor Company fund, Dearborn; for the following
funds:
A thletic  Scholarships..........................................................   1,000.00
Business  School............................................................  20.00




150                DECEMBER MEETING, 1981
Chemical Engineering Special fund..................................  100.00
College    of  Engineering......................................................  25.00
Engineering Building Gifts................................................  100.00
Friends of the Matthaei Botanical Gardens......................    125.00
School of Music Marching Band Bowl Games fund........              100.00
President's  fund.................................................................   5,000.00
University Musical Society Gifts........................................  350.00
University of Michigan Friends of the Opera..................       25.00
University of Michigan Cancer Research Institute..........           10.00
Vital  M argin  fund..............................................................   815.00
W  U O M................................................................................   100.00
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for the
Max Kade Foundation-Exchange Program            fund............  8,000.00
Marathon Oil Foundation, Inc., Findlay, Ohio; for the following funds:
Alum  ni  Association    fund.................................................  50.00
A thletic   Scholarships..........................................................   200.00
Chemical Engineering Special fund..................................  200.00
Physical Stress Research fund............................................  5,000.00
Agnes C. McKay Estate; for the Frank D. and Agnes C.
McKay Medical Research fund....................................  21,643.61
Frank D. McKay Estate; for the Frank D. and Agnes C.
McKay Medical Research fund........................................  7,084.13
Medical Data Systems, Ann Arbor; for the Medical Data
Systems-Pitt fund................................................  5,310.00
Medicus Affiliates, Inc., Evanston, Illinois; for the Program in
Hospital Administration Alumni fund............................  16,666.67
Michigan    Heart Association, Southfield; for the following
Michigan Heart Association funds....................................  53,137.82
Motor Vehicle      Manufacturers    Association    of the   United
States, Inc., Detroit; for the following funds:
Highway Safety Research Institute.................................... 145,375.00
HSRI-Mathematical Models of Motor Vehicle Systems
fund.........................................................  25,000.00
National Fund for Medical Education, Hartford, Connecticut;
for the National Fund for Medical Education-Pennington
fu n d.....................................................................................   6,1 8 8.0 0
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New       York, New     York;
for the following Multiple Sclerosis Society funds..........    13,893.75
Christine L. Newman Trust, Old Saybrook, Connecticut; for
the James Blaine Newman Engineering Student Loan
fu n d......................................................    7,6 9 9.8 4
Outstate Michigan Construction Industry Advancement Program, Lansing; for the Michigan Chapter, Associated
General Contractors Civil Engineering fund....................  10,800.00
Gertrude Ain Peet Estate; for the Max Peet Medical Student
Loan     fund.......................................................................   126,343.00
Fred J. Peterson Foundation, Inc., Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin;
for the   Naval Architecture      and   Marine   Engineering
Building  fund....................................................................   5,000.00
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene B. Power, Ann Arbor; for the following
funds:
Kelsey Museum      Associates................................................  25.00
Power Center Addition fund.............................................. 150,000.00
WUOM...................................................             120.00
Katherine Turner Ransel, Hickory Corners; for the President's
fu n d...................................................................................  9,788.36
Schlumberger Foundation, Sugar Land, Texas; for the Schlumberger Foundation Collegiate fund..................................  21,000.00




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981                               151
Seabury Foundation, Chicago, Illinois; for the Charles W.
Seabury Fellowship for Graduate Studies in Housing and
Community Development fund..........................................  14,000.00
Shell Companies Foundation, Inc., Houston, Texas; for the
following funds:
Chemical Engineering Special fund..................................  200.00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund........        300.00
Geology-M  ineralogy  fund.......................................  7,740.00
L aw   S ch oo l..........................................................................  140.0 0
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................  100.00
School  of  N ursing..................................................  200.00
President's   fund.........................................................  5,000.00
Shell Fellowship in Chemical Engineering........................  7,500.00
Shell Fellowship in Mechanical Engineering..................  7,500.00
V ital  M argin   fund..............................................................   1,150.00
Tanner Lecture Trust, Salt Lake City, Utah; for the Obert C.
Tanner Lecturer in Philosophy fund......................  11,000.00
Dr. and Mrs. Harry A. Towsley, Ann Arbor; for the following
funds:
A lum ni  Center..............................................................   51,000.00
President's   fund................................................................  22,000.00
University Musical Society Gifts......................................  1,000.00
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation,
Inc., New York, New York; for the United Cerebral
Palsy  Foundation-Gilman     fund......................................  15,808.00
U.S. Steel Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; for the Computer Process Control Laboratory fund............................  5,000.00
Mr. and Mrs. F. Peter Vaculik, Ann Arbor; for the Eye
Center Ophthalmology Consolidation fund........................  10,000.00
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey; for
the following funds:
Antimicrobial Studies-Loesche fund..................................  11,000.00
W U O M................................................................................   2 0.0 0
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey; for
the Warner-Lambert Colloquium on Science and Public
Policy  fund..........................................................................  10,000.00
Claude W. West Estate; for the Claude W. West fund in
Engineering..............................................................25,000.00
The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
George A. Heffernon, M.D., Sun City, Arizona. National
Medical Enterprises, Southeastern Public Service, Permian Basin Realty Trust UBI, Southland Royalty Company, and United Services Life Insurance Company,
common stocks; for the George A. Heffernon, M.D.
fund, to participate in The University of Michigan Donor
Pooled Income fund.................................................. 76,968.75
Mr. and Mrs. Brownson Murray, West Bloomfield. Merck
and Company, Incorporated, common stock; for the
Kenneth Murray Lectureship........................................  10,928.25
Sidney J. Wolfenson, Houston, Texas. Wolfenson Electric,
Inc., common stock; for the Newt Loken Gymnastics
Scholarship   fund.............................................................  25,023.75
The following nonmonetary, noncash gifts were received:
Peter Amman, Ann Arbor. Two books and eleven published
dissertations for The University of Michigan-Dearborn
Campus Library
Jeffrey Bonner, Ann Arbor. Nineteen books; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library




152


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


Ms. Doris Jean Falen, Flint. Twenty-seven books and twentyone circulars and pamphlets pertaining to the 1904
World's Fair; for The University of Michigan-Flint
Campus Library
Marvin E. Klein, Bloomfield Hills. A bronze sculpture,
entitled: "Reclining Bird," by Henry Moore (1927); for
the Museum of Art
Lubomyr M. Kowal, Flint. Four books; for The University of
Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Neil Leighton, Flint. A book entitled: Everything We Had,
by Al Santoli; for The University of Michigan-Flint
Campus Library
Roy F. Proffitt, Ann Arbor. A sixteen foot Rebel sailboat, and
two sets of Rebel sails; for the Alumni Association's
Camp Michigania
Thomas C. Richards, Plymouth. Four books; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
Tony Skowronski, Grand Blanc. Two books: The Economic
Problem, and Economics; for The University of Michigan
-Flint Campus Library
Leslie Woodcock Tentler, Ann Arbor. Five books; for The
University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
Wolverine X-Ray Sales & Service Company, Southfield. A
Nuclear Medicine scintillation scanner system; for the
Department of Radiology
Victor K. Wong, Ann Arbor. A book entitled: Concepts of
Modern Physics, by Arthur Beiser; for The University of
Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library


Personal Actions
Appointments


IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the
Regents:


NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on date indicated
Lyle M. Denniston, appointed Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor of
Journalism, March 15 to March 19, 1982


Promotions, etc.


CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Wayne K. Davis, Associate Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and
Health Professions Education, appointed Assistant Dean for Curriculum in the Medical School, January 1, 1982
Jason L. Finkle, reappointed Director of the Center for Population
Planning, January 1, 1982 through June 30, 1985
Douglas Foster, Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with
tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of Biological Sciences,
without tenure, September 1, 1981
Graham Hovey, Professor of Communications and Director of the
National Endowment for the Humanities Fellowships for Journalists
at Michigan, also appointed the Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor
in Journalism, Fall term, 1981.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


153


Margaret J. Hunter, Professor of Biological Chemistry and Research
Biophysicist, appointed Assistant Dean (Acting) for Admissions
in the Medical School, January 1, 1982
Gayl D. Ness, Professor of Sociology, appointed Director of the Interdepartmental Program in Population Planning, January 1, 1982
through June 30, 1985
Robert M. Owen, Associate Professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic
Sciences, with tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of Marine
Geology, without tenure and without salary, January 1, 1982
Robert G. Schafer, Professor of History, appointed Chairperson of the
History Department, UM-Flint, January 1, 1982 through December 31, 1984
Jane S. Schultz, Assistant Professor of Genetics, appointed Assistant Dean
for Student Affairs, Medical School, January 1, 1982
Robert L. Shaffer, Professor of Biological Sciences, with tenure, and
Curator and Director of the Herbarium, appointed the Lewis E.
Wehymeyer and Elaine Prince Wehymeyer Professor of Fungal
Taxonomy, January 1, 1982
Paul K. Trojan, Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering,
reappointed Interim Dean of the School of Engineering, UM-Dearborn, January 1, 1982 through June 30, 1982
The following committee appointments were approved by the Committee
Regents:                                                           Appointments
Clements Library Associates, Board of Governors
Reappointments of incumbent members to the Board of Governors
of the Clements Library for the year October 1, 1981 through October 31,
1982:
Mrs. Harriet Upton, Chairman
Mrs. John T. Alexander
Mrs. Noyes L. Avery, Jr.
Mr. Carl W. Bonbright
Mrs. George C. Cameron
Mr. C. E. Frazer Clark, Jr.
Mr. Bly A. Corning
Dr. Thomas N. Cross
Dr. John C. Dann, Secretary
Mr. Duane N. Diedrich
Dr. Harlan H. Hatcher
Mr. Peter N. Heydon
Dr. Thomas C. Kingsley
Mr. James M. Klancnik
Mr. James S. Schoff
Mr. Roy M. Tolleson, Jr.
Dr. Lee D. vanAntwerp
Mr. John D. Wheeler
Public Television Community, Advisory Board-Flint
Michael Bennett, for a two-year term, December 1, 1981 to 1983 to
complete the term of Lawrence Huber
School of Nursing, Executive Committee
Professor Janice Lindberg, to complete term beginning January 1, 1982
through June 30, 1983, vice Professor Carol Easley Allen, resigned
from the University
Professor Linda Richardson, to complete term beginning January 1, 1982
through June 30, 1984, vice Professor Jean Wood, resigned from
the University




154


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


University Musical Society, Officers and Directors
Confirmation of officers and directors elected by the Musical Society
at its annual meeting held on Monday, December 7, 1981
Gail W. Rector, President
Harlan Hatcher, Vice President
Wilbur K. Pierpont, Treasurer
Douglas D. Crary, Secretary
The following directors were elected to succeed themselves for threeyear terms ending December 31, 1984:
Douglas D. Crary
Wilbur K. Pierpont
Harold T. Shapiro
Lois U. Stegeman
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
Appointments      NEW   APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Assistant Professor
Gerald J. Mahoney, Ph.D., Education, December 1, 1981
James E. Martin, Ph.D., Environmental and Industrial Health, Public
Health, December 14, 1981
W. Joseph McCune, M.D., Internal Medicine, Medical School, September
1, 1981
Instructor
Harry T. Colfer, M.D., Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1,
1981
Valiya Veetil Ravi, M.B.B.S., Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 1981
Visiting Professor
Andre Burguiere, D.E.S. Argregation, History, Literature, Science, and
the Arts, November 1, 1981
Kyung Hoi Lee, Ph.D., Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1,
1981
Visiting Assistant Professor
Hans Ibsen, M.D., Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 1981
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Myles A. Mazur, M.M., Music, September 1, 1981
Donald Scavia, Ph.D., Division of Biological Sciences, Literature, Science,
and the Arts, November 1, 1981
Adjunct Lecturer
Laurel Williams, M.S.N., Nursing, November 16, 1981
Clinical Assistant Professor
Farhad Hadavi, M.S., Dentistry, November 9, 1981
Nasir U1 Haque, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, September 1, 1981
Clinical Instructor
Gary J. Arnold, D.D.S., Dentistry, November 9, 1981
Theodore E. Beimel, B.S., Pharmacy, September 1, 1981




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


155


Lise A. Chesney, B.S., Pharmacy, September 1, 1981
Catherine Christen, Pharm. D., Pharmacy, November 1, 1981
Pamela L. DeTullio, Pharm. D., Pharmacy, November 1, 1981
James A. Gonzales, Pharm. D., Pharmacy, November 1, 1981
Barbara J. Henike, M.D., Psychiatry, Medical School, October 1, 1981
Mark S. Jacobs, Pharm. D., Pharmacy, November 1, 1981
Joan S. Klein, B.S., Pharmacy, September 1, 1981
Thomas G. Kundrat, B.S., Pharmacy, September 1, 1981
Katherine A. Levesque, Pharm. D., Pharmacy, September 1, 1981
Charles H. Newman, B.S., Pharmacy, November 1, 1981
David M. Repasky, M.P.H., Dentistry, October 1, 1981
Ruth N. Sinsheimer, B.S., Pharmacy, September 1, 1981
Jane A. Smydo, D.D.S., Dentistry, October 1, 1981
Gail S. Solway, B.S., Pharmacy, September 1, 1981
Robert E. Weaver, D.D.S., Dentistry, October 15, 1981
Stephen W. Wiseman, Pharm. D., Pharmacy, November 1, 1981
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF                          Promotions, etc.
INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Jeffrey P. Bonner, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Anthropology,
September 1, 1981
Stephen A. Eklund, Assistant Professor of Dental Public Health, also
appointed Assistant Professor of Dentistry, October 1, 1981
TERMINATION OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS                      Resignations
Effective on dates indicated
Assistant Professor
Thomas J. Brady, Internal Medicine and Radiology, September 30, 1981
James F. Brymer, Internal Medicine, August 31, 1981
Jerry L. Simmons, Pathology, May 9, 1981
Joseph J. Weiss, Internal Medicine, June 30, 1981
Instructor
Gladys H. Knoll, Nursing, November 13, 1981
Martha A. McCravey, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, December 16, 1981
Lecturer
David E. Frisque, Electrical and Computer Engineering, October 31, 1981
Clinical Assistant Professor
Hubert M. Allen, Surgery, deceased, October 4, 1981
Mary Ellen Henderson, Pharmacy, October 15, 1981
Clinical Instructor
Gary L. Gambill, Surgery, September 12, 1981
Visiting Lecturer
Oleg Tretiakoff, Nuclear Engineering, September 1, 1981
Two off-campus assignments, four sabbatical leaves, one
leave of absence without salary, three extended sick leaves, and
one retirement furlough were reported to the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Secretary Kennedy reported the retirement of four faculty
members. The following memoirs were adopted.




156            DECEMBER MEETING, 1981
E. W. Ardis    EVART W. ARDIS, former Director of Career Planning and
Retirement Placement (CP&P), will retire on January 31, 1982, and by special action
of the Regents is now accorded emeritus status in recognition of his long
and distinguished career with The University of Michigan.
A native of McBain, Michigan, Dr. Ardis received his baccalaureate
degree from Western Michigan University, his master's degree from
Northwestern University and has had honorary doctorates conferred on
him by Eastern Michigan University and Cleary College.
He joined the U-M staff in 1959 as Director of the Bureau of Appointments and Occupational Information, as the CP&P office was then
known.
Prior to his career at the U-M, Dr. Ardis was a school superintendent
for 25 years, serving in Michigan school systems at Freeport, Inkster,
East Detroit, and Ypsilanti. The Ypsilanti School District has named
an elementary school in his honor.
He has held numerous offices in local, state, and national professional organizations including the presidency of the Association of School
and University Staffing and the Michigan Association of School Administrators. He was a member of the Board of Trustees of Washtenaw Community College and is an active member of the Board of Trustees of
Cleary College.
During his twenty-one years as Director, CP&P grew from a small
career-entry employment agency to one of the nation's leading career
services for students and alumni. Under his leadership, CP&P enjoyed
many "firsts." U-M was the first major university to add career counseling
and planning to its placement activities. U-M's CP&P was the first in the
nation to provide the following career services: a special support program
for minority students, a program to address the special career needs of
women students and alumni, a program to assist graduate degree
recipients in careers outside academia, summer internships in government
and industry and the establishment of a preprofessional service which
has assisted hundreds of U-M students in gaining admission to the
country's leading professional schools.
The attractive career service facilities at 3200 Student Activities
Building were constructed under the guidance of Dr. Ardis in 1959-60
and expanded and renovated in 1975. These facilities have become a
model for career planning and placement offices throughout the country.
In recent years, Dr. Ardis has headed superintendent searches for
practically every school system in the state and several systems throughout
the nation. He is regarded by his administrative colleagues as one of the
true leaders in the field of placement. His insights and contributions,
based upon many years of administrative service have been an invaluable asset to the U-M and its graduates.
Dr. Ardis stepped down as Director of CP&P at the end of the
1979-80 academic year. He has remained on the staff as a consultant to
school systems and has continued to be involved with the placement
of school administrators.
For his remarkable and dedicated service in this vital area of
University erdeavor, the Regents now name him Director Emeritus of
Career Planning and Placement.
C. N. Davisson    CHARLES NELSON       DAVISSON, Professor of Marketing, will
Retirement retire from active faculty status as of December 31, 1981, after a most
productive career as a teacher, researcher, and administrator.
A native of Indiana, Professor Davisson earned an A.B. degree at
Earlham College in 1938 before entering the Graduate School of Business
Administration of The University of Michigan. He was awarded the
M.B.A. in 1940 and joined the faculty of the University of Missouri
as an Instructor in Marketing. Returning to Michigan in 1942 to enter
the doctoral program, Davisson was appointed as a Lecturer and later




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981                        157
Instructor in Marketing. He earned the doctorate in 1945 and was promoted to Assistant Professor in 1946. He attained the rank of Associate
Professor in 1950 and Professor in 1954.
During his forty year career at Michigan, Professor Davisson has
contributed strength and vitality to the instruction and research in marketing with special emphasis on industrial marketing. In addition, in his
several terms as Chairman of the Marketing faculty, he managed departmental affairs with great skill. Through his leadership on numerous
School and University committees he has served Michigan well.
During the 1960's, Professor Davisson became interested in the
education of foreign businessmen and in 1960-61 was a member of the
faculty of the Institut pour l'Etude des Methodes de Direction de l'Enterprise (IMEDE), in Lausanne, Switzerland. In 1968, he was Visiting Professor of Marketing at the Stichting Bedrijfskunde in Rotterdam, The
Netherlands.
Author or co-author of four books including The Marketing of Automotive Parts which became an industry classic and numerous articles,
Professor Davisson has been a constant source of inspiration to his
colleagues and his students.
The Regents now salute this distinguished marketing educator by
naming him Professor Emeritus of Marketing.
Professor A. NELSON DINGLE received his doctorate from the     A. N. Dingle
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1947. His career at Michigan  Retirement
began in the Civil Engineering Department in 1954; he was promoted to
Professor in 1963, and was one of the charter members of the Department of Meteorology and Oceanography which was formed that same
year.
During his texrure, he taught ten different courses, fifty-six classes,
and spent over 3000 hours in the classroom. His research support was in
excess of one million dollars and included such diverse areas as meteorological education, C02 exchange between the atmosphere and ocean,
pollen studies, raindrop size distribution, and acid rain. He has more
than fifty publications. In 1963 he was awarded the Darton Prize from
the Royal Meteorological Society. He has been chairman of nine doctoral
dissertation committees.
In recognition of this distinguished educator and researcher for his
dedicated service the Dean and Executive Committee and the Department
of Atmospheric and Oceanic Science request the Regents to name
A. Nelson Dingle Professor Emeritus of Atmospheric and Oceanic
Science.
RAYMOND      C. SCOTT, Associate    Professor of Engineering   R. C. Scott
Graphics, retires from The University of Michigan December 31, 1981  Retirement
after 35 years of teaching in the field of Engineering Graphics.
Professor Scott was born August 2, 1911 in McBain, Michigan.
He obtained the B.S. degree (Ind. Ed.) from Central Michigan in 1937
and the M.S. (Ind. Ed.) from Colorado State University in 1947.
From 1936-1942 Professor Scott taught high school Industrial Arts.
During WWII he taught at Willow Run for the U.S.A.F. and at Escola
Technica de Aviacav in Brazil. In 1946 he joined the College of Engineering at The University of Michigan teaching Engineering Graphics
and Production Illustration. He worked in Engineering research from
1946 to 1975 on several research projects. He was promoted Assistant
Professor in 1947 and to Associate Professor in 1967.
Professor Scott was sent to Mexico in 1953 by the University and
served as assistant technical advisor and teacher trainer at the Centro
De Adiestraments de Operadores.




158


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


Professor Scott has worked diligently for the improvement of the
graphics program. He has taught courses for Industry and in the University Extension Course Program. From 1968 to 1980 he was course
leader for the Engineering Graphics program, and responsible for
assigning teaching loads.
He has been an active member of A.S.E.E. and M.I.E.S. and of
Iota Lambda Sigma (Ind. Educ. Honorary Fraternity) serving as Vice
President in 1970 and President in 1971.
During the summer months Professor Scott worked in industry in
graphic and engineering design at Ford, Bendix, Dunn Electric, KaiserFrazer Corp., Amco Engineering, Hines Industrial Associates, Balance
Technology, and Conductron Corp. This work kept Professor Scott abreast
of the changes in the graphic field so he could better instruct the engineering students.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and researcher
for his dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Engineering Graphics.
It was noted that the granting of emeritus status for Evart
Ardis, Director of Career Planning and Placement, was exceptional but fully warranted by his long and distinguished service
to the University.
VII. DEATHS
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
VIII. DEGREES
Degree Lists   On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the
Amended Regents approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
Law School
May 16, 1981
correct to show:
Deborah Marian Levy, B.A., University of Virginia, Juris Doctor
magna cum laude
Juris Doctor, August 14, 1981
add:
Martin Bruce Richards, B.S., Michigan State University
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, August 21, 1981
add:
Joel Barnet Sklar with Distinction
Bachelor of Science, August 21, 1981
add:
Kim Aqeel
Bachelor of General Studies, August 21, 1981
add:
Anne Patricia Kelton
Bachelor of Arts, August 22, 1980
add:
Laura Elena Vinales




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


159


The University of Michigan-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Bachelor of Science, April 27, 1981
correct to show:
Shamiran Yagho Golani with Distinction
College of Engineering
Bachelor of Science, Engineering Mathematics, April 27,
1981
correct to show:
Daniel Gerard Smyth with High Distinction
Bachelor of Science in Engineering (Mechanical Engineering), April 27, 1981
add:
John Steven Kirar
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Bachelor of Arts, August 31, 1981
add:
Janet E. Miller
Bachelor of Science, August 31, 1981
correct to show:
Renda Kamal Dawud
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed his recommendation to
provide long term financing for the Michigan Union renovation,
the Flint Physical Education facility, the Alumni Association
Building, the Dow Building (Chemical Engineering), and the
Power Center addition. He noted that this financing would involve the pledging of student fees. Repayment of the bonds for
gift funded buildings would come from the maturing of gift
pledges. Mr. Brinkerhoff then invited action by the Regents on
the following recommendation: to adopt a bond authorizing
resolution which (a) authorizes and approves the issuance of the
Regents of The University of Michigan Construction Fee Bonds
in the principal amount of $11,200,000 subject to a change to
reflect market conditions and pledge receipts, (b) authorizes the
Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer to proceed to arrange
a public competitively-bid sale of the Bonds and take such other
action as he may determine necessary for the successful sale of
the Bonds, including: (1) changing the manner of sale to a
negotiated sale if he determines that market conditions might
preclude a successful public sale; (2) preparing and circulating
an Official Statement; (3) preparing and publishing a Notice of
Sale; and (4) participating in rating meetings.


Financing for,
Michigan Union,
Flint Physical
Education,
Alumni Center,
Dow and Power
Center Addition
Buildings




160


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


Regent Nederlander noted that it was his understanding that
the funds for the Alumni Building were to come from gift
pledges. He asked when those pledges might be paid.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff explained that a major part of
the pledges was from a bequest which would very probably
mature within the term of the proposed bonds. The Alumni
Association has sufficient reserves to cover that bequest even if
it should not mature.
Regent Nederlander wondered why the Alumni Association
did not use its reserves rather than borrowing funds? President
Shapiro replied that the Alumni Association was earning more
on its invested reserves than it would be paying on the borrowed
funds. It was therefore an advantageous cash flow situation
which prompted this action.
Regent Nederlander expressed his continuing concern about
this action.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Vice-President
Brinkerhoff said that a specifically authorized student fee would
be used to retire the bonds for the Michigan Union renovations.
President Shapiro suggested that it would be better procedurally for the Regents to act first on the items dealing with
the revised budget for the Alumni Center and the Michigan
Union contract award before acting on the financing authorization.
Regent Dunn then moved to approve the revised budget for
the Alumni Center Building. Regent Power seconded the motion
and it was adopted.
Regent Nederlander then moved the awarding of the contract to the low bidder, Schiller Construction Company of Detroit, for the Michigan Union renovations. It was seconded by
Regent Varner and adopted.
In connection with the Alumni Center Building, Regent
Baker asked for a review of the planned turnaround drop off
at the north end of the Michigan League.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the recommendation for the
financing of the construction projects as described previously. It
was seconded by Regent Nederlander and adopted. The resolution authorizing the construction fee bonds appears as Appendix
A to these minutes.
Replacement  Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed his recommendation for
Hospital Project a budget increase for Bid Package #4 of the Replacement HosRe Bid Package
#4 pital Project. He noted that this increase of $600,000 was required because the quality of the fill dirt from the excavation
was so poor that it had to be trucked from the site and new fill




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


161


dirt had to be brought in. He stated that University personnel
checked the loads of removed fill and new fill at the site.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff also noted that there would be
some programmatic shifts between the original $210 million
project and the $75 million additional project because of advantageous siting arrangements. These changes will be incorporated shortly in the budget projections for the project.
Regent Roach then moved to approve the recommended
budget increase for Bid Package #4. The motion was seconded
by Regent Nederlander and adopted.
The Regents then heard comments from the following individuals on the topics indicated: Fred Paffhausen, an alumnus,
concerning construction of the new Burn Center; Charles
Tomnasulo, UM-Flint student, on student privileges for all
three campuses; Edith Gurley, a Lapeer Street neighbor, Delores
Carlisle, a resident of Rickard Manor, Lloyd Custer, Vice
President of the General Neighborhood Renewal Program, and
Claude Miller, President of the Lapeer Street area Block Club,
speaking on the disposition of the Court Street property in
Flint; and John Broad, representing Acorn-Broad-Peters, on the
structural steel contract for the Replacement Hospital Project.


Public Comments


FRIDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1981
The Regents reconvened at 9:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room
in Ann Arbor.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Nederlander, Power, Roach, and Varner. Chancellors Jenkins
and Nelson and Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Overberger,
Johnson, Acting Vice-President Jacobson, and Vice-President
and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regent Waters was
absent.
The initial item was the continuation of the discussion on the
Physical Therapy program.
Dean John Gronvall spoke initially on the process used by
the Medical School in arriving at their recommendation for discontinuance. He acknowledged the fact that this conclusion was
reached even though all the data suggest that the need for
physical therapists is not disputed by the Medical School.
Regent Power commented again on this apparent contradiction, that is, lack of priority for the program in the Medical
School and yet an undisputed need for these professionals in
the State.


Physical Therapy
Program




162


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


Dean Gronvall noted that it was a question of priorities and
that the Medical School simply lacked the resources to continue everything it is doing. He did comment that the Medical
School will continue its residency programs in Physical Medicine
and Rehabilitation.
Dean Peter Steiner then commented on the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts conclusions which supported the
recommendation for discontinuance. He did note that should
the program be relocated to Flint, the students thus relocated
will be replaced with students in other programs.
Regent Baker expressed his concern about reaching conclusions about discontinuing programs and then being influenced by external constituencies to avoid such program closures.
He cautioned that such pressures must be examined in light of
the University's overall objectives to achieve appropriate reductions in its offerings.
Regent Roach asked how students were presently admitted
to the program in Physical Therapy.
Dean Steiner noted that 100 students are admitted as freshmen to the pre-physical therapy program. At the junior year 30
of these and 6 transfer students are admitted to the Physical
Therapy program. If transferred to Flint, Ann Arbor students
could still transfer into the program although final details have
not been worked out.
No loss of State funds is anticipated in this transfer and Flint
would require considerable external support from Flint hospital
and foundation sources. The other factor which makes the transfer possible is the excess capacity at Flint that can absorb these
new students without incurring significant additional costs. Thus
the tuition revenue could be considered as additional resources.
A detailed description of the fiscal elements involved in the
transfer of the program will be provided as part of the formal
recommendation.
Professor Richard Damell, currently Director of the Physical
Therapy program, read a detailed statement which reflected the
position of the department on the program. This statement is on
file with the Secretary of the University. In short it describes the
reasons for discontinuing the program in its present form and
supports the relocation at Flint.
In response to questions, Professor Darnell described the
program as being a broadly based discipline operating in a
number of environments including sports and recreation and
not strictly a hospital based program.
Professor Morton Brown distributed to the Regents copies
of a prepared statement that reflected SACUA's comments on the




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


163


Physical Therapy program. In compliance with Senate Assembly's resolution concerning the "smaller but better" redirection of
the University, Professor Brown indicated that SACUA had
observed closely the process by which the physical therapy program was reviewed. In general, faculty have been involved
throughout the process and SACUA believes that the discontinuance guidelines were followed. At the point, however, when the
Vice-President for Academic Affairs received the recommendations from various committees for his deliberation, SACUA
did not participate.
The Regents' Guidelines for the Discontinuance of Academic
Programs explicitly state that "full opportunity will be provided
during the review by the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs for public and private consultation." Professor
Brown then recommended that SACUA be involved throughout
the discussions held by the executive officers and that they
participate consistently in deliberations involving discontinuance.
He said it is at this stage that unforeseen issues involving
faculty arise.
Questions of centrality to the mission of the University in
relationship between "basic knowledge" and "acquired skills"
arise during all discontinuance procedures and must be considered in all cases.
Although relocation, not discontinuance, of the physical
therapy program was recommended, the same regard for students and faculty, particularly tenured faculty, must be maintained.
Professor Brown concluded that it is extremely important
that the administration be sensitive to and the faculty be involved in the discussion of these issues.
The President then invited the Regents' consideration of the
recommended bylaw changes which would alter the name of
University Hospital to University Hospitals and the title of
Director of the Hospital to Executive Director.
Regent Baker noted that although these changes appear
routine, they are, in fact, very substantial as they represent the
culmination of a very significant administrative reorganization of
University Hospitals.
Regent Nederlander moved approval of the Bylaw revisions
relating to University Hospital. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted. The Bylaws, as revised, follows:
11.131. THE MEDICAL SCHOOL-EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE
The Executive Committee shall consist of the Dean, the
Executive Director of The University of Michigan Hospitals,


Bylaw Revisions
University
Hospitals
Sec. 11.131




164


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


and six additional members from the Executive Faculty, three
of whom shall be from the clinical departments and three from
the preclinical departments, to be appointed by the Regents on
recommendation by the President. The appointed members shall
hold office for three years and shall not be eligible for reappointment until after the lapse of one year. The terms shall be
staggered so as to provide continuity of membership. The Dean
shall be chairman of the committee.
Sec. 11.132 11.132. THE  MEDICAL   SCHOOL-FULL-TIME        AND
PART-TIME SERVICE OF FACULTY MEMBERS
Members of the faculty of the Medical School occupying
clinical chairs may be either on a full-time or a part-time basis as
arranged in each instance. Anyone of professorial rank in a
clinical department who desires to change from full-time to
part-time or vice versa may at any time, with the approval of the
chairman of his department, the Dean, the Executive Committee,
and the Board, be permitted to change his status.
A part-time appointment does not confer the privilege of
private practice in The University of Michigan Hospitals unless
such privilege has been expressly granted by action of the Board.
sec. 11.136 11.136. THE MEDICAL SCHOOL-THE NEUROPSYCHIATRIC INSTITUTE
The Neuropsychiatric Institute shall be maintained for the
purpose of treating patients, engaging in research concerning
mental disease, aiding in establishing in the State of Michigan
suitable preventive measures to reduce the amount of mental
disease in this state, and training physicians and related health
professionals in the care and treatment of mental disease. The
Institute shall be in charge of the chairman of the Department of
Psychiatry, Director, ex officio.
The instructional programs of the Institute and its programs
of scientific research and of preventive psychiatry shall be under
the direction of the dean and executive committee. The budgets
for the program of instruction, scientific research and preventive
psychiatry shall be incorporated into that of the Medical School.
The care and treatment of patients in the Institute shall be
integrated with the activities of The University of Michigan Hospitals. The Hospitals shall be responsible for the business administration of the patient care functions of the Institute, and shall
keep separate accounts of its budget so that the disposition of the
appropriation received from the state may be satisfactorily
recorded.
In the case of patients transferred from any of the state
hospitals for clinical or research purposes, the Director of the




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


165


Institute shall be responsible to the superintendent of the transferring hospital for the patient's care, custody, and treatment.
The records of the Institute shall conform with those of The
University of Michigan Hospitals, and all patients shall be
admitted through the Hospitals.
A provision shall be made whereby all patients admitted to
the Institute shall contract to remain in the Institute at least
five days after giving written notice of a desire to leave, patients
to be detained only when in the opinion of the Director such
detention is necessary.
11.041. THE SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY-LABORATO- sec. 11.041
RIES, DENTAL CLINIC, AND THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN HOSPITALS
The School of Dentistry may establish such laboratories as
are necessary for instruction, investigation, and research in
dentistry. The facilities of the School may be used for the purpose of a dental clinic. The members of the faculty of the School
may operate oral surgery clinics in The University of Michigan
Hospitals.
11.12. THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDICAL                Sec. 11.12
CENTER
The Term, "The University of Michigan Medical Center,"
describes the complex of buildings and activities included in the
Medical School, the School of Nursing, and The University of
Michigan Hospitals, all functioning cooperatively in teaching, research, and patient care.
As provided in these Bylaws, the management of each of
these agencies is separate, but each has full responsibility to
cooperate with the others.
11.15. THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN HOSPITALS              sec. 11.15
The University of Michigan Hospitals shall be maintained
for the purpose of providing the people of the State of Michigan
with the highest type of hospital service and medical care and
of providing suitable facilities for the teaching and advancement
of medicine and allied sciences, arts, and skills. It shall provide
for the observation, diagnosis, care, and treatment of patients
entitled to its benefits, pursuant to the laws of this state and the
authority of the Board. Its services and facilities shall be available so far as possible to all units of the University conducting
programs of teaching and research in medicine, dentistry, public
health, nursing, dietetics, social service, hospital administration,
and such other related programs as may from time to time be
established by authority of the Board. For purposes of hospitals'
administration of patient care, the Neuropsychiatric Institute
shall be associated with The University of Michigan Hospitals.




166


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


ec. 11.151 11.151. THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN HOSPITALS
-EXECUTIVE BOARD
There shall be an Executive Board of The University of
Michigan Hospitals composed of the Dean of the Medical
School, the Dean of the School of Nursing, the Vice-President
for Academic Affairs, the Vice-President and Chief Financial
Officer, the Vice-President for State Relations, the Vice-President for University Relations and Development, Chief of Clinical Affairs, The University of Michigan Hospitals, the Executive
Director of The University of Michigan Hospitals, and two
nominees from the Medical/Dental Staff of The University of
Michigan Hospitals.
The Chairman shall be named by the President and the
Board of Regents.
The nominees of the Medical/Dental Staff will be appointed
by the Board of Regents on recommendation by the President,
and will serve four-year terms, so staggered to provide one replacement each two years.
sec. 11.151A 11.15 1A. THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN HOSPITALS
-EXECUTIVE BOARD-POWERS AND
DUTIES
The Board of Regents is responsible for establishing the
mission, goals, and objectives of The University of Michigan
Hospitals as set out in Section 11.15 and for the quality of
medical care services provided; approval of all major programs
and operating budgets, including level of expenditures and rates
to be charged; the approval of capital and facility plans; appointment and delineation of hospital privileges for Medical/
Dental Staff Members; and appointment of the Executive Director of The University of Michigan Hospitals.
In all the above matters, the Executive Board of The University of Michigan Hospitals is expected to make recommendations to the President and the Board of Regents.
The Executive Board of The University of Michigan Hospitals is itself charged with responsibility and empowered to
establish programs, services, and administrative units to meet the
goals and objectives of The University of Michigan Hospitals,
to review and approve Medical/Dental Staff bylaws, rules, and
regulations governing medical care rendered; to review and
approve fees charged under the Medical Service Plan; to review
and approve the internal organizational structure of The University of Michigan Hospitals, to determine appropriate delegation
of authority to the Executive Director of The University of
Michigan Hospitals within the system of general University




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


167


administration; to insure fulfillment of external requirements for
Hospitals' management; to review and approve Hospitals' sponsored training programs; to review and approve appropriate use
of The University of Michigan Hospitals for clinical educational
and training experience by various health schools of the University; and to take such steps as are needed to insure periodic
evaluation of Hospitals' operations to assure that goals and
objectives are achieved.
In carrying out the above delegated powers, the Executive
Board of The University of Michigan Hospitals will submit
periodic reports to the President and the Board of Regents.
The Executive Board shall submit its minutes to members of the
Board of Regents.
11.151B. THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN HOSPITALS          sec. ll.1S1B
PUBLIC ADVISORY BOARD
There shall be a Public Advisory Board, composed of no
more than fifteen public members serving three-year terms,
staggered so that five will be appointed each year. A representative of the FRIENDS of The University of Michigan Hospitals
will serve a one-year term and be appointed annually by the
FRIENDS. Members shall be appointed by the Board of Regents
upon recommendation of the President, and one member shall be
named as chairman and one member as vice-chairman by the
Board of Regents on nomination of the President.
The Public Advisory Board will provide advice and assistance on general operation of The University of Michigan Hospitals, public relations, future planning, governmental relations,
and fund-raising.
The Public Advisory Board will report to the Executive
Director of The University of Michigan Hospitals, to the Executive Board of The University of Michigan Hospitals, and, through
the President, to the Board of Regents. The Board shall submit
its minutes to members of the Executive Board of The University of Michigan Hospitals and the Board of Regents.
The Executive Director of The University of Michigan Hospitals shall be responsible for providing staff support for the
Board.
11.152, THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN HOSPITALS sec. 11.152
-THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
The Executive Director of The University of Michigan Hospitals shall be appointed by the Board of Regents upon recommendation by the President. He shall be responsible to the
Executive Board of The University of Michigan Hospitals, and




168


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


shall have immediate responsibility for the operation, maintenance and administrative affairs of The University of Michigan
Hospitals. The Executive Director shall, ex officio, be a member
of the Executive Faculty of the Medical School and of the
Executive Committee of the Medical School.
Sec. 11.153 11.153. THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN HOSPITALS
-THE STAFF-PROFESSIONAL SERVICE
The Executive Medical Staff of The University of Michigan
Hospitals shall consist of the Dean of the Medical School, the
Executive Director of The University of Michigan Hospitals,
and the full professors in the several departments of the Hospitals. The Executive Medical staff shall serve in an advisory
capacity with respect to the professional functions of The University of Michigan Hospitals.
The professional medical service of the Hospitals shall be
rendered by the several departments to which the responsibility
of the care of patients and the operation of clinical laboratories
are delegated. Each of the departments shall organize, appoint
necessary officers, and adopt rules for its procedure and government within the limits of its authority.
sec. 11.154 11.154. THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN HOSPITALS
-ADMISSION OF PATIENTS
Patients shall be admitted to The University of Michigan
Hospitals for diagnosis, care, or treatment in accordance with
rules and regulations formulated from time to time by the Executive Board of The University of Michigan Hospitals and approved by the Board.
The following classes of cases may be admitted:
1. Public patients: Patients whose hospitalization is
authorized under the statutes of the State of Michigan
providing for hospitalization at public expense. Such
patients shall have first priority for available facilities.
2. Referred patients: Patients who are referred to The
University of Michigan Hospitals by practicing physicians for diagnosis, care, or treatment.
3. Private patients: Patients who seek admission as private patients of members of the medical staff who have
been accorded the privilege of part-time private practice
in The University of Michigan Hospitals. Such patients
may be admitted only if facilities are available.
4. Emergency patients: Patients who because of emergency conditions are in need of immediate medical care
and treatment.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


169


11.155. THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN HOSPITALS             Sec. 11.155
-DISCLOSURE OF HOSPITALS' RECORDS
The University of Michigan Hospitals' records shall not be
published nor their contents disclosed except to referring or
attending physicians, or in accordance with an order of a court
of competent jurisdiction upon a subpoena duces tecum, or upon
written request of the patient duly witnessed.
Regent Nederlander then moved to adopt the recommended
bylaw changes relating to the membership of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics. Regent Power seconded the
motion and it was adopted. The Bylaw as revised follows:
11.214. THE BOARD IN CONTROL OF                          Board in Control
INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETICS                       Athletics
Sec. 11.214
The Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics shall be
constituted as follows:
1. (a) Nine members of the University Senate, to be appointed by the President from a panel of Senate members chosen
by the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs, subject
to the approval of the Board of Regents, and (b) two executive
officers appointed by the President to be members ex officio. The
nine Senate members shall hold office in each case for three
years, but in no event shall any member of the Senate serve more
than two consecutive terms, except that if a member be appointed
to fill an unexpired term of less than half of a full term, this shall
not make that member ineligible for two full terms. The terms of
members shall be staggered so that three terms shall expire each
year. The panel from which the appointments are made shall
be unranked and shall contain twice the number of appointees. If a
vacancy in the appointive Senate membership shall occur from
causes other than the completion of the appointive term, the
President is authorized to make an interim appointment from the
most recent panel of names submitted by the Senate Advisory
Committee on University Affairs; or, if the President so requests,
from a new panel of names chosen by the Senate Advisory
Committee on University Affairs.
(Paragraphs 2, 3, 4, and 5 remain the same)
Regent Nederlander moved to approve the recommendations Admitting
for admitting privileges for the courtesy staff at University Hos- Privillre
pitals. The motion was seconded by Regent Power and adopted. Hospitals
On a motion by Regent Dunn, seconded by Regent Neder- Medical Staff
lander, the Regents adopted the recommendations for appoint- Appointments
ments to the Medical Staff.
Similarly, Regent Dunn moved to approve the appointment Acting Director,
of John E. Tropman, Professor of Social Work, as Acting Direc- Grontology




170


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


Replacement
Hospital Project
Re Bid Package
#5


tor of the Institute of Gerontology. Regent Nederlander seconded
the motion and it was adopted.
The Regents next discussed the recommendation to award
construction contracts associated with Bid Pack #5, steel erection, for the Replacement Hospital Project. Vice-President
Brinkerhoff explained that the low bids had exceeded the budget
estimate by approximately $1 million. This was due largely to
specifications calling for a heavier guage steel in the patient
bed tower than was actually necessary. Reviews of those specifications by an outside consultant had been made to determine
more precisely the guage which the bed floor loading would require and negotiations are now going forward with the low bidder to reduce the cost of the steel based on these revised specifications.
Regent Baker expressed his considerable concern that the
designers and construction consultants for the building have
made such a large error in the steel specifications which now
puts the University in a very difficult position.
Regent Power shared the concern expressed by Regent Baker.
Regent Nederlander asked whether the redesign work had
cost any additional money. Vice President Brinkerhoff explained
that there was no actual redesign, only a change in specifications,
thus no additional funds were expended for design. Additional
expenditures would be required, however, for the special steel
erection consultants, who had reviewed the specifications.
Regent Nederlander asked if the new specifications would
significantly alter the bids on the steel. Vice-President Brinkerhoff said that all bids would be reduced by the same amount
because the only change involved would be a reduction in the
total tonnage of steel. He explained in a response to a question
from Regent Roach that this reduction would bring the bid closer
to the original budget estimate.
Regent Power asked whether a different building design
might have affected the bids. Vice-President Brinkerhoff responded that a different design would indeed affect the bids. The
change being discussed, however, was not a different design but
a change in specifications.
Regent Varner wondered what the specific dollar reduction
in the bid would be. It was explained that the specific reduction
would be known after negotiation with the low bidder.
Regent Roach observed that had the bids come in under
budget, the change in specifications might have never occurred.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated that the planners had




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


171


noted the problem of excess steel at the time the construction
documents were provided to the bidders.
Regent Baker said that it was known months ago that the bed
tower would be a lighter building than the diagnostic and treatment facility and the design should have reflected that fact then.
Regent Dunn commented that the Regents had received
several communications about the fact that the low bid for steel
erection came from an out-of-state firm. He had responded to
those inquiries by stating that even though the bid was from outof-state, most of the expenditures would be made through
in-state firms.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated that such a response
would be correct except for the cost of the raw steel. That cost
of approximately $6.6 million would be associated with out-ofstate suppliers which would be true of all the bidders. The low
bidder had indicated that the erection (approximately $3 million),
decking (approximately $1-$1.5 million), and truss work (approximately $1.5 million) would be subcontracted to in-state
firms. On the fabrication (approximately $2.5-$3 million) would
be done by the out-of-state bidder.
In response to a further inquiry by Regent Dunn, Mr.
Brinkerhoff stated that all of the construction contracts let so
far on the project had been with Michigan firms. They total $4
million.
Regent Brown asked how much more would be expended in
Michigan if Bid Pack #5 was awarded to an in-state firm. The
response was $2.5 to $3 million.
Regent Baker wondered whether the whole bidding process
ought to be reopened.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff stated that the change in specifications would not be sufficient reason for rebidding the project.
Regent Roach stated that the Board should know that he had
represented two of the bidding firms but that it had occurred
more than five years ago.
He further offered the opinion that rebidding might indeed
trigger a legal challenge. He felt that abandoning the principle
of accepting low bids would be unfortunate and could be to our
disadvantage later on.
Regent Varner wondered whether the University would save
any money by accepting a bid for an in-state firm.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated that there would not
be any savings by doing that.
Regent Power expressed her deep concern about apparent
design errors and the unfortunate position in which the Regents




172


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


were now placed. She explained that the Regents were not assigning blame but wished to be sure that a correct decision had been
reached with respect to the review of the specifications.
A brief recess occurred at Regent Power's request.
After reconvening, Regent Dunn moved that contingent
upon successful negotiations with the low bidder, the following
recommendations to award contracts associated with Bid Pack
#5 be approved: A construction contract to Owen Steel, Columbia, South Carolina, for the structural steel component in an
amount not to exceed $15,090,000; a construction contract to
Kenton Structural and Ornamental Iron Work, Kenton, Ohio,
for the stairs component; and a construction contract to Harlan
Electric Co., Southfield, Michigan, for the temporary electrical
component.
Regent Varner seconded the motion.
Regent Dunn commented that the Regents must keep in mind
several interests in making decisions. There is a taxpayer interest which in this case means a saving of $500,000 by accepting
the low bid. There is a University interest that has been well
served by adherence to the low bid principle. Successor Regents
would be in a difficult position if that principle were now
abandoned.
Regent Brown expressed the contrary view stating that there
are more costs that will be incurred by the State with an out-state
bidder. He believes that awarding bids to Michigan firms is
appropriate in the special economic circumstances in which the
State now finds itself. Thus, he would vote against the motion.
Regent Baker clarified the fact that by accepting the low bid
only $2.5 million would go to out-of-state firms and he expressed
his hope that everyone would clearly understand this.
President Shapiro then expressed his conviction that adherence to the low bid principle would best serve the long-run
interests of the State, University, and health service consumer.
The motion was then adopted with Regent Brown voting
against.
Re Bid   Vice-President Brinkerhoff then explained the details assoPackage #6 ciated with Bid Pack #6 which involved contracts for foundation work. He noted that the foundations were being broadened
to accommodate certain program changes which will incorporate
certain elements of the additional $75 million project. These
changes will be incorporated into future budget projections. He
reviewed briefly the savings being accomplished through the
owner-controlled insurance program associated with the hospital
project.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


173


Regent Baker then moved approval to award the following
contracts associated with Bid Pack #6: a construction contract
to Walbridge, Aldinger Co., Livonia, Michigan, for the foundations component; a construction contract to Fel-Kran Plumbing
& Heating, Ann Arbor, Michigan, for the mechanical component;
and a construction contract to Dunn Electric Co., Ann Arbor,
Michigan, for the electrical component. The motion was seconded
by Regent Varner and adopted.
Regent Baker moved to approve the establishment of a col- vWehmeyer
legiate professorship to be known as the Lewis E. Wehmeyer and  Professorship
Elaine Prince Wehmeyer Professorship in Fungal Taxonomy.
Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Brown then moved approval of the amendments to Degrees,
amended,
the degree lists, confirmation of the August 1981 Law School confirmed,
degrees and the recommendations for the Distinguished Alumni recommendations
Service awards. The motion was seconded by Regent Dunn and
adopted.
All of the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of November totaled $888.31.
The Regents adjourned to meet on January 14 and 15, 1982.
RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary




174


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


INDEX
Alumni Center, financing for, 159
Appointments, 152, 154; committee, 153
Ardis, E. W., retirement, 156
Bylaw Revisions re University Hospital:
Medical School, sections 11.131, 11.132, 11.136; Dental School,
sections 11.041; Medical Center, section 11.12; UM Hospitals,
sections 11.15, 11.151, 11.151A, 11.151B, 11.152, 11.153, 11.154,
11.155; Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics, section 11.214
Davisson, C. N. retirement, 156
Degrees: lists amended, 158; Law School degrees confirmed, 173, distinguished alumni service awards approved, 173
Financing for, Michigan Union, UM-Flint Physical Education, Alumni
Center, and Power Center addition buildings, 159
Flint: financing for Physical Education building, 159; Twenty-fifth anniversary resolution, 147
Gerontology, Institute of, acting director appointed, 169
Gifts, 148
Hospital: admitting privileges, 169; replacement hospital bid package #4,
160; bid package #5, 170; bid package #6, 172
Medical Staff appointments, 169
Promotions, 152, 155
Power Center addition, financing for, 159
Public Comments, 161
Physical Therapy Program, 145, 161
Resignations, 155
Scott, R. C., retirement, 157
Wehmeyer, E. P., collegiate professorship established, 173




APPENDIX A


RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF BONDS IN
THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF $11,200,000 TO FINANCE THE
COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION OF FIVE BUILDING
PROJECTS ON THE ANN ARBOR AND FLINT CAMPUSES
OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND TO PROVIDE
FOR THE PAYMENT AND SECURITY OF THE BONDS AND
OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order
to properly serve the needs of students attending The University of Michigan, the Regents of The University of Michigan (the terms "Regents"
and "University" hereinafter refer to the Regents or the University or
both as the context permits or requires) have deemed it necessary and
advisable to authorize certain projects, hereinafter referenced, which are
either now under construction or are completed, and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order
to properly serve the interests of students attending the University, and
to prudently control and direct expenditures of the University's funds
and manage the University's outstanding debt, the Regents deem it
necessary and advisable to issue Construction Fee Bonds (hereinafter
defined as the "Bonds") in the principal amount of Eleven Million Two
Hundred Thousand Dollars for the purpose of providing interim financing
for the costs of acquiring, constructing, furnishing and equipping these
projects, i.e., five building projects on the Ann Arbor and Flint campuses
of the University, as follows:
Referenced,
Described,               University's  Present
and                   Anticipated   Balance
Authorized      Total     Source of   Financed
Name of       Regents       Cost of     Project     By Bond
Project    Resolution of   Project      Funds      Proceeds
1) Flint
Physical
Education
Facility   May 15, 1980    $ 8,045,000 Student Fees $1,525,000
2) Michigan
Union
Renovation
Project    Dec. 18, 1981     4,600,000 Student Fees  4,264,000
3) Herbert H.
Dow Bldg. Mar. 21, 1980     11,125,000 Pledges      2,300,000
4) Alumni
Center     As amended on
Building   Dec. 18, 1981    3,500,000 Pledges        725,000
5) Power
Center
Addition   June 20, 1980    2,038,000 Pledges        950,000*
Total To Be Financed    $9,764,000
* Recovery of University general funds advanced for construction.


175




176


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


collectively the "Project," and paying the expenses incidental to the
issuance of the Bonds including funding a necessary Reserve Fund for
the Bonds in the amount of the average annual principal and interest
payable on the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the financing of the Projects will serve proper and
appropriate public purposes; and
WHEREAS, the University has previously incurred obligations secured
by a pledge of and first lien against Student Fees, subject to the right
to incur additional obligations similarly secured, upon condtion specified
in the resolutions authorizing said previously incurred obligations, essentially as follows, to wit:
"The total amount of Student Fees collected by the University
in each of its last two preceding complete Fiscal Years prior to
the issuance of such additional Parity Obligations are equal to at
least 200% percent of the maximum annual principal and interest
requirements of the then outstanding Parity Obligations and the
proposed additional Parity Obligations during any future Fiscal
Year the proposed additional Parity Obligations are scheduled to be
outstanding."
WHEREAS, all conditions and requirements precedent to the issuance
of the Bonds have been met, as shown by audit reports of the University
for each of its last two preceding fiscal years, 1979-80 and 1980-81; and
WHEREAS, the Regents have been created as a constitutional body
corporate under the provisions of Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan
Constitution of 1963, and the Regents have full power under their
constitutional authority and supervision of the University, and control and
direction of expenditures from the University funds, to construct the
Projects, to manage the cash flow requirements of the Projects by providing interim financing for the acquisition and completion of construction of the Projects by issuance of the Bonds, and to pledge Student
Fees for payment of the Bonds;
Now, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
In addition to the terms defined in the preambles to the Resolution,
the following terms shall have, unless the context otherwise requires, the
meanings herein specified:
"Bond" or "Bonds" means the $11,200,000 principal amount of
Regents of The University of Michigan Construction Fee Bonds to be
issued under the Resolution.
"Bond Fund" means The University of Michigan Construction Fee
Bond Fund established by Section 402 hereof.
"Bondholder" or "holder" (when used with reference to Bonds)
means the bearer of any Bond not registered as to principal and the
registered owner of any Bond registered as to principal and "holder"
(when used with reference to coupons) shall mean the bearer of such
coupons.
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the University, beginning on
July 1 and ending on June 30.
"Funds Legally Available Therefor" means any moneys of the
University that may be legally used by the University to pay principal




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


177


of, and interest on, the Bonds, but shall rot include any funds (a) currently or subsequently pledged for, or committed to present or future
loans or other purposes to the extent so pledged or committed, or (b) the
use of which would result in the loan herein authorized being construed
as indebtedness of the State of Michigan under the Michigan Constitution
of 1963.
"Interest Payment Date" means each April 1 and October 1, commencing April 1, 1982, during the period the Bonds are outstanding.
"Investment Income" means and includes all interest or profit, when
received, earned through the investment or reinvestment of all moneys
in the Project Fund, the Bond Fund, and the Reserve Fund.
The terms "outstanding" or "Bonds outstanding" mean, as of any
date, all Bonds theretofore or then being delivered under the Resolution,
except Bonds theretofore acquired by the University and cancelled, and
except further that no Bonds shall be deemed outstanding where the
University shall have made provision for payment of all Bonds in
accordance with the Resolution by depositing into the Bond Fund cash
or direct obligations of the United States of America, the principal of
and interest on which when due will be sufficient to pay the principal
and interest on the Bonds as the same becomes due through maturity,
and shall have promptly thereafter given notice of such provision for
payment to the holders of all Bonds registered as to principal and to
each holder of bearer bonds who has requested such notice in writing,
by certified or registered mail postage prepaid, addressed to the last
known address of such bondholder as it appears on the bond register or
list maintained by the Paying Agent for such purpose.
"Parity Obligations" means the Bonds and any other debts or obligations of the University secured by a pledge of and first lien against
Student Fees, including the existing Parity Obligations specified in Section
501 and any additional Parity Obligations hereafter issued by the University from time to time in accordance with the terms of the Resolution.
"Projects" means the projects referenced in the preambles hereto.
"Paying Agent" means the Paying Agent appointed at the time of
sale of the Bonds or any successor Paying Agent in accordance with the
provisions of Section 1102.
"Project Fund" means The University of Michigan Construction
Project Fund established by Section 401 hereof.
"Regents" means the Regents of The University of Michigan, a
constitutional body corporate having general supervision of the University
and control and direction of all expenditures from its funds.
"Reserve Fund" means The University of Michigan Construction
Fee Bond Reserve Fund established by Section 403 hereof.
"Resolution" means this resolution and any other resolutions
amendatory or supplementary hereto in accordance with the terms hereof.
"Student Fees" means the general tuition fees established from
time to time by the University, and collected from the students attending
any campus of the University which fees range in 1981-82 from a minimum of $1,616 per term for an undergraduate resident student to
$7,880 per term for a non-resident full time medical student.
"University" means The University of Michigan and/or the Regents
as the context requires or permits.




178


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


ARTICLE II
THE PROJECTS
SECTION 201 Use of Bond Proceeds. The University will utilize
the principal of the proceeds of the Bonds as follows:
(a) Interim financing for the balance of construction cost (or
recovering University general funds so advanced), in the following
approximate amount for each Project:
'Construction Balance
Project                          or Recovery
Flint Physical Education Facility            $1,525,000
Michigan Union Renovation Project            4,264,000
Herbert H. Dow Building                      2,300,000
Alumni Center Building                         725,000
Power Center Addition                          950,000
Total    $9,764,000
(b) Funding the Reserve Fund initially
in the amount of the average annual principal and interest
payable on the Bonds (estimated at approximately $1,380,000),
which reserve will then decline as the annual principal and interest
payable on the Bonds declines; and
(c) Paying the issuance costs of the Bonds in the estimated
amount of $56,000.
SECTION 202 Necessity for Issuance of the Bonds. The Regents
in the exercise of their powers and authority relative to the general
supervision of the University and control and direction of all expenditures
from the University's funds, as provided in Article VIII, Section 5 of
the Michigan Constitution of 1963, hereby determine that the issuance of
the Bonds for the purposes set forth in Section 201 and the preambles
hereto is necessary and advisable in order to enable the Regents to
manage the cash flow requirements of the Projects by providing interim
financing for the completion of acquisition and construction of Projects
which, in the case of the Herbert H. Dow Building, the Alumni Center
Building, and the Power Center Addition, will be supported primarily
from gift receipts of the University and, in the case of the Flint Physical
Education Facility and the Michigan Union Renovation Project, will
be supported primarily by the allocation of Student Fees.
SECTION 203 Cost and Date of Completing Construction of the
Projects. The completion of construction of the Projects is estimated to
cost $9,764,000 (including reimbursement to the University of general
funds advanced to complete the Power Center Addition) and the
interim financing of their completion in accordance with the preambles
and the outline set forth in Section 201 is hereby approved. Construction
of the Power Center Addition is complete. Construction of the other
Projects is underway and it is estimated that they will be completed as
follows:
Estimated
Project                       Completion Date
Flint Physical Education Facility            May, 1982
Michigan Union Renovation Project         January, 1984
Herbert H. Dow Building                   January, 1983
Alumni Center Building                    October, 1982




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


179


SECTION 204 Estimated Period of Usefulness of the Projects. The
estimated period of usefulness of each of the Projects to be financed with
the proceeds of the Bonds is determined to be no less than twenty-two
years, the final maturity of the Bonds.
ARTICLE III
THE BONDS
SECTION 301 Authorization of the Issuance of the Bonds. For the
purposes set forth in Article II, there shall be borrowed Eleven Million
Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($11,200,000), and in evidence thereof
there shall be issued in such amount the Bonds of the Regents which
shall be designated "Construction Fee Bonds."
SECTION 302 Limited Obligation and Other Bond Terms. The
Bonds shall be limited obligations of the Regents equally and ratably and
solely secured by Student Fees and any moneys in the Bond Fund or
Reserve Fund, and the Bonds shall not be a debt or liability of the State
of Michigan or a general obligation of the University.
The Bonds shall be dated February 1, 1982, shall bear interest from
the date thereof payable April 1 and October 1, commencing April 1,
1982, until payment of the Bonds or provision therefor and bear interest
at a rate or rates to be determined at the time of sale, and shall mature
serially on April 1 of each year in the principal amounts, as follows:
Year            Amount            Year           Amount
1983          $ 970,000           1996          $670,000
1984           1,155,000          1997           235,000
1985           1,535,000          1998           260,000
1986             320,000          1999           290,000
1987             345,000          2000           325,000
1988             365,000          2001           360,000
1989             390,000          2002           405,000
1990             535,000          2003           450,000
1991             310,000          2004           825,000
1992             445,000
1993             295,000
1994             335,000
1995             380,000
The Bonds shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity as provided
in the form of the Bonds set forth in Section 304. Provision for payment
of the Bonds in accordance with the terms of the Resolution may be made
prior to maturity, at which time of provision for payment the Bonds shall
cease to be deemed outstanding under the Resolution.
The Bonds shall be issued in the form of coupon Bonds in the
denomination of $5,000 and shall be numbered consecutively from 1 to
2,240. The Bonds may be registered as to principal only and exchanged in
the manner and with the effect as provided in the form of the Bonds set
forth in Section 304. The principal and interest on the Bonds shall be
payable upon presentation and surrender of the Bonds and interest coupons
as they respectively become due at the principal office of the Paying
Agent and payment shall be made in lawful money of the United States
of America.
SECTION 303 Execution and Delivery. The Bonds shall be signed
in the name of and on behalf of the University by its Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer or its Controller, shall have its corporate seal
affixed thereto, and the coupons attached to the Bonds shall be executed




180


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


by facsimile signature of the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of the University printed, lithographed, or engraved thereon. The Bonds
shall be delivered by the Controller to the purchaser thereof in New
York, New York, Chicago, Illinois, Detroit, Michigan, or Ann Arbor,
Michigan upon payment of the purchase price.
SECTION 304 Form of Bonds. The Bonds shall be lithographed
or printed on steel-engraved borders, may bear such legends as may be
required to comply with any law or general usage, and shall otherwise
be in the following form, with such appropriate variations, omissions, and
insertions as are permitted or required by the Resolution:
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
CONSTRUCTION FEE BOND
$5,000                                                No............
The Regents of The University of Michigan, a body corporate
created by and existing under the Constitution of the State of Michigan
(hereinafter sometimes called the "University") for value received,
promises to pay to the bearer hereof, or if this bond be registered, to
the registered owner, the sum of
FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
on the first day of April,............. with interest thereon from the date
hereof until maturity, at the rate of................................... percent
(............ %) per annum, payable on the first day of April and October
of each year, commencing April 1, 1982, upon presentation and surrender
of the proper interest coupons hereto annexed as they severally become
due. Both principal of and interest on this bond are payable in lawful
money of the United States of America at the principal office of..:......................................................................  (the
"Paying Agent").
This bond is one of an issue of 2,240 bonds (the "Bonds") of even
date and like tenor, aggregating the principal sum of $11,200,000 (the
"Bonds") all issued pursuant to resolutions adopted by the Regents of
the University on December....... 1981 and................. 1982 (collectively
the "Resolution") for the purpose of enabling the University to manage
its cash flow requirements by providing interim financing for the completion of acquisition, construction, equipping, and furnishing of (i) the Flint
Physical Education Facility, (ii) the Michigan Union Renovation Project,
(iii) the Herbert H. Dow Building and (iv) the Alumni Center Building
and recovering general funds so advanced for (v) the Power Center
Addition, and paying costs incidental to the issuance of the Bonds, including a reserve fund for the Bonds, all in accordance with the authority
vested in the University by law, particularly Article VIII, Section 5 of the
Michigan Constitution of 1963.
The Bonds, including this bond, are equally and ratably secured by
an irrevocable pledge of Student Fees for tuition collected from the
students attending the University. The University has covenanted and
agreed to establish, maintain, and collect Student Fees from each student,
so that the total of such Student Fees collected will be in an amount
sufficient to provide annually sums equal to at least 200% of the maximum annual debt service requirements on the Bonds and other obligations
payable therefrom when due in accordance wih the requirements therefor.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981                        181
For a complete statement of the purposes for which the Bonds are
issued, the Student Fees from which and the conditions under which this
Bond is payable, the general covenants and provisions pursuant to which
this Bond is issued, the outstanding obligations of the University which
have an equal claim on the Student Fees with the Bonds, the rights of the
holders of the Bonds, and the right of the University to issue additional
obligations of equal standing and priority of lien on the Student Fees with
the Bonds, and the terms and conditions under which this Bond and the
Bonds, or any part thereof, shall be deemed to be no longer outstanding,
reference is made to the Resolution.
Bonds of this issue shall be subject to redemption as a whole or in
part prior to maturity, at the option of the University, on any interest
payment date on or after April 1, 1992 at the respective redemption
prices (expressed as percentages of the principal amount hereof) set forth
below, plus accrued interest to the date of redemption.
Redemption Dates:                       Redemption Prices
April 1, 1992 and October 1, 1992                  103%
April 1, 1993 and October 1, 1993                  1021/2%
April 1, 1994 and October 1, 1994                  102%
April 1, 1995 and October 1, 1995                  1011/2%
April 1, 1996 and October 1, 1996                  101%
April 1, 1997 and October 1, 1997                  100~/2%
April 1, 1998 and thereafter                       100%
If less than all of the outstanding Bonds are called for redemption, as
herein provided, the Bonds shall be called for redemption in inverse
numerical order.
Thirty days notice of call of any Bonds for redemption shall be
given by the University by publication in a newspaper or financial journal
published in the City of New York, New York, which carries as part of
its regular service notices of sale of municipal bonds. The University shall
send a copy of such notice to the registered holder of each Bond registered
as to principal and to each holder of a bearer Bond who has requested
such notice in writing, by certified or registered mail postage prepaid,
addressed to the last known address of such bondholder as it appears upon
the bond register or list maintained by the Paying Agent for such purpose,
not later than 30 days prior to the date fixed for redemption; but failure
to give any such notice by mailing, or any defect therein, shall not affect
the validity of any proceeding for the redemption of any Bond with
respect to which such failure has occurred. Notice need not be published
if all Bonds to be redeemed are registered as to principal and 30 days
notice is mailed to each registered holder. Bonds so called for redemption
shall not bear interest after the date fixed for redemption provided sufficient funds are on deposit with the Paying Agent to redeem the Bonds
called for redemption on the date fixed for redemption, and shall cease to
be deemed outstanding under the provisions of the Resolution and shall
cease to be entitled to any source of payment, security or benefit under the
Resolution other than the right to receive payment from the funds
deposited with the Paying Agent.
This Bond may cease to be deemed outstanding under the Resolution
if the University at any time makes provision for payment of all Bonds
by depositing with the Paying Agent cash or direct obligations of the
United States of America, the principal of and interest on which when
due, will be sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on the Bonds
as the same become due by maturity. Notice of such provision for payment shall be promptly thereafter sent to the registered holder of each
Bond registered as to principal and to each holder of a bearer Bond who




182            DECEMBER MEETING, 1981
has requested such notice in writing, by certified or registered mail postage
prepaid, addressed to the last known address of such bondholder as it
appears upon the bond register or list maintained by the Paying Agent
for such purpose. Upon the happening of the above conditions, the Bonds
shall cease to be entitled to any source of payment, security, or benefit
under the Resolution other than the right to receive payment from the
aforesaid cash or direct obligations placed with the Paying Agent.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal amount
of or interest on this Bond or any claim based thereon against the State
of Michigan, the University, or any member of the University, or any
officer or agent thereof, as individuals, either directly or indirectly; nor
shall these obligations become a lien on or secured by any property, real,
personal, or mixed, of the State of Michigan or the University, other than
the Student Fees, as defined in the Resolution, which are pledged to meet
or provide for the payment of said obligations; and the liability of the
University, as a body corporate, shall be limited to said Student Fees, all
other liability, except as expressed in the Resolution, being by the
acceptance hereof and as a part of the consideration for the issuance
hereof expressly waived.
This Bond is transferable by delivery unless registered as to principal
in the owner's name upon books to be kept by the Paying Agent for
such purpose, such registration to be noted hereon. After such registration
no transfer of this Bond shall be valid unless made on said books at the
request of the registered owner hereof, or his duly authorized agent, and
similarly noted hereon; but this Bond may be discharged from registration
by being in like manner transferred to bearer, whereupon transferability
by delivery shall be restored, and this Bond may again from time to time
be registered or made payable to bearer as before. Such registration,
however, shall not affect the negotiability of the annexed coupons, which
shall always be transferable by delivery and be payable to bearer, and
payment to bearer thereof shall fully discharge the University in respect
to the interest thereon, whether or not this Bond be registered as to principal and whether or not such coupons be overdue.
IT Is HEREBY CERTIFIED AND RECITED that all acts and conditions
required to be done, to happen, or to be performed precedent to and in
the issuance of this Bond, have been done, have happened, and have been
performed in due time, form, and manner, as required by law.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Regents of The University of Michigan
has caused this Bond to be signed for it and in its behalf by its Controller
and its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed, and has caused the annexed
interest coupons to be executed and authenticated by the facsimile signature of is Vice President and Chief Financial Officer all as of the first day
of February, A.D., 1982.
REGENTS OF
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
B y.............................................................
Its Controller


(SEAL)




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


183


(Form of Coupon)
N o................                                $........................
On October (April) 1, 19...... unless the bond hereinafter mentioned
shall have been duly called for previous redemption, the REGENTS OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN promise to pay to bearer from Student Fees as
defined in the Resolution, pursuant to which said bond is issued, the sum
of................................................................ Dollars, lawful money of the
United States of America, at the principal office of............................................................................................................ being the interest due that
date on THE UNIVERSrrY OF MICHIGAN, CONSTRUCTION FEE BOND, dated
February 1, 1982, No.................
REGENTS OF
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
B y..............................................................
REGISTRATION
NOTHING TO BE WRITTEN HEREON EXCEPT BY THE PAYING AGENT


Date of              Name of                Signature
Registration       Registered Owner       of Paying Agent


SECTION 305 Replacement of Bonds. Subject to applicable State
of Michigan law, in case a Bond or any coupons belonging thereto shall
be mutilated, lost, stolen, or destroyed, then upon production of such
mutilated Bond or coupon or evidence satisfactory to the Paying Agent
and the University of the loss, theft, or destruction of such Bond and the
coupons attached hereto, and receipt of indemnity satisfactory to the
University and the Paying Agent, the University, in its discretion, may
execute and deliver a substitute Bond and coupons in exchange for and
upon cancellation of the Bond which has been mutilated, or in lieu of
the Bond which has been lost, stolen, or destroyed. The Paying Agent and
the University may require payment by the owner of such Bond or
coupons of a sum sufficient to reimburse them for any expense incurred
in the preparation and issuance of such substitute Bond or coupons.
SECTION 306 Cancellation of Bonds and Coupons. All Bonds
which have been retired by muturiay, redemption, or purchase by the
University and all paid coupons shall be cancelled by the Paying Agent
and delivered to the University.
ARTICLE IV
ESTABLISHMENT OF FUNDS
SECTION 401 Establishment of Project Fund. There is hereby
created and established the Project Fund, which shall be a sub-account




184            DECEMBER MEETING, 1981
within a general banking account of the University designated by the
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. There shall be deposited in the
Project Fund all proceeds from the sale of the Bonds, except premium
and accrued interest to be deposited in the Bond Fund pursuant to Section
402 and the proceeds deposited in the Reserve Fund pursuant to Section
403. All moneys in the Project Fund shall be used for the purposes and
disbursed as provided in Article VI.
SECTION 402 Establishment of Bond Fund. There is hereby
created and established with the Paying Agent the Bond Fund. There
shall be deposited in the Bond Fund:
1. Any accrued interest or premium received at the time of delivery
of the Bonds.
2. Student Fees as pledged and required to be paid into the Bond
Fund at the times and in the amounts provided in Section 502.
3. All Funds Legally Available Therefor authorized or permitted to
be paid into the Bond Fund pursuant to Section 503.
4. All Investment Income.
5. Any moneys remaining in the Project Fund after the disbursements provided for in Article VI.
6. Any moneys required to be deposited in the Bond Fund from the
Reserve Fund as provided in Section 604.
All moneys in the Bond Fund shall be used for the purposes and disbursed as provided in Article VI.
SECTION 403 Establishment of Reserve Fund. There is hereby
created and established with the Paying Agent the Reserve Fund. There
shall be deposited in the Reserve Fund from the proceeds of the sale
of the Bonds a sum equal to the average annual principal and interest
payable on the Bonds. All moneys in the Reserve Fund shall be used
for the purposes and disbursed as provided in Article VI.
ARTICLE V
SOURCES OF PAYMENT AND SECURITY FOR THE BONDS
SECTION 501 Security for the Bonds. The Bonds are not debts
or general obligations of the State of Michigan, nor general obligations
of the University, but are limited obligations of the University equally
and ratably secured only by the following:
1. All moneys in the Bond Fund;
2. All moneys in the Reserve Fund;
3. Student Fees and the University's right to receive Student Fees;
and
4. All of the proceeds of the foregoing.
The University hereby pledges and grants to the Bondholders a security
interest in all of the foregoing, and in order to assure this security the
University covenants and agrees that the Bondholders shall have a first
lien on all moneys in the Bond Fund and Reserve Fund, and that the
Bondholders shall have a first lien against Student Fees of equal standing
and priority of lien with the pledge of Student Fees for other Parity
Obligations, including additional Parity Obligations which the University
reserves the right to issue under Article VII and the existing (as of
November 30, 1981) Parity Obligations of the University, as follows:




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


185


1. University Events Building Bonds
Original Amount-$5,800,000
Dated-February 1, 1966
Final Maturity-April 1, 1996
Amount Outstanding (November 30, 1981)-$3,670,000
2. Graduate Library Building Bonds
Original Amount-$2,000,000
Dated-July 1, 1969
Final Maturity-April 1, 1999
Amount Outstanding (November 30, 1981)-$1,400,000
3. Recreational Activities Building Fee Bonds*
Original Amount-$6,170,000
Dated-August 1, 1975
Final Maturity-April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (November 30, 1981)-$5,570,000
[*Qualified to the extent that certain investment securities
acquired with the proceeds of the hereinafter referenced
$6,590,000 Recreational Activities Buildings Fee Refunding
Bonds are sufficient to retire the outstanding Recreational Activities Building Fee Bonds as they mature or are subject to redemption on October 1, 1985.]
4. Flint Parking Facility-Term Loan
Original Amount-$280,000
Dated-September 21, 1976
Final Maturity-April 1, 1982
Amount Outstanding (November 30, 1981)-$10,000
5. Recreational Activities Buildings Fee Refunding Bonds
Original Amount-$6,590,000
Dated-July 1, 1977
Final Maturity-April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (November 30, 1981)-$6,590,000
6. Dearborn Recreational Buildings Fee Refunding Bonds
Original Amount-$3,500,000
Dated-April 1, 1978
Final Maturity-April 1, 2008
Amount Outstanding (November 30, 1981)-$3,500,000
7. Student Loan Fund-Term Loan
Original Amount-$1,500,000
Dated-August 1, 1978
Final Maturity-April 1, 1982
Amount Outstanding (November 30, 1981)-$1,500,000
8. Michigan League Repair and Renovation-Term Loan
Original Amount-$250,000
Dated-February 20, 1979
Final Maturity-April 1, 1984
Amount Outstanding (November 30, 1981)-$160,000
9. Computer Center Term Loan
Original Amount-$2,400,000
Dated-March 20, 1979
Final Maturity-April 1, 1983
Amount Outstanding (November 30, 1981)-$1,270,000




186


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


10. Dearborn Campus Project Fee Bonds
Original Amount-$10,180,000
Dated-July 1, 1979
Final Maturity-April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (November 30, 1981)-$10,180,000
11. Flint University Center Term Loan
Original Amount-$400,000
Dated-September 22, 1979
Final Maturity-April 1, 1986
Amount Outstanding (November 30, 1981)-$310,000
12. North Ingalls Building Fee Bonds
Orignal Amount-$2,900,000
Dated-April 1, 1981
Final Maturity-April 1, 1991
Amount Outstanding (November 30, 1981)-$2,900,000
13. Parking Structure Fee Bonds
Original Amount-$7,000,000
Dated-October 1, 1981
Final Maturity-April 1, 2002
Amount Outstanding (November 30, 1981)-$7,000,000
SECTION 502 Student Fees as Source of Payment of Bonds. To the
extent that on the fifth day preceding any Interest Payment Date the
moneys then on deposit in the Bond Fund are not sufficient to meet the
interest or principal and interest payment coming due on such Interest
Payment Date, the University shall, commencing March 26, 1982, and
on each subsequent fifth day preceding each Interest Payment Date while
the Bonds remaining outstanding, pay into the Bond Fund an amount of
Student Fees sufficient to pay the interest or principal and interest payment
coming due on such Interest Payment Date.
SECTION 503  Funds Legally Available Therefor as Source of Payment for the Bonds. The University reserves the right to use any Funds
Legally Available Therefor for the purpose of paying principal or interest
on the Bonds.
ARTICLE VI
FLOW AND USE OF FUNDS
SECTION 601  Application of Bond Proceeds. Immediately upon
the receipt thereof, the proceeds of the sale of the Bonds shall be apportioned among and deposited in the Project Fund, the Bond Fund and the
Reserve Fund in the following manner:
1. Any accrued interest and premium received on sale of the Bonds
shall be deposited in the Bond Fund;
2. A sum equal to the average annual principal and interest payable
on the Bonds shall be deposited in the Reserve Fund; and
3. The balance of the proceeds of the Bonds shall be deposited in
the Project Fund.
SECTION 602   Use of and Disbursements from   Project Fund.
Moneys in the Project Fund shall be used pursuant to the following
priorities:
1. Payment of accounting, financial consulting, legal, printing, and
other expenses of the University's in connection with the preparation, issuance, sale, and delivery of the Bonds;




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981                       187
2. Reimbursement to the University for general funds expended in
connection with construction of the Power Center Addition; and
3. Payments necessary to provide interim financing for the costs of
completing the acquisition, construction, furnishing, and equipping
of the other Projects.
Any amount remaining in the Project Fund after satisfaction of the foregoing priorities shall be promptly transferred to the Bond Fund. The
depository for the Project Fund shall make disbursements from the Project
Fund upon the order of the University, and shall have no duty or liability
with respect to the manner or method in which moneys are withdrawn
by the University from the Project Fund or in fact are used or applied
by the University.
SECTION 603 Use of and Disbursements from Bond Fund. The
Paying Agent shall use moneys in the Bond Fund to pay principal and
interest on the Bonds as the same become due and the Bonds or coupons
evidencing the same are presented and surrendered. The Paying Agent
may use moneys in the Bond Fund for the acquisition of Bonds in the
open market at the written direction of the University. Any amount remaining in the Bond Fund after the Bonds have been paid or provision
made therefor under the Resolution shall be returned to the University.
SECTION 604 Size and Use of and Disbursements from Reserve
Fund. As the principal of the Bonds is paid and at such time as the
average annual principal and interest payable on the Bonds begins to
decline the amount of funds required to be deposited in the Reserve
Fund shall be reduced on April 1 of each year to equal the average
annual principal and interest then payable on the Bonds, and the excess
shall be transferred to the Bond Fund, provided, however, that in no
event shall the sum required to be deposited in the Reserve Fund be less
than $600,000. If at any time there are not sufficient funds in the Bond
Fund for the payment of the principal of or interest on the Bonds as the
same become due, the Paying Agent shall withdraw from the Reserve
Fund and deposit in the Bond Fund sufficient moneys which when
added to the moneys in the Bond Fund will be sufficient to meet the
payment of principal of and interest then due on the Bonds. The University covenants and agrees that if at any time moneys are withdrawn from
the Reserve Fund for such purpose, there shall be promptly deposited
from time to time in the Reserve Fund from the first Student Fees received thereafter which are not required to make principal or interest
payments on Parity Obligations, a sum sufficient to replace the amount
so withdrawn to the level then required. To the extent that Student Fees
shall not be sufficient for such replacement and for the replacement of
withdrawals from reserves for other Parity Obligations of the University,
the amount deposited in the Reserve Fund in accordance herewith shall
be in proportion to the total requirements for replacement of withdrawals
from reserves for other Parity Obligations and shall be measured by the
principal amount of Parity Obligations at the time outstanding.
At the written direction of the University the moneys in the Reserve
Fund shall be finally transferred to the Bond Fund by the Paying Agent
and applied in payment of the Bonds and interest thereon at such time as
the balance in the Reserve Fund, together with any amount in the Bond
Fund shall be finally transferred to the Bond Fund by the Paying Agent
including interest thereon through maturity, and payment of all fees and
expenses owing to the Paying Agent. Any balance remaining thereafter
in the Reserve Fund shall be returned to the University by the Paying
Agent.
SECTION 605 Investments. Moneys held for the credit of the Bond
Fund and the Reserve Fund not required for immediate use or disburse



188            DECEMBER MEETING, 1981
ment shall, as nearly as may be practicable, be continuously invested and
reinvested by the Paying Agent in accordance with the written direction
of the University in the following investments:
1. Direct obligations of the United States of America or the State of
Michigan or in obligations, the principal and interest of which
are unconditionally guaranteed by the United States of America
or the State of Michigan; or
2. Interest bearing savings account or accounts or certificates of
deposit of any bank whose deposits are insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation.
Moneys in the Project Fund shall be invested at the direction of the
Regents in any investments legally available for University funds.
The above investments shall mature not later than the respective
dates estimated when the moneys in said Funds shall be needed for the
purposes provided in the Resolution. All investments may be sold at the
prevailing market price. All investments shall be deemed a part of the
Fund with whose moneys they were acquired, and all profits and losses
shall be charged to such Fund; provided, however, that all Investment
Income as received shall be deposited in the Bond Fund.
SECTION 606 Arbitrage. The University shall not invest, reinvest,
or accumulate any moneys deemed to be proceeds of the Bonds pursuant
to ~103(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, and the
applicable regulations thereunder, in such a manner as to cause the
Bonds to be "arbitrage Bonds" within the meaning of said ~103(c) and
the applicable regulations thereunder.
ARTICLE VII
ADDITIONAL PARITY OBLIGATIONS AND DEFEASANCE
SECTION 701 Additional Parity Obligations. The University reserves the right to issue additional Parity Obligations for any authorized
purpose having equal standing and priority of lien against Student Fees
with the Bonds and other then existing Parity Obligations of the University, provided:
(a) the University by its Controller certifies that the total
amount of Student Fees collected by the University in each of its
last two preceding complete Fiscal Years prior to the issuance of
such proposed additional Parity Obligations are equal to at least
200% of the maximum annual principal and interest requirements of
the then outstanding Parity Obligations and the proposed additional
Parity Obligations during any future Fiscal Year the Bonds are
scheduled to be outstanding; and
(b) the proposed additional Parity Obligations shall be payable
as to principal only on April 1 of the year or years of maturity and
payable as to interest either annually or semiannually on April 1
or October 1 of such years.
SECTION 702 Defeasance. Upon payment into the Bond Fund of
the principal of and interest on the Bonds or provision for such payment
with cash or direct obligations of the United States of America the
principal of and interest on which when due will be sufficient to pay the
principal and interest on the Bonds as the same become due through
maturity and notice to the Bondholders as hereinbefore specified, the
Student Fees shall be released from the lien of the Resolution, the
University shall be released from the terms of the Resolution, and except
for payment thereof only from said cash or direct obligations of the
United States of America, the Bonds shall not be deemed to be outstanding.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981                       189
ARTICLE VIII
FURTHER COVENANTS AND LIMITATION ON RECOURSE OF BONDHOLDERS
The University covenants and agrees with the holders of the Bonds
as follows:
SECTION 801 Establishment and Maintenance of Student Fees. So
long as any of the Bonds shall remain outstanding, the University shall
establish and maintain Student Fees at amounts sufficient to provide
annually sums equal to at least two hundred percent (200%) of the
maximum future annual debt service requirements on all Parity Obligations.
SECTION 802 Audits and Records. The University shall keep and
maintain accurate books and records relating to the collection of Student
Fees and the allocation thereof, the enrollment of students in the University and the payments into the Bond Fund and Reserve Fund, which
said books and records shall be open for inspection by any holder of the
Bonds at any reasonable time. Said books and records shall be audited
annually by a certified public accountant and a copy of said audit sent
to the managers of the syndicate purchasing the Bonds from the University not later than four months after the end of each Fiscal Year.
SECTION 803 Payment of Bonds. The University shall, out of
Student Fees and moneys in the Bond Fund and Reserve Fund, duly and
punctually pay the principal of and interest on each Bond at the places,
on the dates and in the manner provided in the Bonds and in the coupons
appertaining thereto, according to the true intent and meaning thereof.
SECTION 804  Performance of Covenants; Authority. The University shall faithfully perform all of its covenants, undertakings, provisions,
and agreements contained in the Resolution and in any Bond executed
and delivered hereunder and in all other proceedings of the University
pertaining thereto. The University is duly authorized under the Constitution and laws of the State of Michigan to adopt the Resolution, to issue
the Bonds, to pledge Student Fees in the manner and to the extent herein
set forth, and to construct the Projects as contemplated by this Resolution;
all action on its part relating to the adoption of the Resolution and the
issuance, execution, and delivery of any Bonds has been or will be duly
and effectively taken prior to the delivery of such Bonds; and the Bonds
in the hands of the holders and owners thereof are and will be valid and
enforceable limited obligations of the University according to their terms.
SECTION 805 Further Assurances. The University shall, to the
extent authorized or permitted by law, do, adopt, make, execute, acknowledge, and deliver such further acts, resolutions, deeds, conveyances, pledges,
and assurances as may be necessary or desirable for the better assuring,
pledging, and confirming unto the Bondholders the Student Fees pledged
hereunder or intended so to be.
SECTION 806 Limited Recourse. There shall be no recourse under
any obligation, covenant, or agreement contained in the Resolution or any
Bond or coupon thereto attached against the State of Michigan, or the
University or any member or officer of the University, it being expressly
understood and agreed that the Bonds and the coupons thereto attached
and the obligations hereunder are secured by and payable only from
Student Fees or moneys at such time in the Bond Fund or Reserve Fund.
ARTICLE IX
SUPPLEMENTAL RESOLUTIONS
SECTION 901 Supplemental Resolutions Not Requiring Consent of
Bondholders. The University may without the consent of the Bond



190


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


holders adopt resolutions supplemental to the Resolution as shall not be
inconsistent with the terms and provisions hereof for any one or more
of the following purposes:
(a) To provide for the issuance and sale of additional Parity
Obligations;
(b) To confirm or further assure the Student Fees or to grant
or pledge to the Bondholders any additional security;
(c) To add additional covenants and agreements of the University for the purpose of further securing the payment of the Bonds;
(d) To prescribe further limitations and restrictions upon the
issuance of Parity Obligations by the University;
(e) To cure any ambiguity or formal defect or omission in the
Resolution.
SECTION 902 Supplemental Resolutions Requiring Consent of Bondholders. Exclusive of supplemental resolutions covered by Section 901 for
which consent of Bondholders is not required, the holders of not less than
65% in the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds outstanding shall
have the right to consent to the adoption by the University of such other
supplemental or amendatory resolutions as shall be deemed necessary
and desirable by the University; provided, however, that nothing contained in this Section shall permit, or be construed as permitting, (i) an
extension of the maturity of the principal of or the interest on any Bond
issued hereunder, or (ii) a reduction in the principal amount of any Bond
or the rate of interest thereon, or (iii) a privilege or priority of any Bond
or Bonds over any other Bond or Bonds, or (iv) a reduction in the
aggregate principal amount of the Bonds required for consent to such
supplemental or amendatory resolution.
If the University shall propose to adopt a supplemental resolution
requiring consent of the Bondholders, it shall cause notice of the proposed
adoption of such supplemental resolution to be published in a daily newspaper or financial journal of general circulation in New York, New York,
which carries as part of its regular service notices of sale of municipal
bonds. Such notice shall briefly set forth the nature of the proposed supplemental or amendatory resolution and shall state that copies thereof
are on file at the principal office of the University for inspection by all
Bondholders. If within six months following the publication of such
notice, the holders of not less than 65% in aggregate principal amount of
the Bonds outstanding at the time of the adoption of any such supplemental or amendatory resolution shall have consented in writing to the
adoption thereof, upon the adoption of such supplemental or amendatory
resolution, the Resolution shall be deemed to be amended in accordance
therewith.
ARTICLE X
METHOD OF SALE OF BONDS, PREPARATION OF OFFICIAL STATEMENT
AND NOTICE OF SALE
SECTION 1001 Preparation of Official Statement and Notice of Sale.
The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University shall
direct and participate with Bond Counsel in the preparation of an Official
Statement and a Notice of Sale to be used in connection with a public
competitively bid sale of the Bonds, including in the case of the
Notice of Sale, provision for any maximum interest rate and other terms
of sale as he may determine appropriate and that he might reasonably
anticipate to be ratified and approved by the Regents at the time of the
sale of the Bonds. The Notice of Sale shall be executed by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and shall be published at least seven




DECEMBER MEETING, 1981                       191
days prior to the time of sale as determined by the Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer, in the Daily Bond Buyer of New York, New York.
The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer shall provide for
the circulation of the Official Statement, participate in rating meetings,
and take such other action as he may determine necessary for the successful sale of the Bonds, including providing such changes in the terms of
the Bonds for purposes of the Notice of Sale as he might reasonably
anticipate would be ratified and approved by the Regents at the time of
sale of the Bonds (e.g., increase or reduction of the principal amount of
Bonds Projects or variation in the serial maturities). In the event that the
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer determines that economic
conditions might preclude a successful public competitively bid sale, he
shall have the authority to negotiate the sale of the Bonds under such
procedures as he shall deem prudent and appropriate, subject to ratification and approval by the Regents at the time of sale of the Bonds.
SECTION 1002 Resolution Constitutes Contract. The provisions of
the Resolution shall constitute a contract between the University and
Bondholders to the equal and ratable benefit and protection of each Bondholder, and after delivery of the Bonds, no change, variation, or alteration
of the provisions of the Resolution may be made except in accordance
with its terms.
SECTION 1003 Enforcement of Contract. The contract constituted
by the Resolution shall be enforceable by appropriate proceedings taken
by the Bondholder(s) under the law.
SECTION 1004 Other Documentation. James F. Brinkerhoff, Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the University, Richard L.
Kennedy, Secretary of the University, C. W. Matthews, Controller of the
University, and Norman G. Herbert, Investment Officer, or any of them
are authorized to perform all acts and deeds and execute all instruments
and documents necessary, expedient, and proper in connection with the
issuance, sale, and delivery of the Bonds and the construction of the
Project as contemplated hereby.
ARTICLE XI
PAYING AGENT
SECTION 1101 Designation of Paying Agent. At the time of the
sale of the Bonds the manager of the syndicate or the representative of
the financial institution purchasing the Bonds shall designate the Paying
Agent, and as such bond registrar and depository of the Bond Fund and
Reserve Fund subject to the approval of the Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer. The designated Paying Agent shall signify its acceptance
of the duties and obligations imposed by the Resolution by delivering a
written acceptance thereof to the University.
SECTION 1102 Replacement of Paying Agent. The Paying Agent
and any successor Paying Agent may at any time resign by giving 30 days
written notice to the University, and such resignation shall take effect at
the end of such 30 days, or upon the earlier appointment of a successor
Paying Agent. The Paying Agent, and any successor Paying Agent, may
be removed at any time, by an instrument or concurrent instruments in
writing delivered to the University and the Paying Agent and signed by
the owners of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Bonds outstanding. In case the Paying Agent shall resign or be removed, or be
dissolved, or shall be in course of dissolution or liquidation, or otherwise
become incapable of acting hereunder, a successor may be appointed by
the owners of a majority of aggregate principal amount of Bonds outstanding, by an instrument or concurrent instruments in writing signed by




192


DECEMBER MEETING, 1981


such owners, or by their attorneys in fact duly authorized. Pending and
until such action by the Bondholders, a temporary Paying Agent shall be
designated by the University as may be necessary. Every such Paying
Agent designated pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall be a trust
company or bank in good standing, within the State of Michigan or New
York, New York, or Chicago, Illinois, having a reported capital and surplus
of not less than Ten Million ($10,000,000) Dollars if there be such an
institution willing, qualified, and able to accept the trust upon reasonable
or customary terms. Every such Paying Agent designated pursuant to the
provisions of this Section shall also be approved by the University.
ARTICLE XII
MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION 1201 Severability. If any one or more sections, clauses, or
provisions of the Resolution shall be determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid or ineffective for any reason, such determination
shall in no way affect the validity and effectiveness of the remaining sections, clauses, and provisions of the Resolution.
SECTION 1202 Headings. Any headings shall be solely for convenience of reference and shall not constitute a part of the Resolution,
nor shall they affect its meaning, construction, or effect.
SECTION 1203 Conflict. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or
other proceedings of the University in conflict herewith be and the
same are repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
SECTION 1204 Effective Date. The Resolution shall take effect
immediately upon its adoption.
Regents of The University of Michigan


B  y.............................................................
Its Controller




JANUARY MEETING, 1982
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14, 1982
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Nederlander, Power, Roach, and Varner. Chancellors Jenkins
and Nelson and Vice-Presidents Frye, Overberger, Johnson,
Acting Vice-President Jacobson, and Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regent Waters and VicePresident Brinkerhoff were absent. Chandler Matthews, Controller of the University, attended the meeting for Vice-President
Brinkerhoff.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order and indicated
that the Physical Therapy Program, scheduled to be the first item
on the agenda, would be postponed until the principal parties
were present. He then invited Vice-President Frye to comment
upon the disastrous fire that destroyed the Economics Building on Christmas eve.
Vice-President Frye spoke of the immediate and extraordi- Economics
nary response to the situation by the faculty and University staff Bulding fire
which helped to alleviate a great deal of distress and anxiety
which otherwise could have grown out of proportion. The major
concern was to find available space to house the economics
department within a period of a few days so that resumption of
classes would not be delayed.
After reviewing several options, the recently completed
renovations in the North Ingalls Building to accommodate the
gerontology program were considered to be adequate to take
care of the immediate needs of the economics department and
the decision was made to move the department into those
facilities on an interim basis.
Unfortunately, this meant that the plans to consolidate the
Institute of Gerontology would have to be deferred. Notification
of this decision to the gerontology faculty was somewhat delayed because the past and current directors were out of town
during this vacation period. The gerontology staff and administration, however, have been extraordinarily considerate in
accepting this decision as the most logical and best solution
for a problem that could not otherwise be handled satisfactorily.


193




194


JANUARY, 1982


Salvage operations to preserve as much of the contents of the
economics building as possible began as soon as practicable and
yielded more than anticipated, though many individuals lost
much that is irreplaceable. With the assistance of President
Shapiro, a commitment was made to the department and the
faculty that a fund would be established to aid restoration and
replacement of some of the losses where possible. Vice-President
Frye commented that, all things considered-the tragedies and
the disappointments-the morale of the department was good.
Mr. Jack Weidenbach, Director of Business Operations,
described the activities upon discovery of the fire and the physical condition of the second oldest building on campus. He
said the faculty were superb in aiding the salvage operations. He
described the freeze drying process and said this would preserve
much of the material damaged by water.
Mr. Weidenbach then stated that the City Fire Chief ruled
out the possibility of accidental fire-the fire is believed to be
arson.
Regent Baker raised questions concerning a sprinkler system and the condition of the remaining walls. Can they be
salvaged? Mr. Weidenbach responded that sprinkler systems
have been installed in high risk areas, such as storage areas and
where there is a great deal of smoking. The priority of the
University's fire protection program has always been for the
safety of its personnel. Resources to install sprinkler systems
compete with those for laboratory renovations, etc.
A structural engineer has been retained to evaluate the condition of the walls.
Regent Baker suggested that if the building is not restored
in its present configuration, consideration be given to locating a
new facility in a different area to protect the openness of the
central campus. When the new Chemistry building is underway
much of the existing open area will be gone.
With respect to sprinkler systems, Regent Roach indicated
water damage can be as great as fire damage to original documents. Therefore, a sprinkler system can be a risk as well as a
benefit and should be carefully considered where personnel are
not involved.
Regent Power commented upon the excellent cooperation
between the University and the City of Ann Arbor. She said that
the devastations to some of the faculty and their families in the
economics department were impossible to calculate at this time
and extended to them the solicitude of the Board of Regents.
Regent Power asked if resources would be available to duplicate
the facilities now being used by the economics department on




JANUARY, 1982


195


another floor in the North Ingalls Building for the Institute of
Gerontology.
Vice-President Frye responded that an exact duplication may
not be possible, but consideration is being given to renovating
the seventh floor with general office space to take care of some
of the Institute's needs until final location of the Economics
Department has been determined.
President Shapiro commented upon the extraordinary efforts
by the people working for Mr. Weidenbach during the ChristmasNew Year's week to relocate the economics department by the
January 4 deadline. Personnel of the utilities and the plant and
purchasing departments worked long hours to ensure the new
semester would open on schedule. He said he was deeply grateful
to all those involved.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the November 19 and 20, 1981 and December 17 and 18, 1981 meetings were approved as revised.
II. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports on investment transactions, plant extension, litigation,
personnel-labor relations, and a quarterly report on non-competitive purchases over $1,000 from single sources.
Acting Vice-President Jacobson filed his monthly report on
the Office of University Relations and Development.
The Regents asked that the Replacement Hospital report
for January be resubmitted in February since adequate time to
review the report was not provided.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS                                           Gifts
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from the following
sources. They were received with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions.
Ann Arbor Foundation, Ann Arbor; for the Turner Geriatric
Program   fund................................................$  9,955.00
Robert C. Adams Estate; for the College of Engineering
D iscretionary   fund............................................................  5,298.26
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; for the Physical
Stress  Research   fund.............................................   10,000.00
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for the
American  Cancer  Society, Inc. funds..............................  40,982.00
Anonymous Donor; for Athletic Scholarship fund............... 10,000.00
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for the Arthritis
Foundation funds                                  12,041.66
Foundation funds............................     12,041.66
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn; for the
Michigan Chapter, Arthritis Foundation funds..............  8,999.98




196


JANUARY, 1982


Bechtel Foundation, San Francisco, California; for the following funds:
C. S. Mott Hospital Equipment fund..............................  5,000.00
University Musical Society Gifts fund............................  100.00
V ital  M argin   fund.............................................................   30.00
WUOM      fund...............................................      35.00
Mr. and Mrs. William     Brittain, Fowlerville; for the following
funds:
Alumni Center    fund............................................................  5,000.00
University Musical Society Gifts fund..............................  1,500.00
Minnie Mae Burleigh Estate; for the Minnie Mae Burleigh
Cancer Research fund...................................................... 175,000.00
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit; for the following funds:
Business School Associates Program      fund........................  3,000.00
Engineering Building Gifts fund........................................  50,000.00
Cleveland-Cliffs Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio; for Engineering
Building Gifts fund................................................  5,000.00
Commonwealth Fund, New York, New            York; for the Commonwealth Fund-Donabedian Grant fund......................     13,430.00
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit; for the following funds:
Engineering Building Gifts fund......................................  5,000.00
Institute Industrial Health Project 4 fund........................  3,500.00
Dow Chemical Company, Midland; for the following funds:
Career Planning     and  Placement-Professional Improvement fund................................................  3,000.00
Macromolecular Research Center fund............................  4,000.00
Clara Dushnik Trust, Tempe, Arizona; for the Ben Dushnik
Scholarship Award in Mathematics fund..........................  10,000.00
Order of the Eastern Star of Michigan, Grand Chapter, Cornstock; for the following funds:
H  eart  Research   G ifts  fund................................................  4,909.18
Multiple Sclerosis Research fund......................................  201.00
Pediatric Cardiology Research fund............................    100.00
Simpson Memorial Institute Special fund..........................  70.00
University of Michigan Cancer Research Institute fund....         777.50
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York; for the
following funds:
Chemical Engineering Special fund..................................  700.00
Eastman Kodak Fellowship in Mechanical Engineering
fu n d..............................................................................   2,2 0 0.0 0
Eastman Kodak Chemical Engineering fund....................      1,500.00
Electrical and Computer Engineering Special fund........        3,000.00
Industrial Engineering Special Gift fund..........................  2,200.00
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn; for the following
funds:
Minority Engineering Program       fund............................  2,500.00'
Minority and Female Scholarships in Engineering fund             2,500.00
Ford Motor Company, Milan; for the College of Engineering
Industrial Support Program      fund.....................................  11,890.00
Ford Motor Company, Ypsilanti; for the College of Engineering Industrial Support Program      fund..............................  26,386.94
James W. Gessner, Ballwin, Missouri; for the College of
E ngineering   fund:..............................................................  5,000.00
General Motors Corporation, Detroit; for the General Motors
Corporation College of Engineering fund........................  23,061.00
Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook, Illinois; for Athletic Scholarsh ip   fu n d................:......................................................  5,0 0 0.00
Jack Haines Company, Detroit; for the following funds:
Letourneau Diabetes Research fund.................................  10,000.00
President's  fund.................................................................  5,000.00




JANUARY, 1982                                 197
Mrs. James A. Kennedy, Harbor Springs; for the Alumni
C enter  fund.........................................................................  45,000.00
James M. Lawler, Ann Arbor; for the Alumni Center fund....         5,000.00
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms;
for the President Gerald R. Ford Library fund................  10,000.00
Marathon Oil Foundation, Inc., Findlay, Ohio; for the following funds:
School of Business Administration-Accounting Faculty
Special fund................................................  1,500.00
Geology-Mineralogy     fund................................................  2,000.00
Marathon Oil Company Scholarships fund......................  3,000.00
President's  fund..................................................................  10,000.00
Michigan Eye-Bank, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Eye Bank
fund....................................................................................   11,182.00
National Geno Sciences, Inc., Southfield; for Supplementary
Support in Molecular Biology fund..................................  7,500.00
N. C. R. Foundation, Dayton, Ohio; for the Solid State Industrial Affiliates Program  fund............................................  10,000.00
NL Industries Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for
the following funds:
Business School Associates Program fund........................  1,500.00
NL Industries-Mechanical Engineering fund..................   3,500.00
Noranda Mines Limited, Toronto, Ontario; for the Geology
Departm  ent  Special  fund.................................................  6,441.67
Pfizer, Incorporated, Groton, Connecticut; for the Simpson
M em orial  Special  fund......................................................  5,000.00
Research Corporation, New York, New York; for the Research Corporation-Messerle fund....................................  10,000.00
Racine Ripley Estate; for the Racine Ripley fund....................  58,353.65
Rockwell International Corporation Trust, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; for the Solid State Industrial Affiliates Program
fund...........................................................................  10,000.00
Sandvik, Inc., Fair Lawn, New Jersey; for the Various Industrial Sponsors-Colwell fund................................................  7,500.00
Dr. and Mrs. Brooks H. Sitterley, Marion, Ohio; for the
Fred J. Hodges Memorial fund........................................  6,600.00
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York; for the
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation-Morgan fund......................  50,000.00
Lida M. Smith Estate; for the following funds:
J. Leslie and E. Cumming French Scholarship fund......        4,000.00
Research and Research Equipment fund..........................  10,000.00
E. R. Squibb and Sons, Inc., East Brunswick, New Jersey; for
the following funds:
Hypertension Research fund..............................................  5,000.00
Vascular  Research  fund......................................................  2,000.00
Dr. and Mrs. Samuel Stearns, Jamaica Plain, Massachusetts;
for  the  President's  fund......................................................  5,395.00
Structural Dynamics Research Corporation, Milford, Ohio;
for the College of Engineering fund..................................  17,500.00
Thrasher Research Fund, Salt Lake City, Utah; for the
Thrasher  Research-Tait   fund............................................  11,010.00
Touche Ross & Company, Detroit; for the School of Business
Administration Accounting Faculty Special fund..........      5,000.00
Union Carbide Corporation, Tarryton, New York; for the
following funds:
College of Engineering Industrial Support Program fund           500.00
Macromolecular Research Center fund............................  2,000.00
Minority Engineering Program fund..................................  1,500.00
Union Carbide Fellowship in Chemical Engineering fund          4,000.00




198


JANUARY, 1982


Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey; for
the Warner-Lambert Fellowship in Pharmacology fund
Winkelman Brothers Apparel Foundation, Detroit; for the
Isadore and Leon Winkelman Chair in Retailing fund....
Isadore and Beryl Winkelman Foundation, West Bloomfield;
for the Isadore and Leon Winkelman Chair in Retailing
fu n d....................................................................................
The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
Robert J. Brown Trust, Kalamazoo. Mapco, Incorporated,
common stock; for the School of Business Administration
Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund..............................
Joseph R. Jarabak, Valparaiso, Indiana. Clark Oil and Refining Company, common stock; for the School of Dentistry   Special   fu n d.............................................................
Robert Burns Richardson, Helena, Montana. The St. Paul
Companies, Inc., common stock; for the Actuarial Science Program   fund........................................
Ann Taylor Van Rosevelt, Ann Arbor. Coca-Cola Company,
common stock; divided as follows:
Kelsey Museum Associates fund......................................
Kelsey Museum Excavations in Italy fund......................


5,000.00
57,500.00
16,250.00
8,756.25
50,024.00
5,080.38
5,000.00
15,332.13


Physical Therapy
Program


The following nonmonetary, noncash gifts were received:
Robert D. Burhans, Fredericksburg, Virginia. Sixteen items from the
Burhans Collection of Antique Maps; for the William L. Clements
Library
Grant F. Burns, Flint. Two Books: The Man Who Kept Cigars in His
Cap and Bright Moments: A Collection of Jazz Poetry; for The
University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Mandall Kaplan, Chicago, Illinois. Three African sculptures, wood; for
the Museum of Art
Jack Pierson, Flint. A book, entitled: The Road to Gdansk, by David
Singer; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Ghassan M. Saab, Fenton. Twelve books; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
R. L. Young, Flint. Four, framed lithographs of The University of
Michigan Ann Arbor Campus; for The University of MichiganFlint Campus Alumni Room
Vice-President Frye indicated that, as anticipated, there is
an action request on the agenda to relocate the program in
physical therapy to the Flint campus. He then reviewed the
considerations that led to this decision beginning with the request from the Dean of the Medical School to close the program
due to the need of overall retrenchment to better support the
highest priority and most central programs in the Medical
School. The guidelines for program discontinuance were then
followed allowing for private and public hearings while the
director and faculty of the program were kept informed and
were consulted concerning the process and their attitudes about
the various possibilities other than closure.
Because of the severe shortage of physical therapists in the
State and the nation, it was determined that every effort should
be made to continue to help meet that need. Therefore, three




JANUARY, 1982


199


specific proposals were considered: a preliminary inquiry from
Eastern Michigan University; a proposal from the Department
of Physical Education; and a proposal from UM-Flint. After
a careful review, it was decided to pursue the Flint proposal
because it would enable the same number of students to be
trained at the entry level as in the current program. The proposal
would also provide for the necessary incremental support for a
high quality program and eventually the master's level program.
In addition it would be financially sound and consistent with the
current mission and development goals of the Flint Campus.
The faculty at Flint have now unanimously voted to approve
the proposal, therefore, relocation of the program to the Flint
Campus is recommended with the full endorsement of the executive officers, the Medical School executive committee, the dean
of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and of Professor Richard Darnell, Chairman of the Physical Therapy
Curriculum.
Professor Darnell indicated that the proposal submitted to
the Regents contains one major alteration. Rather than a separate
unit reporting directly to the Provost at UM-Flint, the physical
therapy program would be housed in a proposed degree granting
unit with other health related programs. Although a separate unit
is preferable to the faculty because of administrative factors, it is
recognized that placement in a newly developed unit with programs of like character would have significant fiscal and curricular advantages and would be acceptable.
Professor Darnell said it is understood that an appropriate
administrative unit would be created as soon as possible on the
Flint Campus because of the overwhelming support for such a
unit, and the Board of Directors of the Physical Therapy Association has endorsed the relocation proposal contingent upon
the development of such a unit. The difficulties encountered by
the physical therapy curriculum seem to emanate from a single
factor-an inadequate and inappropriate administrative structure. The program would not be viable in the College of Arts
and Science. Chancellor Nelson has indicated that it is his belief
that the form and substance of the proposed unit will be
compatible with the best interest of the Flint Campus and the
University as a whole.
The Regents asked questions concerning: (1) the clinical
experience for the students in the program, (2) whether the
transfer to the Flint Campus would be a hardship for those students who had already contemplated admission to the program
at the Ann Arbor Campus, (3) the extent to which the faculty
are prepared to deal with the fairly heavy burden they will have
to bear during the 1982-83 term when students will be trained
both in Ann Arbor and Flint.




200


JANUARY, 1982


Professor Darnell responded to these questions as follows:
(1) the only actual change in the clinical education program
would be in the pre-clinical aspect and it was felt that there
were sufficient places in the Flint community to carry out that
function, (2) it is believed that the students who enter The University of Michigan primarily to pursue physical therapy education would not consider the relocation an overwhelming problem,
but there is no data to support this, at this time, (3) the faculty
are aware of the burden and are prepared to meet it because it is
the only way the transition could occur without the loss of some
students.
Professor Kenneth West, Chairman of the Flint Faculty
Assembly, emphasized the fact that the faculty assembly of
UM-Flint voted unanimously to support the relocation of the
physical therapy program to the Flint Campus. He indicated it
was the result of the close cooperation between the administration and the faculty and also the consequence of extensive deliberations by the faculty committees involved. Initial fears that
the program might not be viable or anticipated enrollment might
not materialize were overcome. Certain considerations were recommended and included in the final document. These included
assurances of support from area hospitals and foundations, provisions for review and evaluation of the program at the end of
the third and sixth years, no existing College of Arts and
Science base budget moneys would be allocated to support the
program, and provisions for the creation of a new unit to include
physical therapy and other current health and health science
related programs. Professor West expressed his hope that the
Regents would approve the proposal.
Chancellor Nelson said he had nothing further to add to
Vice-President Frye's review and listed the three specific requests in the recommendation. He acknowledged Dr. William
Vasse's role in guiding all of the components to the final
recommendation. Chancellor Nelson said he is satisfied that
UM-Flint has adequate facilities for the program.
There was further discussion concerning the commitments by
the foundations and hospitals, the transitional funding, the components in the new academic units, the administrative costs of
the new unit and whether there would be duplications of program offerings on the Ann Arbor and Flint Campuses.
Professor Darnell indicated that the educational and clinical
materials that are currently used for the physical therapy program would be transferred to Flint.
Regent Power then moved approval to relocate total budgetary responsibility for the Curriculum in Physical Therapy from
the Ann Arbor Campus to the Flint Campus, effective July 1,




JANUARY, 1982


201


1982; approval to relocate total academic responsibility for the
Curriculum in Physical Therapy from the Ann Arbor Campus
to the Flint Campus, effective September 1, 1983 with a shared
responsibility maintained by the two campuses from July 1,
1982 to August 31, 1983; and authorization to grant the degree
of Bachelor of Science in Physical Therapy from the Flint
Campus of the University, effective September 1, 1983, with
the first class graduating from UM-Flint in August 1984.
Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.


IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the
Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
William W. Bishop, Jr., Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the
Law School, Winter Term, 1982
Norbert H. Gorwic, Professor Emeritus of Urban Planning, appointed
to teach in the College of Architecture & Urban Planning, Winter
Term, 1982
Clifford P. Lillya, Earl V. Moore Distinguished Professor Emeritus of
Music, appointed to teach in the School of Music, Winter Term, 1982
Kurt Wolfel, Max Kade Distinguished Visiting Professor of German,
appointed to teach in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
Winter Term, 1982
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Edward M. Gramlich, Professor of Economics, reappointed Director,
Institute of Public Policy Studies, July 1, 1982 to June 30, 1986
Harold K. Jacobson, appointed Acting Director for the Center for Political Studies, January 1, 1982 through August 31, 1982
The following committee appointments were approved:
Alumni Association Distinguished Alumni Service Award, Selection
Committee
Margaret Ayers Host, for academic year 1981-82
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, Executive Committee
Professor Guy R. Mermier, appointed for the Winter Term, 1982, vice
Professor Diane M. Kirkpatrick, on leave
Institute for Social Research, Executive Committee
Associate Dean William Zimmerman, to complete term ending June 30,
1984, vice Dean James J. Duderstadt, resigned from the committee
The Regents approved an extension of a leave of absence for
Richard A. English, Associate Professor of Social Work.


Personnel Actions
Appointments
Promotions, etc.
Leave of
Absence




202


JANUARY, 1982


Personnel Reports
Appointments


V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the
Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on January 1, 1982 unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Karen B. Haller, M.S., Nursing
Larry J. Ruff, Ph.D., Geological Sciences
Barry Wilson, Ph.D., Pathology, November 1, 1981
Visiting Professor
John R. Price, LL.B., Law
A. Dan Tarlock, LL.B., Law
Ivan Vandor, M.A., Music
Visiting Associate Professor
Kenneth D. Boyer, Ph.D., Economics
Albert F. Casullo, Ph.D., Philosophy
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Barbara A. Donaho, M.S., Nursing
Shin Job Kang, Ph.D., Civil Engineering
Adjunct Lecturer
Vincent L. Barker, Jr., J.D., Law
James R. Benya, B.S.E., Art
Mary E. Guinn, B.A., Dance
Cyril Moscow, J.D., Law
Edward R. Stein, J.D., Law


Promotions, etc.


CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Caesar B. Briefer, Director of Health Service and Clinical Assistant
Professor of Internal Medicine, also appointed Professor of Occupational Medicine, without tenure, October 15, 1981
Kelly A. Brix, Assistant Professor of Occupational Medicine, also
appointed Instructor in Internal Medicine, October 15, 1981
Harry Lu Wang, from Instructor in Management to Assistant Professor
of Finance, UM-Dearborn, November 1, 1981
Marilyn W. Woolfolk, from Clinical Instructor to Instructor of Dentistry,
December 1, 1981


Resignations    TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS
Effective on December 31, 1981 unless otherwise indicated
Professor
James R. Boyle, Natural Resources
Vladimir P. Goss, Arts, Sciences, and Letters, UM-Dearborn
Maxine E. Loomis, Nursing




JANUARY, 1982


203


Associate Professor
D. Jean Wood, Nursing
Assistant Professor
Sylvia A. Aldridge, Pharmacy
Carol E. Allen, Nursing
Charles M. Hellie, Dentistry
Instructor
Mohammed Mushtaque, Anesthesiology
Clinical Assistant Professor
Mary F. Whiteside, Psychiatry
Clinical Instructor
Fernando M. Jara, Surgery, May 31, 1981
Three off-campus assignments, one administrative leave, Leaves of
seventy-five sabbatical leaves, five scholarly activity leaves, one  Absence
extended sick leave, eighteen leaves of absence without salary,
and nine retirement furloughs were reported to the Regents.
Regent Dunn questioned the scholarly activity leave cate- Scholarly
gory-what was its purpose and what kind of revenues are      Activity Leave
available for this?
Vice-President Frye explained that faculty members often
receive grants to pursue some type of scholarly activity. These
grants are sometimes not sufficient to provide for the faculty
members' full salary for a semester or a year. The specific
department would then supplement the grant.
President Shapiro explained that a Guggenheim fellowship
which is a very prestigious grant, is a good example. This fellowship is available for a variety of scholarly activities. The stipend
provided, however, no longer is sufficient to induce a faculty
member to apply for a grant. If departments can supplement
the grant, however, the University's scholarly reputation is certainly enhanced.
Regent Dunn remarked that it was his understanding that
publishing was part of a person's teaching career and not an
activity for which one is additionally compensated.
Vice-President Frye commented that writing books and
scholarly papers is at the very heart of the University and
should be encouraged at every opportunity. The resources involved would be very modest and would be a good investment.
Upon Regent Dunn's request, a report will be presented to
the Regents at the next meeting for further discussion.
Regent Power indicated that she is very supportive of the
philosophy and intent of the leaves for scholarly activity. It is




204


JANUARY, 1982


a means of encouraging scholarship and scholarly endeavor of
some of the University's distinguished faculty on a highly selective basis. Regent Power agreed that it was a good use of
University funds and results in considerable recognition for
having received some of the highest honors in the nation.
V!. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Secretary Kennedy reported the retirement of two faculty
members. The following memoirs were adopted.
I. K. Heller   DR. IRENE K. HELLER, Associate Professor of Education, retired
from active faculty status as of December 31, 1981. She had an active
career as a recognized educator in the fields of elementary school
curriculum, reading instruction and teacher education.
A native of Michigan, Professor Heller completed her B.A. degree
in 1944 and her M.Ed. degree in 1954 from Wayne State University.
She then earned her Ph.D. from The University of Michigan in 1963.
Professor Heller began her teaching in the Detroit Public Schools in
1943, was promoted to Assistant Principal in 1955, and served as Supervisor of the Mathematics Improvement Program in 1959. She came to
The University of Michigan in 1959, served as Teaching Fellow and
Instructor, was promoted to Assistant Professor upon receipt of her
degree in 1963 and then to Associate Professor with tenure in 1967.
During the period January through June, 1975, she served as Associate
Dean in Mr. Bertolaet's absence and was appointed Assistant Dean for
Instruction for the period September, 1976, through June, 1977.
At the University, Professor Heller taught both graduate and undergraduate students, offering courses in reading, general elementary
methods, and elementary school curriculum. Her expertise was never
the "ivory tower" variety since she renewed it periodically in the elementary classroom. In 1969 she took a year's leave to teach again in the
Detroit schools and in 1975 visited elementary schools in Hungary reporting her observations in the Innovator. Professor Heller was frequently
asked to review proposals for the federal government, and manuscripts
for commercial publishers and professional journals.
In the School of Education Professor Heller served on the Executive
Committee, chaired the Undergraduate Committee, and chaired both the
Reading and the Curriculum Programs as well as the Elementary Committee. She responded generously to school systems' requests for inservice
training and often joined the Bureau of School Services' teams for
curriculum evaluation studies.
In recognition of the above accomplishments and her exemplary
record as an educational leader and faculty member, the Regents now
salute Irene K. Heller by naming her Associate Professor Emeritus of
Education.
N. K. Marshall    NORMA K. MARSHALL, Assistant Dean and Professor of Nursing,
Retirement will retire from active faculty status on January 31, 1982.
A native of Michigan, Professor Marshall received her nursing
diploma from the Edward W. Sparrow Hospital School of Nursing in
Lansing, Michigan in 1947. She took undergraduate studies at Michigan
State University and Case Western Reserve University and her graduate
studies at Case Western Reserve University and The University of
Michigan.
From 1947 to 1951, Professor Marshall was employed as an
Instructor at the Edward W. Sparrow Hospital School of Nursing in
Lansing, Michigan. In 1953, she came to The University of Michigan as
an Assistant Professor of Nursing and Chairperson of the Foundations




JANUARY, 1982


205


Area of the School of Nursing. She was promoted to the rank of Associate
Professor in 1960 and to Professor in 1972 and was Acting Dean in
1972-1973. She has served as Assistant Dean of the School of Nursing
since 1971. Professor Marshall was appointed by the Governor of
Michigan to the Michigan Board of Nursing. She served as a member
from 1973 to 1976 and was Vice Chairperson from 1976 to 1977.
During Professor Marshall's tenure at The University of Michigan,
she was instrumental in the development of the Registered Nurse Studies
Program and provided leadership in curriculum development and in
academic services for students in the School of Nursing.
The Regents recognize this distinguished health educator for her
dedicated service by naming her Professor Emeritus of Nursing.
Regent Power moved approval of the resolution commemorating the retirement of Arlene Howe, Staff Associate to the
Executive Director of University Hospitals.
VII. DEATHS
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, Degree Lists
the Regents approved the following amendments to the degree     Amended
lists:
School of Education
Bachelor of Arts, August 21, 1977
add:
Janice Carol McCarthy, B.A.
Law School
Juris Doctor, August 14, 1981
add:
Stewart Lawrence Mandell, A.B. cum laude
Anita Louise Wallgren, A.B.
correct to show:
Sharon Wicks Dornfeld, A.B.
delete:
Mark J. Gonzalez, B.A., Oakland University
Masters of Law (LL.M.) August 14, 1981
add:
Godart Ch. van der Feltz, Meester in de Rechten, Utrecht University School of Law
On the recommendation of the Honorary Degree Committee, Honorary
the Regents approved the awarding of seven honorary degrees. Approved
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Regent Dunn moved approval to change the West Quad-         West Quad
Dining Room
rangle Dining Room to a scramble system, as recommended.        change
Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.




206


JANUARY, 1982


Renovations  Regent Nederlander moved approval of the program for
radiation therapy equipment improvement and renovation project, as recommended. Regent Dunn seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
Regent Nederlander moved and Regent Power seconded a
motion to approve the budget and to proceed with Phase I
of the towing tank renovations for the Naval Architecture and
Marine Engineering Department.


Income Tax
Withholding for
Grad Students


X. OTHER
The Regents received a report concerning a change in income
tax withholding status for graduate student teaching assistants
and staff assistants.


Medical Staff  Regent Dunn moved to approve the recommended appointments to medical staff membership. Regent Brown seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Admittie g   Regent Nederlander moved and Regent Brown seconded a
motion to approve the recommendations for admitting privileges
for courtesy staff of the University of Michigan Hospitals.


ILIR Relationship with
WSU terminated


In reviewing the resolution to terminate the joint appointment between Wayne State University and the University of
Michigan for the operation of the Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations, President Shapiro indicated that the interest
of the faculties went in different directions and almost from the
beginning there has been virtually no interaction. The Ann Arbor
faculty were interested in research and labor relations and the
Wayne State faculty were more interested in providing training
in various skills for people in the labor movement. There has
been little, if any, cooperation between the two units, therefore
it is recommended that the joint venture be terminated.
Regent Nederlander then moved to approve the attached
resolution which officially concludes this joint venture between
The University of Michigan and Wayne State University. Regent
Dunn seconded the motion and it was adopted.
WHEREAS, since 1957 The University of Michigan and
Wayne State University have operated the Institute of Labor and
Industrial Relations as a joint venture, and
WHEREAS, both The University of Michigan and Wayne
State University desire to terminate the operation of the Institute as a joint venture. Therefore, it is
RESOLVED, that effective June 30, 1982, The University
of Michigan shall conclude its joint venture for the operation of
the Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations with Wayne




JANUARY, 1982


207


State University and shall forthwith take such administrative
steps as may be necessary to accomplish the aforedescribed
termination.
President Shapiro informed the Board of a major grant from
the W. K. Kellogg Foundation for renovations in the Parkview
Building for the teaching, patient care, and research activities
of the Department of Ophthalmology. He said that this grant
makes it virtually certain that the Eye Center will go forward.
Regent Power moved authorization to accept the grant with
the gratitude of the University for this generous support. Regent
Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
President Shapiro also announced another gift to the University. Mr. and Mrs. Norman Freehling have begun to endow
two assistant professorships in humanities. Both Mrs. Freehling's
father and husband are graduates of the University. The gift will
enable the University to create positions for young scholars in
this area. It is the wish of the Freehlings to attract not only
high quality people to the University, but also to meet the
national problem of providing adequate opportunities for young
scholars in the humanities. The professorships will be known
as the Wilhartz Assistant Professorships in Philosophy and
English. It is an innovative way to attract quality people to the
University and to meet a significant problem for young scholars
in the humanities area.
The Regents received information on the reorganization
of the School of Nursing.
Regent Roach then moved that the Board convene in executive session for the purpose of considering material which, on
the advice of counsel, is exempt from disclosure pursuant to
Section 13(1)a, the unwarranted invasion of privacy section of
the Michigan Freedom of Information Act, specifically, a proposed written agreement for a gift in trust by a donor who has
informed the University that the donor insists upon strict
anonymity and is fearful that publicity would result in damage
to donor's property. Regent Roach indicated that the executive session would take place immediately following the public
comments session. Regent Baker seconded the motion and
it was adopted with Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn, Power,
Roach, and Varner voting affirmatively. Regents Nederlander
and Waters were absent.
The Regents then recessed for five minutes to review the
material which had just been distributed concerning the sale of
construction fee bonds for the Flint Physical Education facility,
Michigan Union renovation project, the Herbert H. Dow Building, the Alumni Center Building and the Power Center addition.


Eye Center,
Renovations for
Endowed
Assistant
Professorships in
Humanities,
Gift for
School of Nursing
Motion to meet
in Closed Session
Recess, for review




208


JANUARY, 1982


The Regents reconvened. President Shapiro asked if the
Board had sufficient time to study the document concerning the
construction fee bonds.
Construction Fee  After receiving an affirmative response, Regent Roach moved
to approve the resolution authorizing the sale of construction
fee bonds, the official statement and the official notice of sale.
Regent Varner seconded the motion and it was adopted. The
resolution follows.
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING TH            E SALE OF
$11,200,000 THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
CONSTRUCTION FEE BONDS, RATIFYING AND
APPROVING THE OFFICIAL NOTICE OF SALE,
RATIFYING AND APPROVING THE OFFICIAL
STATEMENT DESCRIBING THE BONDS AND THE
DISTRIBUTION THEREOF, AUTHORIZING THE
EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF A FINAL OFFICIAL
STATEMENT AND AUTHORIZING OTHER MATTERS
RELATIVE TO THE FOREGOING.
January 14, 1982
WHEREAS, the Regents of The University of Michigan (the
"University"), by a resolution adopted December 17, 1981 (the
"Resolution"), have authorized the issuance of Construction
Fee Bonds in the principal amount of Eleven Million Two
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($11,200,000) to provide funds to
enable the University to manage its cash flow requirements by
providing interim financing for the completion of acquisition,
construction, equipping and furnishing of (i) the Flint Physical
Education facility, (ii) the Michigan Union Renovation Project,
(iii) the Herbert H. Dow Building, (iv) the Alumni Center Building and (v) recovering general funds so advanced for the Power
Center Addition, and has delegated to the Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of the University the preparation of the
form of notice of sale, arrangements for such public sale, and
the preparation of a preliminary Official Statement; and
WHEREAS, the notice of sale has been published in the
January 7, 1982 edition of the Daily Bond Buyer, New York,
New York; and
WHEREAS, in connection with the sale of the Bonds it has
been necessary to circulate a preliminary Official Statement
describing the Bonds and it may be necessary to circulate a final
Official Statement; and




JANUARY, 1982


209


WHEREAS, there have been presented to and reviewed by
the University and filed with the minutes of the meeting copies
of the notice of sale and preliminary Official Statement; and
WHEREAS, January 14, 1982 at 11:00 o'clock a.m.,
Eastern Standard Time, has been set as the date and time for
opening bids for the purchase of Bonds; and
WHEREAS, said bids have been publicly opened and read;
and
WHEREAS, the following bids have been received:
Name of Bidder-John Nuveen & Co. Incorporated
Interest
Years                 Rates


1983
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998


to 1991, incl.
to 2004, incl.


14.00%
12.70%
12.50%
12.75%
13.00%
13.25%
13.50%
12.00%


Gross Interest Cost
Less Premium
Net Interest Cost
Average Rate


$14,192,600.90
-0 -$14,192,600.90
12.6961%


Name of Bidder-The First National Bank of Chicago


Years
1983
1984 to 1987, incl.
1988
1989 to 1993, incl.
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002 to 2004, incl.
Gross Interest Cost
Premium
Net Interest
Effective Rate


Interest
Rates
12.50%
14.50%
13.25%
12.50%
12.75%
13.00%
13.20%
13.40%
13.50%
13.60%
13.70%
13.75%
12.50%


$14,587,418.60
926.50
$14,586,492.10
13.048%




210


JANUARY, 1982


Name of Bidder-The Northern Trust Company
Interest
Years                 Rates
1983                13.75%
1984                14.00%
1985                12.70%
1986 to 1992, incl.  12.00%
1993                12.25%
1994                12.50%
1995                12.75%
1996                13.00%
1997                13.25%
1998                13.50%
1999                13.75%
2000 to 2004, incl.  14.00%
Gross Interest Cost          $14,849,742.96
Premium                               85.29
Net Interest Cost            $14,849,657.67
Effective Rate                   13.28392%
WHEREAS, the bid of John Nuveen & Co. Incorporated has
been determined to produce the lowest interest cost to the
University.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT:
1. The bid of John Nuveen & Co. Incorporated, as above
stated, be and the same is hereby accepted.
2. All other bids are hereby rejected and the good faith
checks of the unsuccessful bidders are hereby ordered returned
to each bidder's representative or by registered mail.
3. The form of the notice of sale and the publication of the
notice of sale as aforesaid are hereby ratified and confirmed.
4. The preliminary Official Statement on file with the Secretary and on which has been endorsed by the Secretary the date
of adoption of this resolution is hereby approved. The action of
the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and legal counsel in preparing and distributing the preliminary Official Statement be and they are hereby ratified and confirmed, and all
actions of the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, other
University staff, and legal counsel heretofore taken in connection
with the sale of the Bonds be and they are hereby ratified and
confirmed. The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, upon
request of the successful bidder, is hereby authorized and directed
for and on behalf of the University to execute a final Official
Statement in substantially the form of the preliminary Official
Statement hereby approved, together with insertion of the




JANUARY, 1982


211


Paying Agent, interest rate and price and such further necessary
or desirable changes, insertions or omissions that are not materially adverse to the University. Said final Official Statement
and the information contained therein are hereby authorized to
be used in connection with the sale of the Bonds to the public.
5. The President, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of the University, Secretary and other officers and staff of the
University and each of them be and they hereby are authorized
and directed to execute such other documents and certifications
and to perform such other acts as may be necessary or convenient for the proper sale, execution and delivery of the Bonds
subject to and as may be required by the notice of sale, the
Resolution, and this resolution.
6. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the University in conflict herewith be and the same are
repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
The Regents then heard Larry Shaffer, a graduate student,
speak on the discriminate imposition of health service fees during the public comments session.
President Shapiro then made the following statement: "The
indication that the Economics Building fire was set is shocking.
The lives of many scholars and students have been disrupted
by this callous act. A University community is based upon trust.
Thus the indication that the Economics Building, home of a
community of scholars, was deliberately set afire is appalling."
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of December totaled $1,210.08.
The Regents adjourned to meet February 18 and 19, 1982.
RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary


Public Comments
Economics
Building Fire




212                    JANUARY, 1982
INDEX
Appointments, 201, 202
Closed meeting, motion for, 207
Degrees: lists amended, 205; honorary degrees approved, 205
Economic Building fire, 193, 210
Eye Center, renovations for, 207
Gifts, 195
Heller, I. K., retirement, 204
Hospital: admitting privileges, 206
Humanities, gift for assistant professorships in, 207
Income Tax withholding for graduatae students, 206
Labor and Industrial Relations, Institute of, 206
Marshall, N. K., retirement, 204
Medical Staff membership, 206
Nursing, School of, reorganization, 207
Physical Therapy Program, 198
Promotions, 201, 202
Public Comments, 210
Recess, for review, 207
Renovations, 206; construction fee bond resolution, 208
Resignations, 202
Scholarly Activity leave, 203
West Quadrangle dining room change, 205




APPENDIX A


HONORARY DEGREES
Conferred December 21, 1981
HANNA HOLBORN GRAY, President, The University of Chicago
The University of Michigan takes pleasure in recognizing one of the
outstanding leaders in higher education today, Hanna Holborn Gray. Her
career illustrates the many faceted role of a leader in American education, a role that highlights the increasingly interrelated areas of
education, government, and public affairs.
Starting out as Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences at Northwestern University, Mrs. Gray next became Provost and then Acting
President of Yale University. In 1978, she was selected as the President
and 10th Chief Executive of the University of Chicago. Mrs. Gray is an
historian, with special interests in the history of humanism, political and
historical thought, and politics of the Renaissance in Italy and northern
Europe.
Mrs. Gray, as the first woman president of a major private research
university, has already gained great respect as an administrator by her
brisk managerial style and her insatiable appetite for facts on the
important issues she must decide. She has succeeded in directing the
University of Chicago through difficult times without impairing the
quality that has come to distinguish that institution.
The University of Michigan is pleased to saluate this outstanding
scholar and university administrator by conferring upon her the degree,
Doctor of Laws.
ISAMU NOGUCHI, artist, sculptor, and humanist
Isamu Noguchi was born in Los Angeles. His father was a poet
and his mother both a writer and teacher. His early youth was spent in
Japan. He returned to the United States in 1919 and became an apprentice
in the studio of Gutzom Borglum. At the same time, Mr. Noguchi studied
at Columbia University and the Leonardo da Vinci Art School in
New York.
A Guggenheim Fellowship took Mr. Noguchi to France where he
continued his study at the Academie Grande Chaumiers and the Collarosi
School. There he became an assistant to the great Constantin Bramcusi
and befriended many of the young painters, sculptors, dancers, and
composers whose subsequent careers have made them the pivotal figures
of our century. There was Picasso and Matisse, Martha Graham, George
Gershwin, Stuart Davis, Buckminster Fuller-the list could include
virtually all the influences which have shaped contemporary culture.
Out of this ferment of ideas emerged Mr. Noguchi's life-long
dedication to his art and its relationship with the total environment. He
has worked with all materials-metal, wood and stone to create works
of art of extraordinary contemplative power in all corners of the world.
Examples include Sculpture Gardens at the Paris UNESCO Building,
the Rare Book Library at Yale, the Chase Manhattan Bank and the


213




214                    JANUARY, 1982
Dodge Fountain and Plaza in Detroit. The greatest museums of the
world must consider their permanent collections incomplete if they do
not include examples of the work of this surpassing sculptor. His
career has been a model for those who value the interrelation of all
the arts. He has worked as an integral force with the finest architects,
painters, dancers, and composers of our time. His work is a lasting testimony to the values which art in a public setting has for all of us.
Mr. Noguchi has given us a quality of experience which ennobles
our lives. The University of Michigan is proud to recognize his achievements on behalf of people everywhere by awarding him the degree,
Doctor of Fine Arts.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1982
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1982
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Nederlander, Power, Roach, Varner, and Waters. Chancellors
Jenkins and Nelson and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye,
Overberger, Johnson, Acting Vice-President Jacobson and VicePresident and Secretary Kennedy also were present.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order and indicated  Five-Year Plan:
Reduction and
that Vice-President Frye would describe a five year $20 million  Reallocation
reduction/reallocation plan to deal with the problem of declining resources for the University.
Vice-President Frye indicated that the erosion of general
fund resources which began gradually about a decade ago has
accelerated considerably during the last few years. The principal
factor has been the decline in the level of State support coupled
with the rapid rise in the cost of utilities and certain staff benefits. Further, it is believed that the rate of general fund revenue
growth over the next decade will not be sufficient to meet the
resource needs of the University at the current size and scope
of the institution.
The University has barely been able to offset this decline
through a combination of such steps as deferral of expenditures
for equipment and renovation, an intensive energy saving program, rising tuition rates, and enforced retrenchment. It is
likely that these conditions will worsen over the next several
years because of a decline in qualified student applicants, reduced flexibility for internal reallocation because of the low rate
of turnover of tenured faculty, and an accumulation of delayed
maintenance and equipment costs. In addition, federal government support for higher education will likely decline further.
Vice-President Frye said the proposed plan would produce
$20 million in reductions of personnel and programs supported
by the General Fund which could then be reallocated to such
high priority needs as salary improvements for faculty and staff,
improved support for graduate students, an improved research
environment, improved undergraduate teaching, and funds for
selected program growth and development. The rising cost of
utilities and the deferred expenditures for maintenance; equipment and renovations also will have to be addressed.
215




216


FEBRUARY, 1982


In addition, efforts must be made to (1) intensify the existing energy savings program through greater efficiency in space
utilization, (2) achieve a more adequate level of State support,
and (3) increase gift support.
Vice-President Frye commented that the general framework
for retrenchment and reallocation of the $20 million of general
funds would consist of two components: selective program reductions or closure, and variable shared reductions. He then
described the procedures to be followed for each component. It
is anticipated that this five-year plan will commence during the
1982-83 fiscal year. It will hopefully avoid haphazard or random
cuts and will encourage long-range programmatic planning. A
tracking system will be developed to assure adherence to the
goals set forth in the plan and clear accountability for decisions.
All budgetary and administrative units will be expected to
participate in the plan and affirmative action policies will continue to be followed. Dr. Frye also mentioned some of the concerns that need addressing during these critical years, including:
preserving academic integrity as relationships between the University, Industry, and Government are explored, protecting the
quality of instruction, preserving interdisciplinary teaching and
scholarship, providing and preserving an environment in which
there is an opportunity for all members of the faculty to develop
and flourish, nurturing liberal arts and the humanities in particular to maintain excellence in these disciplines, and protecting
tenured faculty wherever possible by meticulously following the
regental guidelines for the discontinuance of academic programs.
Vice-President Frye concluded by saying that this "framework for planning" should be considered a process through
which the redistribution of University resources would better
meet the highest priority needs of the faculty and the students.
Regent Nederlander commented that this plan has been
devised assuming certain funding levels. He asked if alternative
plans had been developed if these assumptions did not materialize.
Vice-President Frye indicated that if the worst case scenario
should develop, then the priority items, such as salary improvement, etc., would have to be reconsidered with further budget
cuts as the most likely solution.
Regent Baker commented that, in his view, the proposed
plan is realistic and sensitive to the needs of the institution, the
faculty, staff, and the students. He said that he was supportive
of the concept.
Regent Varner asked if sponsored research would be discouraged. Vice-President Frye responded that this was not his




FEBRUARY, 1982


217


intention. Sponsored research, however, tends to generate its
own costs, therefore, it cannot be used to cover the ongoing costs
of the University. The University should encourage those things
that are important for the institution and not as a way of solely
accommodating to the general fund retrenchment.
Regent Roach commended the administration for taking a
longer planning course in reviewing budget prospects, and he
hoped the University would continue in this vein. He expressed
a concern, however, regarding the regental role of establishing
policy versus the executive officers' role of management and administrative matters. The establishment of new programs or adding to existing programs when cutbacks are recommended could
very well get into the policy area. In certain instances decisions
will be hard to classify. Therefore, he asked, what role the
Regents should play in resolving policy issues?
Vice-President Frye indicated that the Regents would be
kept regularly informed and any issue that the executive officers
think is of a policy nature would be presented to the Regents
even though the issue does not involve program closure or review.
Regent Roach suggested that all budgetary assumptions on
the part of the units should be clearly identified, and if the
assumption is not a certainty, there should be an alternate plan.
Interdisciplinary programs must be looked upon favorably; they
should not be decreased.
President Shapiro commented that commitment to this plan
had not been firmly set at this time and the actual framework
would depend upon circumstances as they arise. Although the
plan might take years to fully develop and mature, it would
be implemented immediately in order to make the initial adjustments by July 1, 1982. As the Regents, executive officers, and
University community develop experience, there would be
ample opportunity to alter the plan. It is important, however, to
begin the process immediately.
Regent Power remarked that she was supportive of the plan
and felt it offered the Regents and the University the opportunity
to reposition the University. Interdisciplinary programs have
progressed very well, and hopefully, will continue. Regent Power
asked several questions: (1) was the reallocation figure of $20
million over the next five years sufficient, (2) does the proposal
include closure of a school or college, if appropriate, (3) what is
the selection procedure for the committees on budget priorities
and budget administration, (4) what are the governance and
decision making procedures to be followed, and (5) how will
the various constituents be involved in the plan when the end
of the academic year is very near.




218


FEBRUARY, 1982


Vice-President Frye commented that the plan, as presented,
has been reviewed by the budget priorities committee and the
budget administration committee, the deans group, the academic
affairs advisory committee of faculty and students and the Senate
Assembly. The plan was supported and accepted by each group.
President Shapiro indicated that reallocating $20 million
would not solve the University's problems, but was an aspect of
a much broader strategy. Efforts must be made to intensify private fund raising, to intensify support from other sources to the
extent possible, and to look for a new and better relationship
with the State of Michigan. To achieve the University's objectives, all of these elements must come into place. He indicated
that if the Board wished to formally approve this planning
framework, of course, it would be helpful.
Regent Varner commented that she would hope that the
positive aspects of the plan would be emphasized as it is discussed
throughout the University community to overcome some of the
insecurity and anxiety that is inevitable.
Regent Roach then moved to endorse in principle the plan as
submitted. Regent Baker seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Housing Rates  Vice-President Johnson indicated that the agenda included a
for 1982-83
for 1982-83 request to approve rate increases for the housing units. The
recommendation suggested a 9.95% increase for the traditional
residence halls, 12.2% increase for family housing, and 12.5%
increase for Oxford, Fletcher, and Baits housing.
Mr. Robert Hughes, Director of Housing, commented that
two student/staff committees were formed to review the finances
of University owned and operated housing and the recommended
rates were unanimously approved by both committees. Utilities
in Oxford, Fletcher, and Baits are a greater proportion of the
budget, therefore, a higher increase was recommended.
The University of Michigan is recognized as having one of
the leading housing energy management programs in the country.
The Housing division continues to work on other cost saving
measures, such as computerized food service programs which
has been successful in some areas. The experimental breakfast
option, and extended meal hours has proved to be very popular.
The proposed rate structure would fund this meal program,
maintain the present levels of service and compensate for the
business office charge backs that were assessed for the first time
this year.
After discussion, Regent Nederlander moved to approve a
rate increase of 9.95% for the traditional residence halls, 12.2%
for family housing, and 12.5% for Oxford, Fletcher, and Baits
Houses. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.




FEBRUARY, 1982


219


I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of January 14, 1982 were
approved.
II. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on investment transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnellabor relations and the Replacement Hospital Project. He also
filed a semi-annual report on expendable restricted fund, designated fund, and auxiliary activities fund.
Vice-President Overberger filed a monthly report on grants
and contracts for research.
Acting Vice-President Jacobson filed his monthly report on
the Office of University Relations and Development.
III. GIFTS AND       GRANTS                                            Gifts
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from the following
sources. They were received with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions.
Amax Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for the following funds:
Geology Department Special fund................................$  1,000.00
Geology-Mineralogy Student Aid fund........................  6,000.00
Clarence A. Siebert Scholarship fund............................  600.00
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for
the American Cancer Society, Inc. funds....................  36,583.00
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for the Arthritis
Foundation   funds............................................................   7,291.66
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn; for the
Michigan Chapter, Arthritis Foundation funds............  8,999.98
Willard J. Banyon, Jr., Benton Harbor; for the following
funds:
College of Engineering Discretionary fund................  5,000.00
Law   School fund.........................................................   250.00
Bonisteel Foundation, East Grand Rapids; for the Bonisteel
M em orial  Law   fund......................................................  20,000.00
Leo Burnett Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois; for the D.
M aynard   Phelps  fund....................................................   5,000.00
Mrs. George G. Cameron, Ann Arbor; for the Kelsey
Museum Excavations in Italy fund................................  15,000.00
Caroline P. Campbell Estate; for the Isaac E. Clary
Scholarship  fund.........................................................   43,253.02
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea; for the Alumni Center
fu n d.................................................................................   8,3 3 3.0 0
Clark Equipment Credit Corporation, Buchanan; for the
Business School Associates Program fund......................  5,000.00
Martha F. Collins, Bloomfield Hills; for the Law Library
G ifts  fu nd....................................................................... 5,000.00
Conlin Travel Bureau, Inc., Ann Arbor; for the Alumni
Center   fund......................................................................   5,000.00




220                       FEBRUARY, 1982
Conlin-Dodds Travel, Ltd., Champaign, Illinois; for the
A lum ni  Center  fund.....................................................   5,000.00
DeRoy Testamentary Foundation, Detroit; for the Helen
L. DeRoy Visiting Professorship in Honors fund........      20,000.00
Charles B. and Charles R. DeVlieg Foundation, Royal Oak;
for the DeVlieg Fellowship and Scholarship in Engineering fund..............................................  10,000.00
Dow Chemical Company, Midland; for the following funds:
Steele and Mary Bailey Engineering Student Loan fund          3,500.00
Business School fund..........................................  50.00
College of Engineering fund..........................................  260.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts fund........      325.00
Minority and Female Scholarships in Engineering fund          2,000.00
School of Public Health fund........................................  100.00
Radrick Farms Golf Course fund..................................  500.00
University of Michigan Friends of the Opera fund....            25.00
University Musical Society Gifts fund..........................  100.00
Unrestricted  fund..................................................  25.00
Vital Margin fund..............................................  275.00
W UOM      fund...............................................................  35.00
Richard Earhart, Mount Dora, Florida; for the following
funds:
Alumni Center fund..............................................  25,000.00
School of Business Administration Capital CampaignUndesignated fund...............................................  25,000.00
Evening News Association, Detroit; for the following funds:
School of Music Marching Band-Bowl Games fund....           10,000.00
Isadore and Leon Winkelman Chair in Retailing fund            2,500.00
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York; for
the following funds:
Chemical Engineering Special fund............................  3,000.00
College of Engineering fund..........................................  600.00
Class of 1933 Engineering fund....................................  1,500.00
Geology-Mineralogy fund..............................................  300.00
Japanese Studies Corporate Gifts fund..........................  1,500.00
Vital Margin fund..............................................  1,425.00
Ida M. Faigle Charitable Foundation, Troy; for the Francis
E. Payne Fellowship fund..............................................  5,000.00
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn; for the following
funds:
College of Architecture and Urban Planning fund........         50.00
Athletic Scholarships fund............................................  500.00
Dearborn Campus Alumni Annual fund......................        20.00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund....             375.00
Friends of the Matthaei Botanical Gardens fund........          50.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts fund........       50.00
Residential College  fund..................................................  150.00
University Musical Society Gifts fund..........................  375.00
Monola and Warren VanWicklin Memorial fund........           4,800.00
Vital Margin    fund..............................................  200.00
W U O M    fund..................................................................   13 1.00
Randall French, Holland; for the following funds:
President's fund..........................................  10,000.00
Vital Margin fund........................................      200.00
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit; for the Law
School-Law   Library Building fund..............................  10,000.00
Dr. and Mrs. Donald J. Jaffar, Southfield; for the following
funds:




FEBRUARY, 1982


221


Alumni Center   fund........................................................  1,000.00
M edical  School  fund......................................................  3,000.00
Bob  Ufer  M emorial fund................................................  1,000.00
Key Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Miami, Florida; for the Key
Pharm aceutical  funds.................................................  15,000.00
W. Eugene Lane, Romeo; for the Arthritis Research-Cassidy
fu n d..................................................................................  1 0,0 0 0.0 0
Lincoln Health Care Foundation, Grosse Pointe; for the
Maurice B. Landers, Sr. Memorial fund....................  25,610.00
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago,
Illinois; for the John D. MacArthur Chair fund......... 1,200,000.00
Paul W. McCracken, Ann Arbor; for the School of Business
Administration Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund         10,000.00
Mette Foundation, Detroit; for the Norman Mette Scholarship  fund...................................................................  12,000.00
Michigan-Eye Bank, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan-Eye
B ank  fund........................................................................  11,182.00
Michigan Foundation for Medical and Health Education,
Lansing; for the following funds:
James D. Bruce Fellowship in Graduate Medical
E ducation   fund........................................................  8,147.00
Michigan Foundation Loan fund.................................  3,882.00
Michigan Gas Association, Flint; for the Michigan Gas
Association-Acidization Research fund..............   22,900.00
Microwave Associates, Inc., Burlington, Massachusetts; for
the Microwave Associates-Haddad fund........................  18,750.00
Mrs. Charles Stewart Mott, Flint; for the Eye Center
Ophthalmology Consolidation fund..............................  100,000.00
National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, Inc.,
New York, New York; for the National Fund for
M inority  Engineering  Students fund.............................  12,150.00
Robert E. Nederlander, Birmingham; for the Robert E.
Nederlander Law School Faculty Support fund........       5,000.00
Palladium Publishing Company, Benton Harbor; for the
College of Engineering Discretionary fund..................  10,000.00
Pamour Porcupine Mines, Ltd., Timmins, Ontario; for the
Geology Department Special fund..............................  8,000.00
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene B. Power, Ann Arbor; for the following funds:
Clements  Library  Associates  fund................................  50.00
Power  Center  Addition  fund.........................................  75,000.00
Ransom Medical Education and Medical Research Foundation, Ann Arbor; for the Henry King Ransom Professorship  in  Law   fund.................................................  20,000.00
Research Fund of the American Otological Society, Inc.,
Bronx, New York; for the American Otological Society
fu n d s..................................................................................  5,3 9 8.5 0
Samuel and Pearle H. Reubene, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania;
for the School of Music Dean's Discretionary fund....    10,000.00
Professor and Mrs. Charles H. Sawyer, Ann Arbor; for
the following funds:
Fedele  F. Fauri  M emorial  fund....................................  50.00
Museum of Art Friends Acquisitions fund.5,000.00
M useum    of  Art Special fund.....................0.............   200.00
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc., Kenilworth, New Jersey;
for the Schering-Plough Educational fund..........5,000.00
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena, California; for the Intercollegiate Bands fund..5,000.00




222


FEBRUARY, 1982


Professor and Mrs. Leland Stowe, Ann Arbor; for the
Leland Stowe Journalism     Essay Award fund..............   10,000.00
A. Alfred Taubman, Troy; for the A. Alfred Taubman
M edical  Library   fund...................................................  100,000.00
Townsend and Bottum, Inc., Ann Arbor; for the following
funds:
Curtis  E.  Bottum   fund....................................................  10,000.00
Bob  Ufer  M em orial  fund.............................................  1,000.00
Union Carbide Corporation, Tarrytown, New York; for the
following funds:
Institute of Industrial Health Project 4 fund................  1,000.00
Union Carbide Grant-In-Aid in Mechanical Engineering fund...............................................  4,000.00
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for the United Cerebral  Palsy-Gilm an   fund................................................  15,808.00
Helen Bates Van Tyne Estate; for the Helen Bates Van
Tyne   fund.............................................................   16,300.00
Warner and Swasey Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio; for the
Business School Associates Program     fund....................  5,000.00
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor; for the Psychopharmacology Research   fund......................................................................   6,6 00.00
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey;
for the following funds:
Internal Medicine Discretionary fund............................  10,000.00
Warner-Lambert Colloquium on Science and Public
P o licies   fu n d............................................................  4,000.00
Warner-Lambert Medicinal Chemistry Graduate Student  Support  fund..................................................  5,000.00
Elaine P. Wehmeyer Estate; for the Lewis E. and Elaine
Prince Wehmeyer Professorship in the Taxonomy of
F u n gi   fu nd......................................................................   6,5 54.8 1
Weirton Steel Division, National Steel Corporation, Weirton,
West Virginia; for the National Steel Corporation Fellowship fund...............................................   7,750.00
Raymond L. Wilder, Santa Barbara, California; for the G.
Y. Rainich Mathematics Lectureship fund....................  10,000.00
The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
Carleton G. Carver, Toledo, Ohio. Toledo Trust Corporation, Inc., common stock; for the Alumni Center fund          10,036.25
Mr. and Mrs. Karl G. Kempf, Myrtle Beach, South
Carolina. Thomas and Betts Corporation, common
stock; divided as follows:
Athletic  Scholarships  fund..............................................   3,000.00
P resident's   fund................................................................   5,475.00
Douglas P. Moore, Grand Rapids. One National Detroit
Corporation, 9% installment note; for the Fred J.
Hodges   M  emorial  fund................................................  6,250.00
Bernice H. McClure Estate. Exxon Corporation and Mobil
Corporation, common stock; divided as follows:
Plastic Surgery Cleft Palate fund................................  11,994.00
University of Michigan Cancer Research Institute fund         11,994.00
Margaret M. McIntosh, Boca Raton, Florida. Norris Industries, Inc., common stock; for the Alumni Center
fu n d.............................................................   10,2 6 5.6 3
William K. Najjar, Grand Rapids. Johnson & Johnson, common stock; for the Dr. and Mrs. William K. Najjar fund       201,368.75




FEBRUARY, 1982


223


Donald S. Smith, Davisburg. Federal-Mogul Corporation
and Weyerhaeuser Company, common stock; for the
Cyclotron Positron Emission Tomography Scanner
Project  fund......................................................................  24,250.00
Mr. and Mrs. Stewart G. Smith, Grosse Ile. Security BanCorp, Incorporated, common stock; divided as follows:
Law   School fund..............................................................   100.00
Law School-Law Library Building fund........................  5,000.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts fund........  100.00
President's fund...........................................  2,303.75
and a cash gift for the President's fund......................  616.00
The following nonmonetary, noncash gifts were received:
Mary Pfiester Bailey, Ann Arbor. Four books; for the Misha Titiev
Library
Francis K. Blouin, Ann Arbor. Seventeen pamphlets and broadsides relating to banking in Massachusetts, dated 1829 through 1849; for the
William L. Clements Library
John C. Cowan, Peoria, Illinois. A framed photograph of a Chinese
Idograph of a domesticated soybean; for the Museum of Anthropology
John C. Dann, Dexter. A pamphlet: Economy is Wealth..., authored by
the West Philadelphia Homestead Association, 1855; for the
William L. Clements Library
Mr. and Mrs. Willard J. Frey, Ann Arbor. Three tropical water lilies;
for the Botanical Gardens
Donald A. Hodges, Farmington Hills. One water Lily Nymphaea, cv.
Red Flare; for the Botanical Gardens
Joel Johnson, Belleville. One Phoenix canareenses; for the Botanical
Gardens
Ivan Joseph Lahaie, Ann Arbor. One camera back, Konica Model TC;
for the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Albert James Logan, Ann Arbor. Three tree peonies; for the Botanical
Gardens
Horace H. Miner, Ann Arbor. Artifacts from Cave Hollow, Arkansas,
Paleolithic tools from Algeria and five photographs; for the Museum
of Anthropology
John L. Tottenham, Pepper Pike, Ohio. Fifty-six issues of the Sun
London, dated from January 12, to October 31, 1812; for the
William L. Clements Library
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS                                            Personnel
Actions
The following personnel actions were approved by the
Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND                  Appointments
SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Russell N. DeLong, M.D., Professor Emeritus of Neurology, appointed
to active status, January 1, 1982
Christopher Porterfield, appointed the Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor of Journalism, January 5 to 29, 1982
Vaclav Rajlich, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Computer and Communication Sciences, without tenure, January 1, 1982
Harry W. Sargous, A.B., Associate Professor of Music, without tenure,
September, 1982
Michael William Udow, D.Mus.Arts, Associate Professor of Music, without tenure, September, 1982




224                   FEBRUARY, 1982
Promotions, etc. CHANGES IN SATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective March 1, 1982 unless otherwise indicated
Helen Erickson, Assistant Professor of Nursing, appointed Interim
Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Studies, School of Nursing
Barbara Hansen, Professor of Nursing, appointed Associate Dean for
Planning and Development, School of Nursing
Janice Lindberg, Associate Professor of Nursing, appointed Interim
Assistant Dean for Student and Alumni Affairs
Michael McCulloch Martin, Professor of Chemistry and Professor of
Biological Sciences, with tenure, appointed Chairman of the Division of Biological Sciences, July 1, 1982 through June 30, 1985
Stanley A. Schwartz, M.D., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, without tenure, also appointed Associate
Professor in the Department of Epidemiology, without salary
Lillian Simms, Associate Professor of Nursing, appointed Interim Assistant Dean of Clinical Affairs, School of Nursing
Susan Steckel, Associate Professor of Nursing, appointed Interim Assistant Dean of Graduate Studies, School of Nursing
Leaves of    The Regents approved two extensions to leaves of absence for
Lorraine R. Perry, Professor of Social Work, and David H.
Krantz, Professor of Psychology. The Regents also approved
awarding the emeritus title to Arnet B. Epple, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, who had been on disability leave
for a number of years and had recently died.
Personnel Reports V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
Appointments       NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1982 unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Odile Gita Eisenstein, Ph.D., Chemistry
Barbara A. Israel, Dr.P.H., Health Education, Public Health
Instructor
Muzaffar Ahmed, M.B., B.S., Anesthesiology, December 28, 1981
Ian R. Fletcher, M.B., B.S., Anesthesiology
Andrew B. Leach, M.B.CH.B., Anesthesiology
Lecturer
Randolph B. Cooper, M.B.A., Computer and Information Systems
Lydia G. Mallett, M.L.I.R., Management, UM-Flint
Catherine J. Murphy, M.B., Family Practice, Medical School
Vladimir Pucik, M.I.A., International Business
Betsy D. Shevey, M.F.A., Theatre, UM-Flint
Visiting Professor
Martin J. Adelman, J.D., Law
Arthur Brown, Ed.D., Education




FEBRUARY, 1982                         225
Michael J. Devitt, Ph.D., Philosophy
Roger W. Findley, J.D., Law
Kurt L. Hanslowe, J.D., Law
Ray E. Helfer, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, January
4, 1982
Patrick Juillard, LL.M., Law
Ravi S. Kulkarni, Ph.D., Mathematics
Per Lachmann, LL.M., Law
Alexander W. MacRae, Ph.D., Psychology
Visiting Associate Professor
Harry Bowers, M.F.A., Art
Harold J. Hughes, M.S., Dentistry
Visiting Assistant Professor
Kari Astala, M.A., Mathematics
Kenneth H. Ober, Ph.D., Germanic Language and Literatures
Max I. Wagner, Dr.rev.nat., Mathematics
Visiting Lecturer
E. Suresh, M.S., International Business
Ian R. Zimmer, M.A., Accounting
Adjunct Professor
Harvey R. Kaplan, Ph.D., Pharmacology
Karl E. Reichardt, Ph.D., Accounting
Adjunct Associate Professor
Thomas E. Croley II, Ph.D., Civil Engineering
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Shirley M. Collins, M.P.H., Nursing, UM-Flint
Deepak Kumar Goyal, Ph.D., Computer and Information Systems
Margaret A. Murray, M.S.N., Nursing, UM-Flint
David J. Schwab, Ph.D., Atmospheric and Oceanic Science, September 1,
1982
Adjunct Instructor
Frank J. Sorise, M.Arch., Architecture
Adjunct Lecturer
Bruce L. Benson, Ph.D., Sociology/Anthropology, UM-Flint
John-Phillip Kling, Ph.D., Economics, UM-Flint
James R. Kot, B.A., Music, UM-Flint
Ching Fang Lin, Ph.D., Electrical and Computer Engineering
Clayton L. Liscom, M.B.A., Economics, UM-Flint
J. Dwight McEntire, J.D., Management, UM-Dearborn
Lewis A. Morrissey, B.A., English, UM-Flint
Jack E. Nelson, M.S., Physics, UM-Dearborn
Linda G. Oaklander, M.A., Philosophy, UM-Flint
Robert N. Rodriguez, Ph.D., Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Michael Shapiro, M.S., Mathematics, UM-Flint
Edward F. Smith, B.M., Music, UM-Flint
Joseph W. Trigg, M.S., Computer Science, UM-Flint




226


FEBRUARY, 1982


Clinical Assistant Professor
Carl H. Lederman, D.D.S., M.S., Dentistry, October 1, 1981
Michael L. Ryan, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
Clinical Instructor
Frances G. Couch, M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology
Stephen A. Evans, B.S., Pharmacy
William A. Gregory, D.D.S., Dentistry, January 4, 1982
Robert D. Hughes, D.D.S., Dentistry, January 25, 1982
Olya K. Lash, B.S., Pharmacy
Ellen J. Messing, J.D., Law
Naga H. V. Prasad, D.D.S., Dentistry
Clinical Lecturer
Eun Sook Kim, M.S., Dentistry
Promotions, etc. CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on January 1, 1982 unless otherwise indicated
Charles W. Bailey, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Sociology,
UM-Flint
Robert J. Crossen, from Clinical Associate Professor to Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology
Kathleen T. McCahran, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of
Accounting
Eugene W. Kuthy, from Adjunct Associate Professor to Lecturer in
Business Administration, UM-Flint
Gale E. Newell, from Visiting Professor to Adjunct Professor of
Accounting
Resignations    TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS
Effective December 31, 1981 unless otherwise indicated
Professor
T. Francis Ogilvie, Fluid Mechanics, Naval Architecture and Marine
Engineering
Associate Professor
Paul M. Siegle, Sociology
Assistant Professor
Gordon R. Brewster, Geography
Barbara A. Colwell, Nursing, January 5, 1982
Edward A. Lebowitz, Radiology, January 22, 1982
Harry E. Schneiter, Jr., Family Practice, Medical School
Clinical Instructor
Duane D. Harrison, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Neil F. Jones, Surgery
Tamilyn V. Kraeger, Dental Hygiene, January 9, 1982
Alan B. Wood, Surgery, December 17, 1981
Leaves of    Four leaves without salary, seven sabbatical leaves, two
Absence extended sick leaves and two retirement furloughs were reported
to the Regents.




FEBRUARY, 1982


227


The Regents then heard comments from the following in- Public Comments
dividuals on the topics indicated: David Jackson, student,
change in the grading policy in the Medical School; Bert Hornback, Professor of English, the current direction of the smaller
and better concept; Howard Markel, student, overcrowding of
classes; Tom Blessing, Chairman of the Resource Recovery
Commission, solid waste as it relates to the High Technology
Park; Jon Feiger, President of Michigan Student Assembly, on
the general MSA projects.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1982
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Dunn,
Nederlander, Power, Roach, Varner, and Waters. Chancellors
Jenkins and Nelson and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye,
Overberger, Johnson, Acting Vice-President Jacobson, and VicePresident and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regent
Brown was absent.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order and indicated  innual
that the twelve-month investment report would be the first item  Report
on the agenda.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff introduced Norman Herbert,
University Investment Officer, and Mel Rosek and Don Lindow
from the National Bank of Detroit. He then commented that
economic conditions have had a depressing effect on the investment program. Vice-President Brinkerhoff suggested that the
several items, particularly those involving options and real estate,
which request action be deferred until next month so that further questions and discussion can be accommodated.
Mr. Herbert indicated that the report included the status of
the University's endowment funds for the year ending December
31, 1981, reflecting the University's objective to protect the purchasing power of the endowment pools corpus. The recommendations include the addition of stock to the University's list of
common stocks, increasing the use of using the Common Fund
for equities, participation in an options writing program as a
source of incremental income, and participation in a real estate
limited partnership program as both a further diversification of
endowment funds.
Mr. Don Lindow summarized some of the significant changes
which occurred in the endowment funds during 1981. He said
that, with respect to fixed income investments, major emphasis
was placed on the purchase of discount bonds of shorter maturity
placing less emphasis on current income and providing inflation
protection for the endowment funds since it is the bank's expectation that interest rates will decline in 1982.




228


FEBRUARY, 1982


Mr. Mel Rosek commented that the performance of The
University of Michigan's endowment funds over the past several
years reflect the generally unsatisfactory performance of the
financial markets in both absolute terms and relative to inflation.
Mr. Rosek indicated that last year the bank felt that bonds
were a better investment only because they did not decline as
much as stocks. Over the long term, there is no way to achieve
the University's goals with fixed income assets in an inflationary
environment without transferring income to principal. Therefore,
money management at the present time requires imagination
and constructive innovation.
Last year the Regents authorized a securities lending program to add income and, happily, the program did generate some
additional income. Mr. Rosek then proposed the University's
participation in the following programs: investing in an opportunity fund, participating in the Common Fund for Equities,
stock options and a real estate program. The options strategies
he proposed consisted of a Buy-Write program, an Internal
Overwrite for incremental income and risk reduction, and the
Protective Put Purchase program which can be compared to
an insurance policy.
Mr. Herbert indicated that the options writing program
would not allow authorization by the University Officers prior
to purchase as is the present procedure because buying or selling
an option will be done on very short notice. Therefore, it was
suggested that the University provide an opportunity under the
Buy-Write program for the National Bank of Detroit to buy the
necessary securities, to execute or implement the Buy-Write
program without regard for the University's master list of stocks,
and to execute these options, as appropriate, given the market
conditions and report to the University on a regular basis.
Considerable discussion followed concerning the amount of
money to set aside for the Buy-Write program, the necessity to
increase the monitoring of the options, the amount of risk the
University would incur, the handling of the call options if the
price of the stock should decline. Mr. Rosek commented that the
obiective of the options program is to reduce the market risk,
therefore, options were considered a prudent fiduciary activity.
Mr. Rosek then discussed the proposed real estate investment program. He said the program would provide income and
would diversitfy the portfolio. Some of the problems associated
with real estate are that it is difficult to diversify with a moderate
size investment and intensive management is required. By entering a partnership, as proposed, these objections would cause
little difficulty. The National Bank of Detroit projects a modest
recovery in the second half of the year and expects an end to




FEBRUARY, 1982


229


the decline in activity. The partnership would be of a limited
nature and the combined resources of the partnership would
allow diversification of investments.
The Regents requested further information concerning the
advisability of setting limits on option fund strategies, the kind
of liquidity the University would have with respect to the real
estate program, and the advisability of reinvesting some of the
income from the University's fixed income securities.
There will be further discussion and action on this subject
at the March meeting.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the recommendation for w. K. Kellogg
approval of the site, and Mr. Frederick Mayer described the  ye Center
schematic design for the Ophthalmology research and faculty
building. The site recommended is immediately west of the
Parkview Building. The University is in the process of acquiring the property at the present time. The new facility would be
named the W. K. Kellogg Eye Center.
Regent Roach moved to approve the site subject to the
acquisition of the land within sixty days and approved the schematic design which would allow the architect to proceed with
design development and working drawings for the Research and
Faculty wing of the Ophthalmology project. Regent Nederlander
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The proposed addition of a Fine Arts Library to Tappan  Tappan Hall
Hall was then reviewed by Mr. Mayer. He said that after careful
consideration it was determined that the south side of Tappan
Hall would be the better site for the addition. The Regents posed
questions concerning the architectural relationship of the proposed facility to Clements Library and the President's House,
and the source of funds for the project.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff explained that the facade would
blend well with existing buildings and resources would be provided by the plant renovation funds if sufficient funding was not
obtained through fund raising activities.
Regent Baker moved to approve the project, authorize the
fund raising, assign the building site, and approve the appointment of Luckenbach Ziegelman/Associates of Birmingham,
Michigan as the architect for the project, subject to a composite
showing the facade of the proposed addition in relation to the
other buildings on South University. Regent Nederlander
seconded the motion and it was adopted. The composite will be
presented to the Regents in March.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Secretary Kennedy reported the retirement of three faculty
members. The following memoirs were adopted.




230


FEBRUARY, 1982


W. C. Rhodes     WILLIAM CONLEY RHODES, Professor of Psychology and EducaRetirement tion, and Program Director for Psychology at the Institute for the Study
of Mental Retardation and Related Disabilities, retired from active
faculty status December, 1981. He was well recognized for able teaching,
scholarship concerning mental health concepts and practices, and extensive publications.
A native of Louisiana, he began his academic career at Emory
University, receiving an A.B. in 1948 and an M.A. in Experimental Psychology in 1949; his Ph.D. was from Ohio State in Clinical Psychology
in 1953. His first position was Director, Division of Mental Hygiene in
Georgia. In 1956 he became Director of the Peabody Child Study Center
at Peabody College. During this period he became involved in the
nationally recognized innovative program for rehabilitation of emotionally disturbed children, Project Re-Ed. His specific responsibility was
evaluation of program efficacy. He also assumed responsibility for
Peabody's Community Psychology Program. His next role was an
Assistant Section Chief, Child Mental Health, in the National Institute
of Mental Health, where he served from 1963-1967. He then moved to
The University of Michigan where he held appointments in the School of
Public Health, School of Education, and the Washtenaw County Community Mental Health Center as well as roles as Professor of Psychology
and Program Director for Psychology at ISMRRD.
Dr. Rhodes is nationally recognized for leadership in community
mental health interventions. His contributions range from specific demonstration projects to regional coordinated efforts based upon an ecological
model. While his main focus has been on the mental health of children
and youth, the rang of his innovations cover infancy through old age.
His teaching reflected a blend of direct program commitment and an
objectivity born of intensive scholarship applied to issues underlying
program efforts. Rhodes was a national leader in the movement of mental
health activity from a medical model to a community-ecological model.
His dual concern for the philosophical and psychological nature of
deviance eventually led him to write what is considered a landmark series.
This is a five volume work, A Study of Child Variance, published by the
University of Michigan Press. A child variance series starts with two
volumes: Conceptual Models and Intervention Models. An historical and
conceptual analysis of service delivery follows in the next two publications.
Finally in the culminating volume, Rhodes looks to the future and provides guidelines for national planning as well as specific procedures to
apply his concepts in a wide variety of situations.
The Regents now salute this distinguished Mental Health educator
by naming him Professor Emeritus of Psychology.
A. G. Richards    ALBERT GUSTAV RICHARDS, B.S.E., M.S., Marcus L. Ward ProRetirement fessor of Dentistry, began retirement furlough from the Department of
Oral Diaignosis and Radiology at the School of Dentistry on January 1,
1981 after a career at the University that spanned more than 40 years.
A creative, inventive researcher and outstanding teacher, Professor
Richards is known as one of the world's foremost authorities in the field
of dental radiology. Among his many accomplishments are the invention
of the recessed cone X-ray head (now standard equipment in dental
offices), using electron microscopy to view the internal structure of teeth,
and a liquid mold technique for showing the topography of surfaces that
has had diverse applications in other fields, for example, in determining
fingerprints of burn victims. Other products of his inventive mind are
dynamic tomography, a radiographic procedure that allows physicians
and dentists to examine living tissue layer by layer, and the Buccal Object
Rule, a method for determining the relative location of objects hidden
in the oral region. He holds seven patents on inventions.




FEBRUARY, 1982


231


Born in Chicago in 1917, Professor Richards earned the B.S. degree
in chemical engineering at the U-M in 1940, after which he joined the
staff at the School as instructor. Already an advanced amateur photographer, making his own color prints in the 1930's when they were a rarity,
he focused his interests on X-ray photography and its application to dentistry, teaching himself dental radiology. In 1943 he received the M.S.
degree in physics from the U-M. By 1959 he was made professor and in
1974 was named the Marcus L. Ward Professor of Dentistry, the first
distinguished professorship at the School. He has won many honors for
his teaching and research, including the establishment by the School of
the Albert G. Richards Award for Excellence in Radiography to be
given annually to a student. He is the author of more than 100 publications and an active member of many professional organizations. Professor
Richards is also well known for his beautiful floral radiographs which
have been exhibited in art and photography shows across the country.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his
dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
ALBERT H. WHEELER, Professor of Microbiology and Immunology in the Department of Microbiology and Immuniology, retired from
active faculty status as of December 31, 1981, after a most productive
career in teaching, in research and in service to the University and the
community.
A native of St. Louis, Missouri, Dr. Wheeler took undergraduate
studies at Lincoln University in Pennsylvania and obtained an M.S. at
Iowa State College before entering the School of Public Health at The
University of Michigan in 1937. He received his M.S.P.H. in 1938 and his
Dr. P.H. in 1944. After serving as a Research Associate in the Hospital
Serology Laboratory from 1944-1952, he joined the faculty of the Departments of Dermatology and Microbiology. He was promoted to Associate
Professor in these Departments in 1959. Dr. Wheeler published 26 articles
in scientific journals and had 19 abstracts published in the proceedings of
various societal meetings. From 1952-1970 he was Director of the
Treponemal Laboratory at the University of Michigan. This was the
first university-based laboratory of its kind in the nation and maintained
an outstanding reputation throughout its existence. Dr. Wheeler gained
national recognition and served on various committees of the Venereal
Disease Branch of the USPHS and the American Venereal Disease Association. In addition to these endeavors, Dr. Wheeler was responsible for a
major share of teaching to Nursing and Medical Technology students,
including at one point having sole responsibility for teaching immunology
to the Medical Technology students.
In 1970, Dr. Wheeler took a four-year leave of absence to serve as
Director of the Department of Christian Service in the Catholic Archdiocese of Detroit. During the period of the late 1960's and early 1970's
there was a compelling need for leaders within deprived minority communities to take constructive roles in evolutionary changes which would
have great impact on society. Dr. Wheeler unselfishly took up this charge
and became a prominent figure in efforts to improve the quality of life
for Black Americans. He became very active in a wide variety of committees and groups in the local community, in Metropolitan Detroit, in the
State of Michigan and in the nation. This record was augmented by his
serving as Mayor of Ann Arbor for two terms and by his appointment
by President Carter to the Mayor's Advisory Council to the White House
Office of Drug Abuse Policy.
In 1974, Dr. Wheeler returned to the Department of Microbiology
where he was able to quickly reachieve his high level of performance
in teaching and service. He co-directed the microbiology laboratory course
for Allied Health Science students and assumed the major role in re

A. H. Wheeler
Retirement




232


FEBRUARY, 1982


A. B. Epple
Memorial
Statement and
Emeritus Status
W. A. Oberdick
Memorial
Statement


structuring and directly the laboratory portion of the course for secondyear medical students. In addition to fulfilling these teaching functions,
Dr. Wheeler provided outstanding service to the University as a mediator
in negotiations between the administration and black students. He was
promoted to Professor of Microbiology and Immunology in 1978.
The Regents now saluate this distinguished health educator for
his dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Microbiology
and Immunology.
VII. DEATHS
Secretary Kennedy reported the death of Arnet B. Epple,
Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering. The request to
bestow emeritus status retroactive to October 3, 1973 to Professor Epple was approved unanimously; and the death of Willard
A. Oberdick, Emil Lorch Professor of Architecture. The memorial statements follow.
Arnet B. Epple, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering died
January 15, 1982 in Salem, Oregon. He was 70 years of age.
Professor Epple received the B.S./M.E. from the University of Wisconsin in 1933 and the M.S./M.E. in 1934. From 1934 to 1941 he was a
Sales Engineer for B. F. Sturtevant Company in Boston, Massachusetts.
From 1941 to 1944 he was an Instructor at the Michigan College of
Mining and Technology, and from 1944-45 was Chief Test Engineer at
Norge Division of Borg-Warner Corporation in Detroit, Michigan. He
joined the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of
Michigan as an Assistant Professor in 1945 and was promoted to Associate
Professor in 1949. He was active in research and teaching in the field of
heating, air-conditioning and industrial ventilation. He was a registered
Professional Engineer in Michigan and active in the American Society of
Heating, Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Engineers.
Among students, faculty and staff, Professor Epple is remembered
as an exceptionally dedicated teacher. Early in his career he developed
Multiple Sclerosis and it gradually became more and more difficult for
him to walk; however, he refused to give up and continued his teaching
until forced to go on sick leave and then disability leave in January, 1971.
It is requested that Professor Epple be given Emeritus status retroactive to his retirement from disability leave effective October 3, 1976.
With great sadness, the Regents of the University acknowledge the
loss of Willard A. Oberdick, Emil Lorch Professor of Architecture, who
died suddenly on the eleventh of February at the age of fifty-nine.
Professor Oberdick received a Bachelor of Architecture (Construction) degree at Michigan in 1947 and joined the faculty of the College
of Architecture and Design in 1948. Beginning as an instructor in structural theory, his early research on the behavior of thin-shell concrete
was a pioneering effort in this country. This led to extensive investigations
into the use in buildings of reinforced and cellular plastics and plastic
sealants. Professor Oberdick was among the first to explore computer
simulation of the thermal performance of buildings. This became the
foundation for his continuing development of computer-based building
information systems and life-cost analyses. During the past ten years, his
research has centered on energy conservation and solar energy applications in buildings. The Regents recognize the importance of his input
to the energy conservation program developed and applied with considerable success in recent years in University of Michigan buildings.
A strong proponent of a more rigorous methodology in the technical




FEBRUARY, 1982


233


design of buildings, Professor Oberdick made a significant contribution
to instruction in architecture by his founding and almost singlehanded
development of the Building Technology Laboratory as a teaching tool.
An important adjunct of the Architectural Research Laboratory, the
Building Technology Laboratory is a unique facility, unmatched in any
other school of architecture. Professor Oberdick was a tireless teacher,
at his best in mutual exploration of a knotty problem with the individual
student. He taught at all levels of the program, and supervised doctoral
research in building technology. As a resource for the inquisitive student,
he was available, literally, at any hour of the day or night.
In terms of extraordinary and selfless devotion of time and effort to
the advance of education and research in the College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, Professor Oberdick became a legend. In recognition of
his many contributions to the life of his College, in 1977 the Regents
named him to a distinguished professorship as Emil Lorch Professor of
Architecture.
The students and faculty of the College of Architecture and Urban
Planning are deeply grieved by the loss of their beloved friend, mentor
and colleague of thirty-four years. The Regents of the University now
also mourn the untimely passing of this devoted teacher and convey to his
family their heartfelt sympathies.
VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the     Amendments to
Regents approved the following amendments to the degree lists:     egree
Law School
Juris Doctor, August 1981
add:
Geoffrey Grant Bestor, B.A., cum laude, The American College in
Paris
School of Library Science
Master of Arts in Library Science, December 1981
delete:
Christopher B. Welsh, A.B., University of Detroit
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, May 1981
add:
Lauren Sue Fletcher
Bachelor of Science, May 1981
correct to show:
Steven Holt Mueller with Highest Distinction and Honors in
Computer & Communication Sciences
Bachelor of Science, May 2, 1980
correct to show:
William Dean Stanton with Honors in Computer and Communication
Sciences
Bachelor of Arts, August 1981
add:
Sharon Leslie Feldman




234


FEBRUARY, 1982


Christine Marie Kwasny
Christina Smith
Bachelor of Science, August 1981
add:
Kathleen C. Y. Sie with Distinction
F. E. Werle,  The Regents confirmed the degree Bachelor of Music for
Degree Confirmed Floyd Edwards Werle, Chief Arranger fo the United States Air
Force Band.
Degrees   The Regents confirmed the degrees conferred at the DecemConfirmed ber 1981 Commencement exercises.


H. Russel Award
Recipients


The Regents approved the appointments of David M. Burns,
Associate Professor of Mathematics and John T. Lehman, Associate Professor of Biological Sciences as the recipients of the
Henry Russell award.


IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Hospital Bond  The Regents received further information regarding the
Anticipation,..                  P i 
Notes bond anticipation notes for the replacement hospital project.


Auditors for
1981-82
Donor Pooled
Income Fund
Biological
Station Addition


The Regents unanimously approved the reappointment of
Price, Waterhouse and Company as auditors for 1981-82.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the audit report for the
Donor Pooled Income Fund for the year ending December 31,
1981, and the Regents accepted the report.
Regent Roach moved to approve the construction of a new
lecture hall at the Biological Station, Douglas Lake, and to
authorize the fund raising for the project, and to approve the
appointment of Charles W. Lane as the architect. Regent
Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted. The
project will not be released for bids until sufficient funds have
been identified, and will be brought back to the Regents for final
approval.


Renovations  Regent Nederlander moved approval to repair the ventilating
system in the surgery wing of University Hospital and to make
certain improvements to the hot water system at the Central
Power Plant. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Real Property  The request for authorization to sell the University's forty
acre Smiths Creek property, subject to an appraisal and the
reservation of mineral rights and realtor's commission was
moved by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Nederlander, and
adopted.
The request for authorization to purchase a parcel of land
on Fuller Road, Ann Arbor, Michigan from the Detroit Edison
Company was deferred until March.




FEBRUARY, 1982


235


Regent Baker moved approval for the University of Michigan Hospitals to proceed with the proposed acquisition of the
Laboratory Computer System upgrade. Regent Power seconded
the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Power moved authorization to grant an option agreement to the Charles Stewart Mott Foundation to buy the University's East Court Street property in Flint. Regent Dunn
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Baker then mentioned the property which was under
consideration as a high technology park. He said he had some
reservations about it and had understood that the subject would
be returned to the Regents for discussion before any decision
was made.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff then described the property and
reviewed the limited partnership agreement which had been
transmitted to the Regents earlier.
Regent Baker asked for more specific information on all
those who would be involved in the project, the financial support
it would have, the control the University would have in the development of the property, and what, if any, guidelines would be
established.
Commenting on the partnership of the project, Regent Roach
said that a limited partner is liable only for the funds he committed to the project, and the University would have a voice in
the development of the property. In his view, the Regents' role in
encouraging the high technology industry to Michigan would be
a contribution to the economy of Michigan.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the Governor's recommendation deferring payment of the July, August, and September
appropriations to the University as a means of balancing the
State's budget by the end of the fiscal year. This would total
approximately $38,500,000 for the three campuses. If the
Governor's plan is implemented, the working capital needs of the
University would be met by borrowing unrestricted funds in the
investment pool. An appropriate interest rate to charge the general fund for the availability of these funds needs to be determined, but it is thought that the cost to the general fund will
approximate $1,800,000 for fiscal 1983.
Vice-President Kennedy indicated that the Governor's
recommendation would require two legislative actions: 1) the
introduction of a supplemental bill that would subtract the
fourth quarter appropriation, and 2) the inclusion in the 1982-83
appropriation bill language that would appropriate the lost
fourth quarter funds into the first quarter of the 1982-83 fiscal
year. He said there has been no action by the legislature to do
this at the present time.


Hospitals
Laboratory
Computer System
Real Property
High Technology
Park
Budget




236


FEBRUARY, 1982


Regent Power commented upon the current budget recommendations from the Executive Office of the Governor which
include the proposal that the State not pay to The University of
Michigan its fourth quarter appropriation of $38 million because
of the State's cash flow shortages. In effect, the University on its
own will have to borrow enough money to operate through the
end of the fiscal year. She seriously questioned the economic
forecast for the State Office of Management and Budget which
claims that the State would have enough tax revenues to pay
the University back next year.
She agreed that the basic question is simple: Will the economy of Michigan come back far enough and fast enough to get
the University out of hock without the terrible damage of delayed repayment or no repayment at all?
Against this, she set the pattern of support for the University
set by the State over the last ten years:
In 1970-71 the State of Michigan allocated $11.91 per
$1,000 in citizen personal income to higher education. At
that time, the State ranked twenty-first among the 50 in
state support to higher education. In 1981-82, the State of
Michigan provides $9.19 per $1,000 personal income to
higher education. That amount ranks thirty-seventh among
the states and is 15% less than the 10.60% national average.
Since 1974-75 state appropriations to The University of
Michigan-Ann Arbor have increased from $95.7 million
to $132.3 million. This represents an annual growth rate of
4.7% per year, far less than the 8.7% plus average rate of
inflation, or a sharp cut in real terms. In 1974-75 dollars, the
current appropriation is $40.3 million less than what it would
have been if inflationary adjustments only had been provided
by the State of Michigan.
Since 1974-75 tuition charges to an entering resident
freshperson have grown from $400 per term to $808 per
term. This represents an annual growth rate of 10.6% per
year. Had tuition increases been held to the rate of inflation,
1981-82 rates would have been $722, or nearly 11% less
than current amounts.
Since fiscal year 1974-75 the University's general salary
program has averaged increases of only 6.4% per year, or
2.4% per year less than the rate of inflation.
Over the past twenty months, four specific actions by
state government have resulted in reduced appropriations to
The University of Michigan-Ann Arbor. Three Executive
Orders (1980-3, 1981-8, 1981-9) cut $10.2 million, and




FEBRUARY, 1982


237


the 1980-81 appropriation act provided $7.2 million less
than the reduced 1979-80 amount. Because of unfavorable
timing in reference to the University's fiscal year, the shortfall as a result of these four actions actually totals some
$20.4 million. The 1982 appropriations will total only
$439,000 more than the amount received in 1979-80, a mere
0.3% increase in two years.
Regent Power concluded her statement saying that the conclusion is inescapable: The State has failed to keep up even
with inflation in its support to The University of Michigan, let
alone increase support in real terms. In so doing, it is seriously
threatening the quality base of the University, tragically at
precisely the time that the University constitutes one of the few
state resources that can produce vitally needed jobs and diversification for our economy.
Regent Roach remarked that, in effect, for the state to meet
its constitutional mandate of operating without a deficit, they
are forcing the University to operate at a substantial deficit.
All the above actions were by unanimous vote unless otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of January totaled $1,330.55.
The Regents adjourned to meet on March 18 and 19, 1982.
RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary




238                  FEBRUARY, 1982
INDEX
Appointments, 223, 224
Auditors for 1981-82, appointed, 234
Biological Station addition, 234
Budget, 235
Degrees: amendments to lists, 233; confirmed, 233
Donor Pooled Income Fund, 234
Epple, A. B., memorial statement, 232
Five-Year Plan, reduction and reallocation, 215
Gifts, 219
Hospitals: bond anticipation notes, 234; laboratory computer system, 235
Investment Report, annual, 227
Kellogg, W. K., Eye Center, 229
Leaves of absence, 224, 226
Oberdick, W. A., memorial statement, 232
Promotions, 224, 226
Public Comments, 227
Real Property, 235
Renovations, 234
Resignations, 226
Rhodes, W. C., retirement, 230
Richards, A. G., retirement, 230
Russel, H., award recipients approved, 234
Tappan Hall addition, 229
Werle, F. E., degree confirmed, 234
Wheeler, A. H., retirement, 231




MARCH MEETING, 1982
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, MARCH 18, 1982


The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Dunn,
Nederlander, Roach, Varner, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins
and Nelson and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Overberger,
Johnson, Acting Vice-President Jacobson and Vice-President
and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regents Brown and
Power were absent.
President Shapiro convened the meeting, calling on VicePresident Frye and his staff to review the minority enrollment
report.
Vice-President Frye commented that the emphasis of the
report differed this year by concentrating less on demographic
data and more on descriptions of unit efforts to enhance enrollment and retention.
Dr. Robert Holmes and Mr. George Goodman reviewed
the report in detail. Dr. Holmes stated each academic unit had
been requested to undertake specific reviews of their efforts to
recruit and retain minority students and to develop specific
plans to enhance those efforts where they were found to be
deficient. Dr. Holms described several of these unit activities
as well as the efforts of external groups aimed at improving
the University's capacity to attract and hold minority students.
In commenting on the data section of the report, Dr. Holmes
noted that minority enrollment increased on the three campuses
by more than 100 students. This increase was due primarily to
additional black students on the Dearborn campus and Asian
students at Ann Arbor. Black enrollment on the Ann Arbor
campus fell from 5.1% to 4.9% although total minority enrollment rose from 9.1% to 9.2%. Much of the decrease in black
enrollment occurred at the undergraduate level.
National data suggests that overall 40% of entering freshmen graduate in four years with an additional 20% graduating
eventually. At The University of Michigan about 45%  of
entering students graduate in four years while only 30% of the
black, hispanic and American indian students do so. 44%
of entering blacks do graduate within five years, however.


Minority Report


239




240


MARCH MEETING, 1982


Mr. Goodman commented on the University's difficulty in
attracting high quality out-of-state minority students. Much of
this is related to an inability to provide sufficient financial aid.
Overall, the pool of minority students is not growing yet there
is increasing competition for students in that pool. Programmatic efforts to increase that pool need to be enhanced.
While the University continues to provide the best financial
aid package for students in the state, increasing numbers of black
families are unable to commit family resources due to deteriorating economic conditions. Black students in the liberal arts
find job prospects discouraging yet they are concentrated in
those disciplines.
No one factor can be cited as the reason for the University's
inability to achieve its goals for minority enrollment. Efforts
must be continued, therefore, on a broad front to improve our
recruitment/retention performance.
Regent Baker inquired about the data which suggested that
the black student population had a higher proportion of females
than males which was the reverse of other student populations.
Mr. Goodman responded that this is a consistent national
pattern and is probably due to the fact that male students are
less likely to finish high school.
Associate Dean Eric Rabkin from the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, described the efforts of his school to
review the Center for the Utilization of Learning Skills to understand whether that program was aiding in the minority student
retention process. He outlined several recommendations which
were designed to improve the effectiveness of the Center. The
major thrust of the Center will be to build on the academic
strengths of minority students rather than trying to make up
for deficiencies in their academic background. He further described the work of the College's minority task force to improve
other aspects of the educational program for students.
Professor Billy Joe Evans described the Renaissance High
Project. Basically, the program involves a highly selective effort
to identify talented students at Renaissance High School in
Detroit, associating them with individual faculty members working on a specific research project and developing in those
students an appreciation for and a capacity to undertake true
scholarly activity. Subsequent enrollment at the University is
only a happy by-product. The program is continuing and will
involve students in other schools.
Vice-President Johnson observed that it is his hope that there
can be developed a more cohesive and coordinated effort in
making support services available to minority students.




MARCH MEETING, 1982


241


Regent Dunn noted that the University has supported a wide
variety of programs to address the minority student problem.
He wondered whether anything further could be done. Mr.
Goodman reaffirmed the need to coordinate support services and
provide flexibility for individual units to undertake projects like
that of Professor Evans. Further, the University must provide
incentives for individual faculty members to undertake efforts
in this area.
Regent Varner asked if the data collected by Professor
Donald Deskins on the location of minority undergraduates by
discipline had been disseminated. Dr. Holmes explained that
the data is just now being disseminated.
Regent Varner wondered if we have any better an idea
about the reasons why minority students leave the University.
Mr. Goodman responded that academic, financial, personal and
family problems persist as major reasons for leaving.
Regent Roach commented that he too was disappointed with
the data aspects of the report, but did not believe that was due
to any lack of effort. He was encouraged by the new initiatives
reported which give some basis for hope that longer term results
would certainly be forthcoming.
Regent Roach also commented on his concern for the
University's overall attrition rates.
President Shapiro then introduced a discussion on the status Budget and
of the 1982-83 budget. He noted that circumstances were 8Tuiion for
presently so unsettled at the state level that it may not be
possible to indicate tuition levels for the coming year at the
April meeting.
The President then noted several University budget elements,
in addition to the General Fund, which were being impacted by
external circumstances. He cited the Hospital and Medical
Service Plans in particular. Medicare and Medicaid programs
could affect these adversely. Similarly, research budgets may be
negatively impacted by changes in federal government policies.
On the national economic scene two factors bear watching.
The private sector of the economy is poised for a rather significant recovery. The current level of interest rates, however, if
continued, could have a very significant depressing impact on
the level and duration of this private sector recovery. These
interest rates apparently are being driven by current federal
economic policy.
Michigan's economic recovery should be quite substantial
assuming the national recovery gets underway. This will likely
not help the State's fiscal problems in the current year. The
State deficit for this year will likely be in the $500 million range.




242


MARCH MEETING, 1982


This would mean a 10% reduction in all sectors of the State
budget. Some State programs cannot absorb such a reduction.
Higher Education's reduction could therefore increase well above
the 10%  level. For the University this could mean a revenue
loss of $13 million to $20 million dollars. The only hope of
meeting such a loss could be a tax increase.
Vice-President Frye then decribed the kind of budget requirements that are presently being considered. The range of
alternatives have ranged from a best case assumption of 14%
State appropriation increase to a worst case of 0% increase.
On the expenditure side, fixed increases amount to $11.3
million which includes utility cost hikes of $4.1 million, staff
benefit increases of $2.9 million, $500,000 in new space costs,
$1.6-1.7 million for interests costs for fourth quarter borrowings,
$1 million in deferred costs and prior year commitments of
$1.2 million.
In addition, we could lose $3 million in tuition revenue from
enrollment loses. The budget plans all incorporate expected staff
reductions that would make available $5 million for reallocation.
In the worst case example, a 14% increase in tuition would
be necessary just to cover fixed cost increases. In the best case
without a tuition increase only $6 million would be available
for salary and programmatic improvement. Salaries continue to
be a priority because we continue to lose ground both to the
State civil service as well as to academic peers and industrial
competition.
Other high priority needs, including financial aid, bring the
total need for next year to $35 million.
We will need to hold tuition increases as much as possible
especially if federal student aid programs are cut.
The budget, therefore, is very uncertain and will require
resolution of many potential problems which are beyond the
University's control.
State support for higher education has been in steady decline
for more than a decade. Unless recovery can occur, Michigan
stands to lose significant elements of its once proud system of
higher education.
President Shapiro explained that the Governor's original
plan to defer fourth quarter payments for higher education is
now not possible. Instead those fourth quarter payments would
now become actual cuts. Those will not be restored until a
budget for the new year is passed including a provision to
replace those cuts.




MARCH MEETING, 1982


243


Vice-President Brinkerhoff described the potential impacts
on other University budgets if current economic circumstances
do not improve. The Medical Service Plans have been subjected
to reimbursement screens which have not been increased for
five years. If no relief occurs and Medicare and Medicaid cuts
occur, several plans may simply become untenable.
The Hospital could also be severely impacted by the proposed reductions in Medicare, Medicaid and other third party
reimbursers. This could, in turn, create a fiscal situation which
would call into question the hospital's capacity to support the
debt service necessary to cover the hospital's share of the cost
of the Replacement Hospital Project.
The State's fiscal situation could also prevent the State
Building Authority's capacity to sell the $140 million in bonds
which is crucial to the Replacement Project.
Finally, federal research funding, which requires cost sharing
by the University, is going to see some reduction in absolute
terms as well as some potential arbitrary cuts in indirect cost
recovery rates. Federal student aid cuts could seriously impact
enrollments.
President Shapiro noted that the likelihood of all of these
adverse circumstances coming to passis quite remote but they
are presented so that the Regents are aware of the potential
problems ahead.
Regent Roach commented that much of our present difficulty is attributable to the sharp decline in State support. Even
if economic recovery occurs, we will still not fully recover in
higher education. Tuition increases alone cannot solve the
problem. We may have to rethink our whole financial aid
policy to insure that the University continues to be available
to more than just rich students. It will also take enormous
imagination and innovation to maintain the traditional level of
quality that has always characterized the University.
Regent Varner wondered at what level of tuition increase
would the University lose its ability to attract a cross section
of students. It was noted that there was no easy answer to that
question since it depended heavily on other factors such as the
availability of financial aid.
Regent Nederlander commented that students were going to
have to depend on more jobs in order to support the costs of
attending college.
The Regents then heard comments from the following in- Public Comments
dividuals on the topics indicated: Jean Ramsay, Associate Professor of Management, Western Michigan University, Judith
Elkin, Associate Director, Great Lakes Colleges, Jane Schultz,




244


MARCH MEETING, 1982 -

Assistant Dean, Medical School and Professor of Human
Genetics, Audrey Harris, Student, School of Social Work, and
Dawn Barnell, Student, College of Engineering speaking on
the Center for the Continuing Education of Women; Amy
Hartmann, Michigan Student Assembly, on hazing; Valerie
Mims and Michael Sudarkasa students, on the minority report;
Jon Feiger, Michigan Student Assembly, on Research Policies at
the University; and Carol Saryl Eller and Ann Baker, residents,
family housing, on child care at North Campus.
FRIDAY, MARCH 19, 1982
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Dunn, Nederlander, Roach, Varner, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and
Nelson and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Overberger,
Johnson, Acting Vice-President Jacobson and Vice-President
and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regents Brown and
Power were absent.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order.
Tappan Hall  Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated that Carl Johnson of
Addition Johnson, Johnson and Roy would discuss further with the
members of the Board the Tappan Hall addition and the overall
plans for the development of Ingalls Mall.
Mr. Johnson described the Tappan Hall addition which will
be erected between the President's House and the Museum of
Art. He noted that the facade would fit in architecturally as well
as aesthetically within the proposed space and would not detract
from the focal point on South University, which is the President's
House.
Ingalls Mall  Mr. Johnson then spoke on the development of Ingalls Mall
which will extend from the Graduate Library to the Rackham
Building. In his view, this area would become one of the most
important places on campus, and it was his plan to treat it with
dignity and simplicity.
Mr. Frederick Mayer, University Planner, described the
dvelopment of the area between the Alumni Center and the
Michigan League. He cited visibility, vehicular arrival, pedestrian
circulation, and development of an attractive landscape forecourt for the two buildings as the major concerns which were
taken into consideration.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of February 18 and 19, 1982
were incomplete, therefore, were held over until the March
meeting.




MARCH MEETING, 1982


245


II. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on investment transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnellabor relations, and the Replacement Hospital Project. He also
filed a semi-annual report of auxiliary activities fund, expendable
restricted fund, and designated fund activities.
Acting Vice-President Jacobson filed his monthly report on
the Office of University Relations and Development.
II. GIFTS AND        GRANTS                                           Gifts
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from the following
sources. They were received with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions:
Allied-Kelite Products Division, Richardson Company, New
Hudson; for the Allied-Kelite Division-Donahue fund $ 10,000.00
Amax Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for the following funds:
Amax  Foundation-Schwank  fund......................................  5,000.00
Amax Foundation-Metallurgical fund..............................  5,500.00
F. S. Turneaure Fund in Geology fund.....................  100.00
University  Musical Society  Gifts fund..............................  100.00
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for
the  American  Cancer  Society  funds................................  36,591.00
Mr. and Mrs. Ned S. Arbury, Midland; for the School of Business Administration Capital Campaign-Computing Center
fund............................................................   25, 00.00
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn; for the
Michigan Chapter Arthritis Foundation funds................  9,008.18
Atlantic Richfield Foundation, Los Angeles, California; for
the following funds:
ARCO Faculty Support in Materials and Metallurgical
E ngineering   fund.......................................................  25,000.00
ARCO Fellowship in Materials and Metallurgical Engin eering   fu n d..............................................................  25,000.00
Law School Capital Campaign-Student Aid fund............  300.00
Arthur P. Bartholomew, Jr., Ocean Ridge, Florida; for the
following funds:
A thletic   Scholarships  fund...............................................  100.00
School of Business Administration Capital CampaignUndesignated fund..                               1,000.00
Ernst & Whinney Professorship in Accounting fund........  4,156.25
Kevin M. Beattie, London, Ontario; for the Paul G. Kauper
Professorship   fund.............................................................  5,000.00
Bell Laboratories Education Center, Holmdel, New Jersey;
for the following funds:
Bell Telephone Laboratories-Mechanical Engineering
fu n d..............................................................................  3 5,7 7 4.0 0
Computer Information and Control Engineering Program
fund..........;..                         175,703.00
fu n d............................................................................  17 5,7 0 3.0 0
Industrial  Engineering  Gift  fund.....................................  42,315.00
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; for the
Allan F. Smith Professorship of Law fund............  5,000.00




246                   MARCH MEETING, 1982
Betz Foundry, Inc., Grand Rapids; for the following funds:
Athletic Scholarships fund................................................  5,000.00
Materials and Metallurgical Engineering Special fund....         1,000.00
Bixby Foundation, Detroit; for the following funds:
Alumni Center fund................................................  1,000.00
Athletic Scholarships fund................................................  1,000.00
School of Business Administration Capital CampaignUndesignated fund......................................................  5,000.00
Margaret M. Boutell Trust, Flint; for the H. Marvin Pollard
Medical Research Institute fund........................................  20,000.00
Buhr Foundation, Ann Arbor; for the following funds:
Alumni Center fund................................................  2,500.00
School of Business Administration Capital Campaign
fund..............................................................................   4,000.00
Nuclear Medicine Research fund......................................  2,000.00
University Musical Society Gifts fund..............................  1,000.00
Minnie Mae Burleigh Estate; for the Minnie Mae Burleigh
Cancer Research fund........................................................  12,385.80
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea; for the following funds:
Nuclear Medicine Research fund......................................  3,000.00
Plastic Surgery Research fund..........................................  5,000.00
Thomas O'Donnell Connolly, Oakland, California; for the
Thomas Connolly Research fund......................................  6,000.00
Cummins Engine Company, Inc., Columbus, Indiana; for the
Jack E. Charipar Fellowship in Mechanical Engineering
fund......................................................................................   10,000.00
DeRoy Testamentary Foundation, Detroit; for the following
funds:
Athletic  Scholarships  fund.................................................  1,000.00
Helen L. DeRoy Law       Fellowship fund............................  20,000.00
Mrs. Winifred S. Dibert, Jamestown, New York; for the following funds:
Business School fund..........................................................  1,000.00
Clare E. Griffin Scholarship in Marketing and Business
E conom  ics   fund..........................................................   1,000.00
William   A. Paton Accounting Scholarships fund............       1,000.00
D.  M aynard  Phelps  fund....................................................  1,000.00
Robert G. Rodkey Fellowship and Scholarship fund........         1,000.00
Dow Chemical Company, Indianapolis, Indiana; for the
Psychopharmacology Research fund..................................  16,500.00
Herbert H. and Grace A. Dow Foundation, Midland; for the
following funds:
Engineering Building Gifts fund........................................ 500,000.00
President Gerald R. Ford Library fund.......................... 200,000.00
Law School-Law      Library Building fund.......................... 450,000.00
John R. Edman, Bloomfield Hills; for the School of Business
Administration Capital Campaign-Pending Designation
fund...........................................................................   5,000.00
Dr. and Mrs. Stanford C. Ericksen, Gainsville, Florida; for
the Center for Research on Learning and Teaching Endowment    fund.................................................................  5,000.00
Ervin Industries, Inc., Ann Arbor; for the following funds:
Business Administration Loan fund..................................  4,000.00
Materials and Metallurgical Engineering fund................     4,000.00
Exxon Corporation, New York, New York; for the Center for
Arabic Study Abroad fund................................................  10,000.00
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York; for the
following funds:
Business  School  fund....................................................  600.00




MARCH MEETING, 1982                                247
College  of  Engineering   fund............................................  975.00
Exxon Education Foundation-Goodman fund................      19,000.00
Geology-Mineralogy fund...............................................  3,000.00
Frank B. Fehsenfeld, Grand Rapids; for the following funds:
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund............  2,500.00
Unrestricted fund...........................................................  6,000.00
C. Richard Ford, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; for the following funds:
Alumni Center fund................................................  2,000.00
Oklahoma City Scholarship fund......................................  8,000.00
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn; for the Business
School Associates Program     fund.....................................  5,000.00
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn; for the following funds:
Business Administration Policy and Control Faculty
Special  fund............................................................   5,000.00
Electrical and Computer Engineering Special fund........      5,000.00
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Freehling, Chicago, Illinois; for the
William  Wilhartz Professorship fund.............................. 100,000.00
Samuel P. Gaglio, Springfield, Virginia; for the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts fund...........................  5,000.00
Mrs. Hazle P. Geniesse, Grand Blanc; for the Eugene W.
Geniesse, Sr. Science Scholarship fund..............................  25,000.00
Marie Ruth George Estate; for the William Hanby George
and Libbie Beck George Scholarship fund...................... 182,613.11
Harry C. Gibson, Kalispell, Montana; for the Eye Center
Ophthalmology Consolidation fund..................................  5,000.00
Elmer G. Gilbert, Ann Arbor; for the Aeronautical Engineering   Special  fund................................................................  5,000.00
Allan D. Gilmour, Dearborn; for the School of Business Administration Capital Campaign-Library fund..................  5,000.00
Robert I. Goldstine, Fort Wayne, Indiana; for the following
funds:
Robert I. Goldstine Endowment fund, I..........................  25,000.00
Robert I. Goldstine Endowment fund, II........................  25,000.00
Mrs. Bernice G. Gunther, Kentfield, California; for the Law
School Alumni    Scholarship  fund.....................................  5,000.00
Hoffman Foundation, Los Angeles, California; for the following funds:
Replacement Hospital Project Gifts fund........................  50,000.00
V ital   M argin   fund..............................................................  1,000.00
Arlene Boyce Howe, Chelsea; for the Replacement Hospital
P roject  G ifts   fund.............................................................  5,000.00
Howmet Turbine Components Corporation, Whitehall; for the
following funds:
Howmet Corporation Fellowship in Materials and Metallurgical  Engineering  fund.........................................  12,000.00
Howmet Corporation-Metallography Laboratory fund....         20,000.00
International Business Machines Corporation, Armonk, New
York; for the following funds:
Business    School   fund.........................................................  1,066.00
Electrical and Computer Engineering Special fund........        200.00
Philip A. Duey Scholarship fund......................................  300.00
College of Engineering fund............................................  270.00
Class of 1938 Engineers fund.....................................  100.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts fund............   560.00
Mechanical Engineering Special fund............................  260.00
Institute for the Study of Mental Retardation and Related  Disabilities  fund...............................................  1,000.00
V ital  M argin   fund..............................................................  1,420.00




248                 MARCH MEETING, 1982
International Business Machines Corporation, Tarrytown,
New York; for the following funds:
Business Administration-Computer Information Systems
Faculty  Special  fund.................................................  2,000.00
Business Administration-IBM    Information Systems fund     15,000.00
Mrs. Charles C. Jerden, Indianapolis, Indiana; for the President's fund................................................  8,400.00
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey; for the
Pharmacology Education/Research fund........................  35,000.00
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for the
following funds:
Max Kade German House-Cultural fund........................  3,500.00
Max Kade Foundation-C. M. Wieland fund....................  12,000.00
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek; for the Eye Center
Ophthalmology Consolidation fund.................................. 200,000.00
Elizabeth E. Kehnedy Fund, Ann Arbor; for the New Lecture
Hall-Biological Station fund........................................  5,000.00
Noboru Kikuchi, Ann Arbor; for the Mechanical Engineering
Special   fund...............................................................   5,000.00
Florence Kilworth Foundation, Tacoma, Washington; for the
Nuclear Medicine Research fund....................................  7,500.00
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh; for the Forney
W. Clem ent  M em orial  fund..............................................  7,570.69
Knights Templar Eye Foundation, Inc., Springfield, Illinois;
for the Retinal Service Research and Developmental fund     10,000.00
Joseph P. Kovitch, Waterford; for the David P. Kovitch
M em orial  fund...............................................................  5,000.00
Kroc Foundation, Santa Ynez, California; for the Kroc Foundation-A m inoff   fund..........................................................  10,945.00
Arthur D. Krom, Chicago, Illinois; for the Eita Krom Scholarship   in   Sociology   fund......................................................  6,600.00
Raymond E. Kurtz, Plymouth; for Athletic Scholarships fund        5,000.00
Dr. and Mrs. Paul R. Lichter; for the following funds:
Eye Center Ophthalmology Consolidation fund................  7,400.00
Friends of University Hospital Gift fund..........................  100.00
M useum    of  A rt  fund..........................................................   300.00
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for
the Henry Luce Foundation-Oksenberg fund.................. 35,000.00
Oscar A. Lundin, Bloomfield Hills; for the School of Business
Administration Capital Campaign-Undesignated Gifts
fu n d.....................................................................................   2 0,0 0 0.0 0
Dr. and Mrs. Oliver F. Manzini, Calumet; for the following
funds:
School  of  D entistry   fund.................................................  5,000.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts fund............  3,510.00
Marinette Marine Corporation, Marinette, Wisconsin; for the
Naval Architecture Campaign Gifts fund........................  5,000.00
Curtis W. McGraw Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey; for
the Arthur Webster Memorial fund................................  10,000.00
Agnes C. McKay Estate; for the Frank D. and Agnes C.
McKay Medical Research fund........................................  49,598.75
Frank D. McKay Estate; for the Frank D. and Agnes C.
McKay Medical Research fund.......................................  6,326.74
Keith S. McKenzie, Santa Cruz, California; for the Eye
Center Ophthalmology Consolidation fund......................  5,000.00
Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey; for the Hypertension  Research  fund......................................................  6,000.00
John C. Morley, Cleveland Heights, Ohio; for the following
funds:




MARCH MEETING, 1982


249


Business School fund...................................................   100.00
School of Business Administration Capital Campaign-Undesignated Gifts fund.............................................  5,000.00
Mosbacher Foundation, Inc., Houston, Texas; for the President Gerald R. Ford Library fund..................................  5,000.00
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United
States, Inc., Detroit; for the following funds:
Highway Safety Research Institute fund........................  145,375.00
Highway Safety Research Institute-Mathematical Models
of Motor Vehicle Systems fund........................................  25,000.00
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland; for the following funds:
M icrobiology    fund.............................................................  35,000.00
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation Cancer Research fund........          19,518.00
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation Post Doctoral Cancer Research    fund...............................................................  32,704.00
Anna Paulina Foundation, Flint; for the following funds:
Business    School  fund........................................................  5,000.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts fund..........      5,000.00
Pickands Mather and Company, Cleveland, Ohio; for the
Naval Architecture Campaign Gifts fund........................  15,000.00
John H. Pickering, Washington, D.C.; for the Allan F. Smith
Professorship    of  Law   fund..............................................  5,000.00
Dr. and Mrs. Manard E. Pont, Castro Valley, California; for
the following funds:
Minority Orientation and Education Assistance fund....             100.00
President's   fund..........................................................  8,000.00
Catharine M. Porter, Cincinnati, Ohio; for the following
funds:
A thletic  Scholarships  fund................................................  15,000.00
Hazel Marie Losh Fellowship in Astronomy fund..........         15,000.00
Doris D. Potter, King George, Virginia; for the Hazel Moggs
Edm  iston  Scholarship   fund................................................  10,000.00
Power Foundation, Ann Arbor; for the Turner Geriatric
P rogram    fu nd...................................................................   9,00 0.00
Mr. and Mrs. Millard H. Pryor, Ann Arbor; for the following
funds:
Olin W. Blackett-Charles J. Strosacker Fellowship for
Junior Faculty Research fund...............................  5,000.00
University Musical Society fund................................  100.00
W  U O M   fu n d......................................................................  9 5.0 0
Louise G. Raphael, Atlanta, Georgia; for the Alumni Center
fu n d....................................................................................   1 0,0 0 0.0 0
Research to Prevent Blindness, Inc., New York, New York;
for the Research to Prevent Blindness fund....................  13,500.00
Andrea and John Rich, Beverly Hills, California; for the
following funds:
Garnet R. Garrison Scholarship fund..............................  1,000.00
G ifts  Pending  Designation  fund......................................  10,000.00
Robert F. Ruthruff Trust, Ann Arbor; for the following
funds:
Chemistry Departmental Special fund..............................  6,000.00
School  of  D entistry   fund................................................  1,000.00
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York; for the
following Alfred P. Sloan Foundation funds:
Gramlich fund...................................................... 100,000.00
O lson   fund..........................................................................  50,000.00
R osenburg    fund..................................................................   9,000.00
Dr. and Mrs. Charles L. Smith, Perrysburg, Ohio; for the Eye
Center Ophthalmology Consolidation fund......................    6,500.00




250                    MARCH MEETING, 1982
Mr. and     Mrs. George W. Sperling, Jr., Los Angeles, California; for the George E., Jr. and Elizabeth S. Sperling
Law     fund..........................................................................  10,000.00
Standard Oil Company of Ohio, Cleveland, Ohio; for the
following funds:
Business   School   fund.........................................................  350.00
College of Engineering fund.............................................  400.00
Class of 1938 Engineers fund..........................................  100.00
Law   School fund...............................................................  200.00
Standard Oil of California Fellowship fund....................        5,000.00
V ital  M argin   fund.............................................................  50.00
Lawrence J. Stock, Ann Arbor; for the Nuclear Engineering
Special     fund......................................................................  10,000.00
Stryker Corporation, Kalamazoo; for the Homer H. Stryker
Orthopaedic Lecture fund................................................  5,000.00
Thomas E. Sunderland, Paradise Valley, Arizona; for the
Allan F. Smith Professorship of Law           fund....................  5,000.00
Tinker Foundation, New York, New York; for the Tinker
Foundation      ISR   fund........................................................  25,000.00
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Ann Arbor;
for the following funds:
Engineering Building Gifts fund...................................... 295,000.00
President Gerald R. Ford Library fund.......................... 100,000.00
United Airlines, Chicago, Illinois; for the Physical Stress Research fund................................................         10,000.00
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut; for
the following funds:
Asian Art Projects-Spink fund..........................................  4,800.00
Athletic Scholarships fund................................................   670.00
W  U O M     fund..................................................................   50.00
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo; for the following funds:
Business School Associates Program         fund........................  5,000.00
College of Engineering fund............................................  150.00
Immunopathology Research Fellowship and Training
fund........................................................................   1,100.00
Upjohn Company-Friedman fund....................................  4,500.00
Helen Bates VanTyne Estate; for the Clara Belfield and
Henry Moore Bates Law           Fellowship fund.................... 228,660.97
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey; for
the following funds:
School of Art fund................................................     350.00
Dearborn Alumni Annual fund........................................       50.00
College of Engineering fund............................................  15.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts fund.........                50.00
Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis             Distinguished      Visitors
Suite fund..............................................................  12,000.00
W  U O M     fund......................................................................   50.00
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey; for
the Warner-Lambert Lectureship fund..........................       20,000.00
Roberta C. Watts Estate; for the Gaylord A. and Roberta C.
Watts Architectural Award fund...................................... 259,000.00
Claude W. West Estate; for the Claude W. West fund............            50,000.00
Rosina M. Wolfson Estate; for the Marguerite Wolfson Law
School fund....................................................................  14,000.00
Arthur Young Foundation, New York, New York; for the
following funds:
Athletic Scholarships fund................................................  100.00
Business School fund..........................................................   510.00
Clements Library Associates fund......................................    25.00




MARCH MEETING, 1982


251


Industrial Engineering Gifts fund....................................  50.00
Law    School  fund...............................................................  100.00
Literature, Science, and the Arts fund..............................  50.00
School  of  M usic  fund.......................................................  10.00
Paton Center for Accounting fund....................................  950.00
William  A. Paton Accounting Scholarship fund...........        550.00
Scholarships, Fellowships, and Student Aid fund............   1,000.00
Allan F. Smith Professorship of Law fund....................  2,200.00
Bob  Ufer  M em orial  fund.................................................  100.00
Unrestricted fund................................................  315.00
V ital  M argin   fund.............................................................  100.00
The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
Mr. and Mrs. J. Reid Anderson, Los Altos Hills, California.
Verbatim Corporation, restricted common stock; for the
Pauline V. & J. Reid Anderson Unitrust fund................  96,718.75
Anonymous Donor. J. Ray McDermott & Company, Inc.,
Series B. cumulative preferred stock; for the Tappan Hall
Library    fund......................................................................   20,789.38
Anonymous Donor. Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing
Company, common stock; divided as follows:
School of Business Administration Capital CampaignUndesignated Gifts fund..........................................  54,000.00
Center for Fitness and Sports Research-Gift Support
fu n d..............................................................................  1 6,2 0 0.0 0
Industrial Development Division, Institute of Science and
T echnology    fund........................................................  10,800.00
Management Succession Study fund................................ 27,000.00
Mrs. Hugh C. Armstrong, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Pittsburgh National Corporation, and National Gypsum Company, common stocks; for the Mary G. Armstrong fund           18,465.25
Albert Bradley, Greenwich, Connecticut. General Motors Corporation, common stock; for the School of Business Administration Capital Campaign-Undesignated Gifts fund         75,250.00
Paul S. Brentlinger, Melbourne, Florida. Winters National
Corporation, common stock; divided as follows:
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, includes
cash   gift  of   $149.38..................................................  1,441.88
William A. Paton Accounting Scholarship, includes cash
gift of $448.12................................................  4,325.62
Donald R. Brown, Ann Arbor. Automatic Data Processing,
common stock; for Athletic Scholarships fund................  10,325.00
Donald L. Castle, West Bloomfield. Dayton-Hudson Corporation, common stock; for the School of Nursing fund....        5,450.00
Ralph G. Conger, Detroit. Braun Engineering, Cooper Industries and Oglebay Norton Company, common stocks;
divided as follows:
Julia Henning Conger Memorial fund............................  5,150.38
Ralph G. Conger Scholarship fund..................................  5,150.37
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Freehling, Chicago, Illinois. Donaldson, Lufkin, and Jenrette, Inc., common stock; for the
William  Wilhartz Professorship fund.............................. 69,375.00
Andrew M. Gleason, Cambridge, Massachusetts. Drexler
Technology, common stock; for the Allan Gleason Fellow sh ip   fund......................................................................  20,925.00
Beulah W. Hildebrand Estate. American Telephone and
Telegraph Company, Pacific Gas and Electric Company
and Standard Oil Company of California, common
stocks; for the Beulah W. Hildebrand-LS&A fund........ 20,548.29




252                 MARCH MEETING, 1982
Robert A. Johnston, Cincinnati, Ohio. American Financial
Corporation, Series H, preferred stock; for the Law
School fund................................................  5,018.00
Lilliam A. Kemler, Dearborn. Occidental Petroleum Corporation and Security Bancorp, common stocks; for the
A lum ni  Center  fund..........................................................  20,437.50
Kevex Corporation, Foster City, California. Kevex Corporation, common stock; for the Mechanical Engineering
Special  fund........................................................................  13,250.00
Louise Tuthill Kingsbury, Big Rapids. Commercial Shearing
and Standard Oil Company of Ohio, common stocks;
divided as follows:
Louise Tuthill Kingsbury fund..........................................  5,356.50
Benjamin S. Tuthill Scholarship fund..............................  21,426.00
Mr. and Mrs. Donald H. Malloure, Birmingham. Parker
Drilling Company, common stock; divided as follows:
Athletic Scholarships fund................................................  1,500.00
Business  School  fund........................................................  2,000.00
College of Engineering fund..............................................  4,900.00
Mr. and Mrs. Graham R. Putnam, Chicago, Illinois.
Guardian Industries Corporation, common stock; for the
Business  School  fund..........................................................  10,828.13
Arthur C. Richards, Jr., Bloomfield Hills. AAR Corporation,
common stock; divided as follows:
Athletic Scholarships fund........................................   4,503.12
College of Engineering fund..............................................  4,503.13
Frank H. Roberts, San Francisco, California. Standard Oil
Company of California, common stock; for the Allan
F. Smith Professorship of Law fund................................  9,789.38
Mr. and Mrs. F. Roland Sargent, Saginaw. Standard Oil
Company of California, common stock; for the Plastic
Surgery  Research  fund........................................................  8,637.50
Mr. and Mrs. William L. Searle, Lake Forest, Illinois. G. D.
Searle and Company, common stock; divided as follows:
College of Pharmacy fund.................................................   15,719.00
President's   fund..................................................................  15,7 19.00
Victor Lyle Streeter, Ann Arbor. Burlington Industries, Inc.,
and Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., common stocks; for
the Hydraulic Research Laboratory fund........................  5,700.00
D. Robert Thomas, Winnetka, Illinois. Baxter Travenol
Laboratories, Inc., and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette,
Inc., common stocks; for the President's fund.................. 5,921.76
Hans W. Vahlteich, Fort Lee, New Jersey. International Business Machines Corporation, common stock; divided as
follows:
College  of  Pharm acy  fund................................................  5,643.75
Hans W. Vahlteich Research Fund in Microbiology fund          5,643.75
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas G. Van Gessel, Stamford, Connecticut.
Warner Communications, Inc., common stock; for the
V ital  M argin   fund.............................................................   9,285.94
Helen Bates Van Tyne Estate. General Motors Corporation
and International Business Machines Corporation, common stocks; for the Clara Belfield and Henry Moore
Bates  Law   Fellowship  fund........................................  14,283.85
Mr. and Mrs. Ame Vennema, Houston, Texas. Schlumberger,
Limited, common stock; for the Ame and Catherine
Vennema Professorship fund........................................  47,387.50




MARCH MEETING, 1982


253


Charles W. Walton, Jr., Sugar Loaf Shores, Florida.Unimed,
Inc., common stock; for the Chemistry Department
Special   fund........................................................................   6,062.50
The following nonmonetary, noncash gifts were received:
John Friedl, Rockville, Maryland. Volumes of the American
Anthropologist, American Ethnologist, Man, Current
Anthropologist, and miscellaneous ethnology; for the
Misha Titiev Library
Ann H. Gregory, Ann Arbor. Four John Held, Jr., watercolors: "Palms California," "Magnolia Blossoms," "Yellow Gladiolas" and "Gardenias;" for Inglis House


IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the
Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on Dates Indicated
Michael W. Blumenthal, Ph.D., appointed Helen L. DeRoy Visiting
Professor in Honors, 1982-83 academic year
Martin L. Norton, M.D., J.D., appointed Professor of Anesthesiology,
without tenure, March 1, 1982
Jerome Bert Wiesner, Ph.D., appointed Visiting Walgreen Professor in
Human Understanding, without tenure, from March 15 to April 3,
1982
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective July 1, 1982 unless otherwise indicated
R. Eugene Bossart, Professor of Music, appointed the Earl V. Moore
Professor of Music, September 1, 1982
Roy E. Cowen, Professor of German, with tenure, reappointed Chairman
of the Department of Germanic Languages, July 1, 1982 for a threeyear term
Donald R. Deskins, Jr., appointed Professor of Urban Geography and
Sociology, with tenure in the Department of Sociology. (Also
holds the title Associate Dean, Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies)
L. A. Peter Gosling, appointed Professor of Southeast Asian Studies in
the Department of Anthropology, with tenure
John F. Kolars, appointed Professor of Near Eastern Studies and
Geography, with tenure
Ann E. Larimore, appointed Professor of Geography in the Residential
College, with tenure
Neil O. Leighton, Associate Professor of Political Science, appointed
Chairperson of the Department of Political Science, UM-Flint,
February 1, 1982 to June 30, 1983
Rhodes Murphey, appointed Professor of History in the Department of
History, with tenure
John D. Nysteun, appointed Professor of Urban Geography and Planning
in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning, with tenure
Samuel I. Outcalt, appointed Professor of physical Geography in the
Department of Geological Sciences, with tenure


Personnel Actions
Appointments
Promotions, etc.




254


MARCH MEETING, 1982


Appomittee     The following committee appointments were approved:
Appointments
Honorary Degree Committee
Ms. Sharon Liebetreu, for a one-year term, September 1, 1981, through
August 31, 1982, student representative for Ann Arbor Campus
Military Officer Education Program Committee
Eric Edward Haas, for a one-year term, April 1, 1982 through April 30,
1983, student representative
Recreation, Intramurals, and Club Sports, Advisory Committee on
David Guttchen, for a two-year term, August 1, 1981 through July 31,
1983, vice Paul Simon, term expired
John P. Witri, for a two-year term, August 1, 1981 through July 31, 1983,
vice Eric Federspill, term expired
Personnel Reports V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
Appointments      NEW..APPOINTMENTS.. TO. INSTRUCTIONAL. STAFF
Effective January 1, 1982, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Frederic M. Wolf, Ph.D., Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions,
Medical School, March 1, 1982
Instructor
Martha M. Funnell, M.S., Nursing
Lecturer
Martin L. Norton, M.D., J.D., Anesthesiology, February 1, 1982
Adjunct Professor
William F. Powers, Ph.D., Aerospace Engineering
Adjunct Associate Professor
Talmage G. Hiebert, Ph.D., M.D., Industrial and Operations Engineering
Rodney F. Moag, Ph.D., Linguistics, February 1, 1982
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Barbara Colwell, M.P.H., Nursing, January 6, 1982
Adjunct Instructor
Christine Green, M.P.H., Nursing
Ann P. Conway-Harkins, B.S.N., R.N., Nursing
Linda D. Knecht, M.S.N., Nursing, UM-Flint
Adjunct Lecturer
Carol E. Anderson, Music, UM-Flint
Bonislaw J. Bajon, Ph.D., Anthropology, UM-Dearborn
Gale D. Martin, B.S., Geology, UM-Dearborn
Lauren M. Peterson, Ph.D., Electrical and Computer Engineering
Clinical Professor
Lawrence Kuhns, M.D., Radiology, March 1, 1982




MARCH MEETING, 1982


255


Clinical Assistant Professor
George F. Ascherl, Jr., M.D., Radiology, March 1, 1982
Gregory A. Miller, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
Clinical Instructor
Michael Eichenhorn, M.D., Internal Medicine
Lisa Ginsberg-Evans, B.S., Pharmacy, February 1, 1982
Peter J. Kingston, D.D.S., Dentistry, January 22, 1982
Mary A. Mangelson, M.D., Internal Medicine
George T. McCarthy, D.D.S., Dentistry, January 28, 1982
Barbara N. Nesbitt, D.D.S., Dentistry, January 22, 1982
Maria Sawdyk, M.D., Internal Medicine
Laura J. Solomon, B.S., Pharmacy, February 1, 1982
Karen Ytterberg, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, January 2,
1982
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF
INTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Kenneth P. Carpenter, from Instructor to Assistant Professor, Dentistry,
September 1, 1981
Daniel C. Fisher, Asistant Professor of Geological Sciences and Assistant
Curator in the Museum of Paleontology, also appointed Assistant
Professor of Biological Sciences, February 10, 1982
Jerry W. Froelich, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, also appointed Assistant Professor of Radiology, March 1, 1982
Oded Gur-Arie, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Marketing,
January 1, 1982
Walter P. Lang, Assistant Professor of Dentistry, also appointed Assistant Professor of Community Health Programs, October 14, 1981
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS
Effective on dates indicated
Professor
William F. Powers, Aerospace Engineering, December 31, 1981
Assistant Professor
George E. Mills, Education, October 31, 1981, retired
C. Jan Swearingen, Humanities, Engineering, December 31, 1981
Instructor
Stuart J. Fealk, Anesthesiology, February 28, 1982
Mary P. Grattan, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, December 31,
1981
Said M. Hashemi, Anesthesiology, February 19, 1982
Prasad R. Kilaru, Anesthesiology, February 28, 1982
Clinical Professor
John Rebuck, Pathology, June 30, 1981, retired
Clinical Assistant Professor
Charles Gehrke, Internal Medicine, November 30, 1981


Promotions, etc.
Resignations




256


MARCH MEETING, 1982


Leaves of    Two leaves of absence without salary, four sabbatical leaves,
two extended sick leaves, and one retirement furlough were
reported to the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Vice-President Kennedy reported the retirement of one
faculty member. The following memoir was adopted.
F. H. Wagman     DR. FREDERICK H. WAGMAN, Professor of Library Science, is
Retirement retiring on March 31, 1982 after a distinguished career at The University
of Michigan.
Born in Springfield, Massachusetts, Professor Wagman attended
Amherst College, receiving his A.B. degree in 1933. He then went to
Columbia University to continue his study of German literature, earning
the master's degree in 1934 and the Ph.D. degree in 1942. During his
doctoral studies he taught at Amherst and at the University of Minnesota;
from his completion of the degree until the end of World War II, he was
employed in the U.S. Office of Censorship.
His library career began in 1945, when he went to the Library of
Congress as Acting Director of Personnel and of Administrative Services;
he served subsequently as Assistant Director of the Reference Department,
Director of the Processing Department, Deputy Chief Assistant Librarian,
and Director of Administration. In 1953 he brought this substantial and
rounded experience to Michigan as Director of the University Library
and Professor of Library Science.
A life member of the American Library Association, Professor
Wagman has served that organization as president and as member of
Council, as well as in many other offices. A member of the Michigan
Library Association from the time of his arrival in the state and later
its president, he was honored as Michigan's "Librarian of the Year" in
1970. He was a pioneer in the development of the monumental National
Union Catalog of the Library of Congress; he was the first president of
the Midwest Region Library Network (MIDLNET); he was appointed
by President Johnson to serve as vice-chairman of the Commission on
Obscenity and Pornography; he has held numerous offices in the Association of Research Libraries; and he has long been a director of the
Council on Library Resources. In the world of librarianship he has been
creative, influential, and honored.
As Director of the University Library he was supportive of the
School, encouraging a cooperative and helpful relationship between
library science students and faculty and staff of the University Library.
During these years Professor Wagman was also an active member of the
School's faculty, serving on its commitees, providing valued counsel and
assistance, and regularly offering a seminar in university library administration which students received with enthusiasm and appreciation.
Following his retirement as Director of the Library, Professor
Wagman has taught a variety of courses with unusual effectiveness, earning the respect and affection of students and colleagues. Both as Director
of the University Library and as a member of the faculty of the School
of Library Science, Professor Wagman has been a mentor and support,
gladly sharing his experience and readily offering his wisdom. He has
been a superior teacher and an invaluable resource.
The Regents now salute this distinguished professor by naming him
Professor Emeritus of Library Science.
VII. DEATHS
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.




MARCH MEETING, 1982


257


VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Degree Lists
Regents approved the following amendments to the degree lists:  men
Education
Bachelor of Science, August 21, 1981
add:
Lori Jeanne Hyde
Law School
Juris Doctor, December 9, 1980
add:
Terry Paul Calhoun, B.A., Kent State University, M.A.
Barbara Ann Watkins, B.S., Michigan State University
Master of Laws (LL.M.), August 14, 1981
add:
Tadeo Flores Hilado, A.B., De La Salle University; LL.B., The
University of the Phillipines
Master of Comparative Law (M.C.L.), May 15, 1981
add:
Toru Morishige, Hogakushi, University of Tokyo
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, August 21, 1981
add:
Theresa Renee Riviera
Bachelor in General Studies, August 21, 1981
add:
Jennifer Toby Schuman
Bachelor of Arts, December 22, 1981
add:
Dan J. Adler with Distinction and Honors in Political Science
Steven Jay Bass
Frederick Alber Dinger
Mary Anthony Grizzard
Gordon Jay Shewach
correct to show:
Catherine Merker McCargar with distinction
Madeleine E. McCarney with distinction
Kathleen Louise McGuire with distinction
Bachelor of Science, December 22, 1981
add:
Constance Lee Hoppe
Mark Daniel Palma
Bachelor in General Studies, December 22, 1981
add:
Bernie Terry DeSander
John Henry Gill
Delbert Tyrone Jenkins
Mary Elizabeth Wood




258


MARCH MEETING, 1982


Bachelor of Arts, December 22, 1979
add:
J. Steven Billnitzer
School of Music
Master of Music, December 1981
delete:
Laura Ann Flotz, B.M.E., Central Michigan University
Horace H. Rackham-School of Graduate Studies
Master of Arts, December 1981
delete:
Asian Studies
Amelia Ann Ylda, B.A., Baylor University
Master of Science, December, 1981
Education
delete:
Valorie Antoinette Vaughn, A.B., Oberlin College
Education
Master of Arts, December 1981
add:
Diana Bradley Fox, B.S.Ed.
Master of Science, December 1981
add:
Robert Charles Gould, B.G.S.
Linguistics
Master of Arts, December 1981
add:
Noriko Nagai, A.B., Shimane University, Japan
Education
Master of Science, December 1981
add:
Ralph C. Curry, B.S., North Carolina Agricultural and Technical
State University
University of Michigan-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Bachelor of Arts, December 23, 1981
add:
Issa Raji Kakish
Correct to show:
Gordon Stephen Luchonok with distinction
Catherine M. Garcia-Lindstrom with distinction
Bachelor of General Studies, December 23, 1981
add:
Paul Gerard Crittenden




MARCH MEETING, 1982


259


School of Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Engineering, December 23, 1981
add:
William John Philip
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Bachelor of Arts, December 23, 1981
correct to show:
Deanna Brann with distinction
James Edward Neuerburg with distinction
Bachelor of Sciences, December 23, 1981
correct to show:
Carole Ann Florence
Mary Jane Kosinski with distinction
Division of Eduaction
Bachelor of Arts, December 23, 1981
correct to show:
Martha Anne Isiminger
School of Management
Bachelor of Business Administration, December 23, 1981
add:
Paul Robert Schimetz
Bachelor of Science in Administration, December 23, 1981
add:
Mark Steven Dunger
The Regents approved the recommendations of the Honorary Degree Committee to award an honorary degree at the May
1982 Commencement exercises.
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated that the twelve-month Investment
review of investment programs had been discussed at the  Report
February meeting. The responses to the questions posed by the
Regents were included in this agenda along with the recommendations.
With respect to the first recommendation-investment in
the Common Fund for Equities, Vice-President Brinkerhoff
remarked that the equities from this fund have outperformed the
University's portfolio in practically each of the last ten years.
Noting that there was some risk involved in this type of
investment, Regent Baker commented that the additional return
anticipated would compensate for this risk.
Regent Dunn moved authorization to invest a portion of the
University's endowment funds in the Common Fund for Equities,
not to exceed 5% of the common stock holdings of the portfolios; for the Consolidated Endowment up to $1,500,000,




260


MARCH MEETING, 1982


Master List of
Common Stocks,
additions to


Rackham Endowment up to $535,000, and Fund Functioning
as Endowment up to $1,335,000 based on December 31, 1981
market values. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Mr. Norman Herbert briefly discussed the recommended
additions to the University's Master List of Common Stocks, and
assured the Regents that none of the companies were doing
business in South Africa. In response to the question of the
National Bank of Detroit's common stock holdings, Mr. Herbert
said that the policy of the bank was that they may not hold in
total more than 10% of any company's outstanding shares.
Regent Nederlander moved to approve the following additions to the Master List of Common Stocks: Angelica Corporation: Barry Wright; Betz Laboratories; Bowne & Company;
Brown-Forman Distillers; Cessna Aircraft; Commerce Clearing
House; A. T. Cross Company; Cubic Corporation; Fort Howard
Paper; H. B. Fuller Company; Herman Miller; Lifemark Corporation; Mercantile Texas Corporation; NL Industries; Nordstrom, Inc.; Noxell Corporation; Overnite Transportation; Payless Cashways; Quanex Corporation; Rubbermaid, Inc.; Sanders
Associates; Southwest Airlines; Super Valu Stores; Texas Commerce Bancshares; Worthington Industries; and Zero Corporation. The University's purchase of stocks used by the National
Bank of Detroit in its Opportunity Fund would be limited to 5 %
at market value of the portfolio's common stock holdings.
Regent Baker seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The fee for the Options Writing Program, Mr. Herbert
indicated, would recognize the more intensive surveilance and
monitoring that would be required of the National Bank of
Detroit. To make the Regents more at ease with respect to the
South Africa investments issue, the University will review NBD's
list of securities subject to the options writing program to verify
that the issuing companies are in compliance with the Regents'
Resolution on South Africa. This would limit the opportunities
for incremental return, but it would still be a viable program.
Regent Baker moved to authorize (1) an options writing
program (Buy-Write Program, Internal Overwrite Program,
Protective Put Purchase Program) for the University endowment
portfolios (2) for the Buy-Write Program, up to 10% of the
market value of the endowment portfolios with the initial funding
not to exceed $2,500,000 for Consolidated, $750,000 for Rackham, and $2,250,000 for Fund Functioning as Endowment; (3)
NBD to enter into an option transaction without prior approval
of the authorized University officers; and (4) the Buy-Write
Program common stocks not to be limited to the University's
Master List of Common Stocks, subject to compliance, however,




MARCH MEETING, 1982


261


with the Regents' policy on South Africa. Regent Dunn seconded
the motion and it was adopted.
The Regents then discussed the real estate limited partnership program, specifically the Endowment and Foundation
Realty Partnership-JMB I, the recommended percentage of the
total investments at market value of the University's endowment
funds to be committed for this purpose, the lack of liquidity in
real estate investment, and the expected cash flow return from the
income generated by these projects.
Mr. Herbert indicated that the National Bank of Detroit
recommended the program. The University's General Counsel
considered the program a prudent investment, and would not be
subject to any unrelated business income tax.
Regent Dunn expressed the opinion that the 10% limit of
the total endowment funds was too high and suggested 5%
instead. He asked if this would cause any problems.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff stated that a 5 % limit would be
acceptable at this time. Adjustments to the percentage could
be considered annually.
Regent Dunn moved to authorize real estate investments
through partnerships or commingled funds up to a limit of 5%
of the total investments at market value of the University's
endowment funds, and authorization for the University to invest
$1,000,000 in the Endowment and Foundation Realty Partnership-JMB I with funding of $460,000 for Consolidated endowment fund, $140,000 for Rackham endowment fund, and
$400,000 for Fund Functioning as Endowment fund. Regent
Varner seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Mr. Herbert then reviewed the report on investments in Investments in
South Africa. He noted that the Investor Responsibility Research  South Africa
Center (IRRC) and Arthur D. Little, Inc., consulting firm, both
indicated that significant progress in the areas of desegregation
of facilities, equalization of employee benefits and pay for equal
work at American-owned businesses in South Africa has been
made.
There was discussion concerning those companies that did
not meet recently added basic requirements to the Sullivan Principles guidelines. Mr. Herbert said that in most of those instances companies failed to either pay a membership fee to the
National African Federated Chamber of Commerce or didn't
significantly improve activities over the past year due to constraints imposed by the limited size of their South African
operation.
Regent Varner commented that the University was failing to
meet its objectives of promoting political, economic and social




262


MARCH MEETING, 1982


rights in South Africa by continuing to invest in companies who
have not endorsed the Sullivan Principles. Owens-Corning, for
instance, does not have a management role in South Africa,
but does supply technology and production expertise. Therefore,
in Regent Vamer's view, by not endorsing the Sullivan Principles, the company was endorsing that racial regime. She
suggested that the University should discontinue investing in
any company who has not endorsed the Principles.
Regent Waters indicated that he understood Owens-Corning
had no employees in South Africa, but that should not prevent
them from supporting, in writing, the Sullivan Principles. He
suggested that another visit be made to the company to again
determine their position.
President Shapiro said Owens-Corning will be visited again
to ascertain their stand on this issue even though, in their view,
they do not have any influence in South Africa. A report will be
presented to the Regents in May.
The Regents received a semi-annual report of the University
Hospitals accounts receivable.
Regent Nederlander moved approval to proceed with the
parking systems annual maintenance program and the window
replacements at Observatory Lodge. Regent Dunn seconded the
motion and it was adopted.


Hospitals
Accounts
Receivable
Parking Systems
Maintenance
Program


Construction  Regent Dunn moved authorization to award a contract to the
Contract Awarded
West Loop Road low bidder, Ajax Paving Industries, Inc., Brighton, Michigan
for the construction of the West Loop Road. Regent Waters
seconded the motion and it was adopted with Regent Roach
abstaining from the discussion and the vote.
Renovation  Regent Nederlander moved authorization to award a contract to the low bidder, Walter L. Couse and Company of
Detroit, for the renovation of the top three floors of the 300 North
Ingalls Building. Regent Dunn seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
RHP, Bid   Regent Dunn moved to approve awarding a construction
ackage #7 contract to the low bidder, Jeffress-Dyer, Inc., Ann Arbor,
Michigan, for the general construction component of Bid Package #7, Thermal Storage Basin/CPH Play Area for the Replacement Hospita Project. Regent Waters seconded the motion
and it was adopted.
RHP, Bid   Regent Nederander moved approval to award a procurement
Package 10 contract to the low bidder, Madison Electric Co., Inc., Ann
Arbor, Michigan, for the supply of luminaries and poles for the
Replacement Hospital Project and related medical campus areas,
Bid Package #10. Regent Dunn seconded the motion and it
was adopted.




MARCH MEETING, 1982


263


Speaking of the status of the budget for the Flint campus, Budget Sus
Chancellor Nelson said that UM-Flint is in a strong defensive Flint
position. There will be, however, an additional 4% to 5%
unavoidable cost increase to accommodate utilities, fringe benefits and the opening of the new recreation building. Assuming
the appropriation for 1982-83 does not change, a tuition increase of 10% to 15% would take care of those costs.
Chancellor Nelson indicated that it was their expectation
that enrollments would continue to rise as they have over the
last few years because of program growth and low tuition costs.
Through prudent budget practices, a 5% general fund cash reserve has been accumulated for the problems ahead, and a 5%
flexibility fund is being planned in next year's budget.
Chancellor Jenkins commented that the Dearborn campus Budget Status,
1982-83, UMis facing a great number of unknowns. He indicated that they Dearborn
have almost completed another budget reduction of $500,000.
Automatic increases amounting to $775,000 and $150,000 in
discretionary but high priority items in addition to salary increase must be accommodated in this budget. With an increase in
tuition and a reduction in financial aid, predicting enrollment
will be very difficult. The Dearborn campus has been unable to
accept all applicants for lack of facilities and support services
for the students.
Regent Baker read the following Regents' Resolution:
The Regents wish to take this opportunity to extend their D. M. Mangus
grateful thanks and warm appreciation to Dorothy M. Mangus
as she concludes a thirty-nine year career of service to the
University.
For twenty-one of these years Miss Mangus has been
Secretary to the President. In that capacity, she has served and
guided four presidents of the University with unerring skill and
unselfish dedication. Her quiet charm and grace, her enormous
efficiency have been the marks of her entire tenure. The warm
smile and unending patience with which Miss Mangus greeted
each visitor irrespective of the visitors demeanor, was the hallmark of the President's Office which must be emulated.
The Regents now extend to Dorothy M. Mangus their highest
commendations and best wishes on the occasion of her retirement. In so doing they recognize with gratitude that she stands
as a true model for the profession which she has so ably
represented.
Miss Mangus thanked the Regents and said she was overwhelmed and most appreciative for the resolution and the
Regents good wishes.




264


MARCH MEETING, 1982


Real Property  Vice-President Brinkerhoff remarked that he would like the
Board, if willing, to act upon the property purchase item that was
deferred in February. He referred to the property owned by
Detroit Edison in the Fuller field area, and indicated that the
other potential arrangements to acquire the land were not
successful.
Regent Nederlander then moved to authorize the purchase
of the vacant parcel of land on Fuller Road, Ann Arbor, Michigan from The Detroit Edison Company at a price of $44,500.
Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was adopted.
All the above actions were by unanimous vote unless otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of February totaled $421.09.
The Regents adjourned to meet April 15 and 16, 1982.
RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary




MARCH MEETING, 1982                       265
INDEX
Appointments, 253, 254; committee, 254
Budget and Tuition for 1982-83, 241
Dearborn: budget status for 1982-83, 263
Degrees: lists amended, 257
Flint: budget status for 1982-83, 263
Gifts, 245
Hospitals: accounts receivable, 262; replacement hospital project bid
package #t7 and #10, 262; west loop road construction contract, 262
Ingalls Mall, 244
Investments: report, 259; additions to Master List of common stocks, 260;
in South Africa, 261
Leaves of absence, 256
Mangus, D. M., commended, 263
Minority Report, 239
Parking systems maintenance program, 262
Promotion, 253, 255
Public Comments, 243
Real Property, 263
Renovations, 262
Resignations, 255
Tappan Hall addition, 244
Tuition and budget for 1982-83, 241
Wagman, F. H., retirement, 256




APRIL MEETING, 1982
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 1982
The Regents met at 1: 00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Power, Roach, Varner, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and
Nelson and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Overberger,
Johnson, Acting Vice-President Jacobson, and Vice-President
and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regent Nederlander
was absent.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order and asked for Public Comments
and received approval to extend the public comments session esson exten
one-half hour, commencing at 3:30 p.m., because of the unsually high number of requests for participation.
Professor Ronald Teigen, Chairman of the Committee on  CESF Report
the Econimic Status of the Faculty (CESF), delivered the report by that committee and spoke of the deterioration of the
faculty salary program over the last several years at The University of Michigan. This has resulted in serious consequences
and implications for faculty morale, productivity, teaching effort,
and the future quality of the University. He said there is a widespread perception among the faculty that "merit" has become
"marketability"-if a person has an offer elsewhere, their value
is considered greater here. This strategy leaves little resources
left for the broad range of valuable, productive, and deserving
faculty to obtain a merit increase.
If quality is to be maintained, CESF believes that merit must
be rewarded. To solve this problem perhaps new sources of
funding could be developed, such as a more aggressive approach
to private sources, in order to support an adequate salary program on a continuing basis. Professor Teigen said that whether
the University becomes "smaller, but better" or just "smaller,"
depends upon the willingness and ability of the University to
maintain an appropriate balance between size and quality which
may require augmenting available levels of resources.
It is hoped that the internal review which is presently taking
place will result in a substantial shift of resources within the
University.
Professor Teigen indicated that next year's salary program
should be large enough to allow a small increase in real income.
267




268


APRIL MEETING, 1982


The faculty does not expect the entire salary deficiency to be
rectified in one year, or even in two or three years. It would be
encouraging, however, to see positive progress in this area.
President Shapiro spoke to the issue raised concerning University response to external offers. The central administration
does not suggest, recommend, or encourage any school or unit
to follow such a policy; it would be a disaster to do so. President Shapiro agreed with the key message of the CESF report,
namely, major steps must be taken over the next few years with
respect to the salary program in order to sustain the quality of
the faculty.
In response to Regent Roach's question concerning the
central administration's role in the salary policy, President
Shapiro indicated it was a very modest role. Other than approving special cases, it is the responsibility of the deans and the
chairmen to determine how general fund money is distributed.
Vice-President Frye elaborated further indicating that in
discussions with the deans, the administration emphasizes merit
rather than across-the-board increases. Marketability, as perceived by the faculty, has never been a part of the budget discussions. The mistaken perception most likely arose from: (1)
equity adjustments made in order just to retain faculty in certain fields where the external market outside of academia is
competing very heavily with the University, (2) a few cases
where some individuals did receive some adjustment in response
to an offer and these became widely known and therefore
generalized, and (3) inappropriate remarks about the importance of the market that were distorted in the press and were taken
as reflecting University policy.
President Shapiro indicated that the slippage in the salary
program has been significant over the last decade. The problem
is a very real one and should receive the full attention of the
administration in future years.
Health Service  Vice-President Johnson commented that last year the Regents
Fee approved a student fee of $47.00 per term to establish the Health
Service as a prepaid service. In turn, it was agreed to reduce
major overhead expenses, manpower, and system support for
the billing operation. He said he believes that has been accomplished, and in fact, has exceeded the amount to which they
agreed. Health Service has also realized substantial savings in
other areas of their operations as well.
He then introduced Dr. Caesar Briefer, Director of Health
Service, who showed slides supporting the above statements and
supporting the request for an additional $2.00 per student per
term for the 1982-83 budget.




APRIL MEETING, 1982


269


Dr. Briefer stated that utilization of health service has remained about the same as last year, which responded to the concern that the prepaid service would result in overuse of the
facility. Patient satisfaction has increased substantially. The
reorganization within the framework of the Health Service has
resulted in some financial savings. Since health costs have become very difficult to control, the relatively small budget increases for the last two years have been quite an accomplishment.
This has been done without sacrificing the quality or quantity of
the services offered.
Regent Roach mentioned the study that the Regents had
requested concerning excusing certain students from paying the
fee. Mr. Easthope said a committee has been meeting on this
issue and will have a report within th next few weeks.
Regent Roach commented that the committee recommendation might have a budgetary impact upon the Health Service. He
asked if there was an urgency to approve this budget at this
time, or could it be delayed until the final report is submitted.
President Shapiro recommended that if that was the only
reservation, the budget should be approved at this time. The
issue involved in excusing certain students from paying the fee
is very complex. The University has many areas where services
are not charged directly to the user, but to everybody. The
principle involved cannot be easily or quickly resolved.
There was further discussion concerning the issue of having
to pay for the coverage of two health care policies. It was
explained that there is a certain amount of overlap, but the
fundamental difference is between ambulatory care and inpatient
care.
Regent Power moved to authorize an increase in the prepaid
student fee of $2.00 per student per term for Health Service for
1982-83. The motion was seconded by Regent Dunn and
adopted.
Dr. Jeptha Dalston, Director of University Hospitals, introduced the next issue, the helicopter emergency medical service
program. He indicated that it was a program integral to the
mission of the Hospital and very important to its operation.
Mr. Edward Schwartz, Senior Associate Director, University Hospitals, commented that both the regional and state health
planning groups encouraged University Hospital administration
to become a more tertiary care facility to care for a greater percent of critically ill or injured patients. A number of programs
were studied including a growing enterprise in the country of
hospital based air transport via helicopter. The program would
be staffed by physicians and nurses to provide skilled care while


Helicopter
Emergency
Service Program




270


APRIL MEETING, 1982


transferring critically ill patients from outlying hospitals, or to
arrive at the scene of the trauma to begin first aid and accomplish transport at the same time. The program would also provide access to the specialized services available at University
Hospitals to more people in Michigan.
Mr. Schwartz discussed the cost of the program and the
estimated number of increased inpatient days. The discussion
continued with respect to the justification of this expenditure in
view of the severe problems the University is facing, the point
at which the program might reach the break-even stage, the timing of the program, and the opportunity the program would
provide for the Hospital to participate in training programs for
ambulance company employees in the more remote areas of the
State.
President Shapiro indicated that a program that would meet
the financial needs of the Hospital, provide primary and tertiary
care, put together a profile of the patients which satisfy all of
those criteria, and meet the needs of a very large medical school
is a very complicated process. There would be some risk, but
some new initiatives must be taken to be able to satisfy a
diversified patient profile.
Regent Roach was concerned about the loss of approximately $300,000 that would have to be absorbed somehow in the
first year. He asked if the project could be delayed a year. Mr.
Schwartz responded that there was a great advantage of having
the first opportunity to present the case for this service in the
Certificate of Need process. Regent Roach then asked if a
favorable response was received must the program be implemented immediately. Mr. Schwartz said the license would be
good for one year. He also indicated that the Hospital Board,
the Regents and the executive officers would be kept informed
and if the program proves to be wrong for the Hospital, a
recommendation to abandon the proposal would be made.
Regent Baker remarked that a positive factor would be the
increment to the overall budget by the increase in bed use.
Regent Power indicated that this program could be the
means of increasing the access of the citizens of the entire State
of Michigan to our first-rate tertiary care hospital. She hoped
the program would be developed carefully and documented fully
so that this program could become part of the special story of
University Hospital being communicated to the people of the
State, and which she viewed as an especially important kind of
new outreach during this period when many hospital services
are negatively impacted upon by the replacement hospital
construction.




APRIL MEETING, 1982


271;


Regent Dunn moved to approve the helicopter emergency
medical services program for implementation upon receipt of an
approved Certificate of Need. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted with Regent Roach voting no.
Dr. Dalston, Mr. Schwartz, and Mr. Midyette reviewed the
Hospitals operating budget for 1982-83. They indicated that
the budget was consistent with the mission of the Hospitals, the
Replacement Hospital Project Certificate of Need stipulations,
and the requirements in patient volume forecast. The percent
and dollar amount of rate increases has been pared down and
the proposed salary program is sensitive to the University as a
whole and at the same time will enable the Hospital to be competitive within the State to keep quality staff. The budget also
incorporates cuts relating to the predicted shortfall in medicaid
expenditures for next year.
The Regents discussed the proposed room rate increase.
President Shapiro said the data indicates that University Hospital room charges are higher than other hospitals in the area,
however, many of the charges included in the University Hospitals rate are put into ancillary service charges in other hospitals.
Regent Dunn moved approval of the proposed 1982-83
University of Michigan Hospitals operating budget, including a
daily service rate increase averaging $38.00, effective July 1,
1982. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The Regents then heard comments from the following individuals on the topics indicated: Greg Buzzard, graduate student, on mandatory support of Michigan Student Assembly;
Richard Rice, Daniel Schnee and Wendy O'Neil, students, on
the School of Natural Resources review; Tom Marx, student, on
the importance of School of Natural Resources from an LSA
student's perspective; Raphael Ezekiel, Associate Professor of
Psychology, on the reviews of the Schools of Art and Natural
Resources; Carolyn Matthews, member of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom, on the Department of
Defense research; Asim Varma, representing PIRGIM, on the
Nestle Boycott resolution; LeRoy Washington, University employee, on affirmative action; Paul Fleuranges and Michael
Sudarkasa, students, on the Black Student Union; Kathy Hartrick,
MSA, on hazing; Heather, student on the School of Art review,
Jon Feiger, student, on student needs in the redirection process;
Joel Epstein, student, on budget cuts and the redirection of the
University; Bret Eynon, student, on research policies at the
University; and Elizabeth Galst, student, on Military research.
The meeting was recessed.


Hospitals
Operating Budget
for 1982-83
Public Comments




272


APRIL MEETING, 1982


Additional
Public Comments
Session
Michigan Student
Assembly
Replacement
Hospital Project
Bid Package #8


FRIDAY, APRIL 16, 1982
The Regents reconvened at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Power, Roach, Varner, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and
Nelson and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Overberger,
Johnson, Acting Vice-President Jacobson and Vice-President
and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regent Nederlander
was absent.
President Shapiro reconvened the meeting and stated that
immediately following the meeting one-half hour would be devoted to a public comments session which had been requested
by the students the previous day. He then introduced Jonathan
Feiger, the outgoing president of Michigan Student Assembly.
Jonathan Feiger introduced the newly elected officers of
MSA: Amy Moore, President, James Flaum, Treasurer, and
Stephen Johnson, Vice President. The Treasurer spoke briefly
on the financial status of MSA. He indicated that the transition
had gone smoothly. He said that one of MSA's objectives this
year was to develop new procedures which might help to reduce
expenses.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the monthly executive
report on the Replacement Hospital Project, and noted with
concern the architect's delay in certain areas. He said that every
effort was being made to bring this phase back on schedule.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff then reviewed the bids for the
thirteen components of Bid Package #8 Building Enclosure. He
commented upon the narrow margin between the low bidder, a
Canadian firm, and the second low bidder, a Michigan firm, for
the precast concrete panels. The decision to recommend the
Canadian firm was based upon the University's policy to accept
the lowest bid provided all specifications were met. He noted
that there was some concern about whether the Michigan firm's
bid would meet all the specifications, but this question was not
fully evaluated as the Michigan firm was not the low bidder.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff stated that approximately 40% of
the bid cost, however, would be expended by Michigan labor.
Regent Baker asked if there was a legal obligation for the
University to award a contract to the low bidder. He felt that
the State of Michigan should be afforded every possible opportunity to bolster its weakened economy. Surely there were other
Michigan companies that could meet specifications.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff responded that the University
did not specify when the bids were let that the materials should
be provided by an in-country or in-state firm. Assuming speci



APRIL MEETING, 1982


273


fications were met, there was an obligation to accept low bids,
unless the Regents wished to change that policy.
Although the Regents, in a legal sense, are not necessarily
bound by state policy because of their constitutional autonomy,
President Shapiro indicated that it was state policy to accept low
bids. The state is funding the project at a signficant level; therefore, it is to their advantage that the low-bid policy be followed.
Aside from that, the President indicated that he believed it was
extremely important for the success of the entire project to
maintain the integrity of the bidding process and the bidding
environment. The University has an obligation to the consumers
of health care in Michigan to build this facility at the lowest
possible cost consistent with the performance that the Hospital
must achieve. It is a serious and very difficult problem, but
the administration felt that these two issues, low cost and the
integrity of the bidding process, would best serve the long-run
interests of the University.
President Shapiro also mentiond that since Michigan is a
major export state, it would be self-defeating if the state bidding
policy was not open to national and international companies.
Regent Roach agreed that it was very important to preserve
the integrity of the bidding process. These firms have spent a
considerable amount of time and money preparing their bids. It
would be poor policy to disqualify them at this stage because
they were out-of-state. If there is to be any deviation from this
practice, it should be stated in advance.
Regent Power inquired about the two recommendations for
the window components of the bid package. One was awarded
to an out-of-state company. Vice-President Brinkerhoff explained
that the Wisconsin company specialized in curved glass which
was to be used on the corridor wall on the ground level. All
other windows would be provided by Michigan companies.
Regent Brown expressed concern about the second low bid of
the Gerace Construction Company. If the bid was unacceptable in
that it did not meet specifications, why was it presented to the
Board? If the Michigan company did, indeed, qualify then he felt
that because of the marginal difference between the two bids, the
matter should be pursued further.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff responded that since the Michigan firm was not the low bidder and because of the shortness
of the time in which an evaluation had to be made, the technical
point was not pursued. Had the Michigan firm been the low bidder there would have been a more detailed evaluation. VicePresident Brinkerhoff said he understood the point, however, and
would be careful to omit these bids in the future.




274


APRIL MEETING, 1982


Regent Roach moved to award the thirteen construction
contracts, as recommended. Regent Power seconded the motion.
The motion failed with Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn, Varner,
and Waters voting no.
President Shapiro asked if there were any concerns other
than the bid package for the precast cement panels. If not, perhaps the Board would be willing to vote on each component
separately and then return to the panel component for further
discussion.
Regent Dunn indicated that the roofing recommendation
troubled him. The difference between the low bid, by an out-ofstate firm, and the second low bid, by an in-state firm, was considerable. He wondered why the bids of the Michigan firms were
so much higher.
President Shapiro stated that he would take each component
separately. He said that in his judgment, if the low bidder was
not approved the University would lose a sense of discipline on
this project that would be very costly. It would be much more
difficult for the executive officers to manage the project and to
bring it in under budgt, which is their major concern.
In response to Regent Baker's question concerning the
scheduling of the work, Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated
that all of these components are very tightly integrated in order
to maximize the use of the expensive equipment and to provide
the most economical method of construction.
President Shapiro commented that the Regents had made a
very difficult decision with respect to the steel contract. To the
executive officers, this was a strong indication that the Regents
wished to adhere to the low-bid policy. It would be very difficult
to change that policy with respect to these bids. If it is the desire
of the Regents to change that policy for all subsequent bids, the
administration would comply. President Shapiro reiterated the
seriousness of the matter and expressed the hope that the
Regents would not change their policy in the context of the
action item currently on the agenda.
Regent Baker then asked to recess for five minutes for
consultation with his colleagues.
President Shapiro reconvened the meeting. In view of what
he believed to be an extremely important policy issue which will
impact greatly on the long-run interests of the University, the
State, and the taxpayers, President Shapiro said he would like
to take the unusual position of requesting the Board to reflect
upon the previous motion and vote for reconsideration. The
University was granted permission to proceed with the Replacement Hospital only after the administration agreed to deliver a




APRIL MEETING, 1982


275


health care facility for as low a cost as possible. Although the
cement panels would be precast in Canada, almost one-half of
the cost would be used for Michigan labor. President Shapiro
reiterated his belief that it would not be appropriate to deviate
from the policy at this time. He then asked if the Board wished
to vote for reconsideration of the motion. If so, a motion from
a dissenting member would be required.
Regent Waters moved to reconsider the previous motion
with the understanding that the administration would propose
a modification to the bidding policy which would consider
preference for Michigan firms to be presented to the Regents
for their review. Regent Varner seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Regent Baker observed that he respected the President's
judgment concerning the difficult position in which the administration would be placed. There was also the matter of probable
litigation against the University if the low bid was not accepted.
The administration, however, must eliminate unqalified bidders
from the list to prevent such complications.
President Shapiro then called for the vote on the original
motion by Regent Roach to award the thirteen construction contracts, as recommended and seconded by Regent Power. The
motion was adopted with Regent Dunn voting no.
Regents Dunn and Power requested that the architect and
construction manager attend the Regents' meeting in May to
respond to questions concerning the slippage in the schedule and
the inclusion of an unacceptable bid in the agenda.
Regent Roach asked for information regarding the nature
of business practices among several states, and the extent to
which Michigan firms do business out-of-state. He indicated that
other policy considerations must be reviewed before a decision
is made to establish a bidding preference policy.
In response to Regent Varner's remarks with respect to the
lack of minority bidders, Vice President Brinkerhoff said that
several companies had been contacted a number of times. Special meetings were held for minority and small business firms and
these meetings were followed up with telephone calls. In most
cases there was no response, or the firms declined to bid. Some
of the firms, however, did bid as sub to one of the other bidders.
Regent Varner indicated that she could understand the lack
of response if the bond amount to be posted was over a certain
figure, but some of the components of this particular package
were at a reasonable level.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff mentioned that the University
encourages bidding by minority and small business firms either




276


APRIL MEETING, 1982


in terms of participating with a larger contractor or doing it on
their own. There are also minority employment requirements
with respect to contractors that are on the job. He said the
University would appreciate any assistance that Regent Varner
could provide in this matter.
Ambulatorty  Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the status of the ambulatory care facility. It was felt that the retention of a construction manager at the design phase, which is currently underway,
would be helpful. The fiscal planning of the facility will determine the method of construction-fast-track or multiple contract. For many reasons, including the effectiveness of combining
the supervision, the tightness of the site and the appropriateness
of having a single construction site versus fenced-off sections,
Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated the preference that BartonMalow/CM, Inc. be requested to provide this service.
President Shapiro commented that there would be further
discussion with respect to the contracting strategy and the construction manager issue before any action was requested.
North Ingalls  Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the amendment to the
Building and
RHP Bond Series A bond anticipation notes which had been approved
Anticiptitn earlier, for the North Ingalls Building and Replacement Hospital
Project, and the Series B bond anticipation notes for the Replacement Hospital program.
After discussion, Regent Dunn moved to approve: (1) the
resolution amending the resolution authorizing the Series A
notes to conform the security provisions thereof with respect to
the adjusted gross revenues of the Hospital to the security provisions of the resolution authorizing the Series B notes; and (2)
the resolution authorizing and approving the issuance and sale
of the Regents of The University of Michigan, Hospital revenue
and bond anticipation notes (Replacement Hospital Program),
Series B in the principal amount of $45,325,000 approving the
form of the Official Statement, the note purchase agreement
and authorizing certain officers to executive those documents,
and authorizing certain officers to execute the notes and any
other documentation necessary, expedient or proper in connection with the issuance, sale and delivery of the notes. Regent
Waters seconded the motion and it was adopted with Regent
Baker voting no. Regent Baker said that he did not feel it was
appropriate to pledge student fees for this purpose. The resolutions appear as Appendix A and B respectively to these minutes.
Audit Report  Mr. Carl Smith, interim director of University Audits, reviewed the six-months report. He mentioned the continuing
concern about adequate internal controls for on-line data base
systems and the adequacy of control of the various charge sys



APRIL MEETING, 1982


277


tems within the University Hospital. After further discussion
the Regents received the report.
President Shapiro stated that there was no budget report in    Budget Report
this agenda because there have been no new developments. The
biggest uncertainty is still the state's fiscal situation. Because of
this uncertainty, it is impossible to recommend a tuition range
for 1982-83 at this time. The current executive order would
defer $22 million from the University's appropriation (all three
campuses), but notes that it will be paid in the next fiscal
year. Whether repayment will be made or not, the University
must consider the appropriations for the next two years as a
whole in order to effectively build a budget.
Regent Power commented that this is the first time in a
decade that the University has been unable to set a tuition range
before the students left campus for the summer.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of February 18 and 19, 1982
and March 18 and 19, 1982 were approved.
II. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on investment transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnellabor relations, and the Replacement Hospital Project. He also
filed a report on non-competitive purchases over $1,000 from
single sources, January 1 through March 31, 1982.
Vice-President Overberger filed a monthly report on grants
and contracts for research.
Acting Vice-President Jacobson filed a report on the Office
of University Relations and Development.
III. GIFTS AND      GRANTS                                        Gifts
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from the following
sources. They were received with thanks and in accord with
their terms and conditions:
Norma Aleck Estate; for the Fulton Russel Aleck fund........$ 10,000.00
American Bureau of Shipping, New York, New York; for the
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Scholarship
and  Discretionary  fund......................................................  10,000.00
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for the
American  Cancer Society  funds........................................  43,149.00
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for the Arthritis
Foundation funds................................................  13,666.66
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn; for the
Michigan Chapter, Arthritis Foundation funds................ 10,083.31
Robert Arthur Estate; for the Unrestricted fund.................... 61,975.01




278


APRIL MEETING, 1982


Begole-Brownell Fund, Flint; for the Roy E. Brownell fund....       6,500.00
CACHE Corporation, Salt Lake City, Utah; for the Computer
Aids for Chemical Engineering fund................................  10,000.00
Celanese Corporation, New York, New York; for the following funds:
Celanese Corporation Fellowship fund..............................  4,000.00
Macromolecular Research Center....................................  3,000.00
Chase Manhattan Bank, New York, New York; for the Business School Associates Program fund................................  5,000.00
Chevron, U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California; for the Chevron
Equipment Fund in Mechanical Engineering and Applied
M echanics    fund...................................................................  10,000.00
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit; for the following funds:
Athletic Scholarships fund.................................................  500.00
Business School fund.......................................     245.00
Center for Continuing Education for Women Student
Financial  A id  fund......................................................   100.00
School of  Education  fund.................................................   30.00
College of Engineering fund............................................  3,000.00
L. L. Laing Fellowship fund............................................  2,500.00
Law   School fund................................................   325.00
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund............     60.00
Materials and Metallurgical Engineering Special fund....        300.00
School  of  M usic  fund........................................................   100.00
Plastic  Surgery  Research  fund..........................................  1,000.00
H. Marvin Pollard Medical Research Institute fund........     2,000.00
U krainian  Studies  fund..............................................   180.00
University Musical Society Gifts fund..............................  25.00
V ital  M argin   fund..............................................................   675.00
W U O M    fund......................................................................   60.00
Consumers Power Company, Jackson; for the Consumers
Power Company-Jacobsen/Cornish fund........................ 35,000.00
George H. Deuble Foundation, Canton, Ohio; for the following funds:
George H. Deuble Foundation Fellowship in Law fund             5,000.00
George H. Deuble Student Loan fund............................  5,000.00
Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, Inc., New York; for
the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation-Gulari fund          20,000.00
Eaton Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio; for the Eaton Corporation-H illard   fund......................................................  10,000.00
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York; for the
Exxon Education Foundation funds.................................. 88,000.00
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn; for the Ford Motor Company-Segel fund................................................  5,000.00
William A. Garrison Estate; for the William Albright Garrison Memorial Scholarship fund......................................  80,000.00
Gemedco Family Medical Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania;
for the Martin Luther King Memorial Scholarship fund           5,000.00
General Motors Corporation, Detroit; for the following funds:
General Motors Corporation Engineering Discretionary
fu nd..............................................................................   2,16 2.80
Macromolecular Research Center fund............................  5,000.00
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio; for the
College  of  Engineering  fund............................................  5,000.00
William D. and Madeline A. Gowans, Pasadena, California;
for the following funds:
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund............  2,500.00
E. R. Sunderland Professorship of Law fund....................  2,500.00




APRIL MEETING, 1982


279


Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook, Illinois; for Athletic Scholarsh ip s   fu n d............................................................................   5,0 0 0.0 0
Shu Ting Liu Hsia Estate; for the Levi Barbour Oriental Girls
Scholarship fund................................................  13,263.50
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., Nw York, New York; for the
Max Kade Foundation Visiting Professorship fund........     12,000.00
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek; for the W. K.
Kellogg  Foundation  funds................................................. 260,552.00
Anna M. Kiiskila Estate; for the Law School fund.................. 59,129.69
Kimberly-Clark Corporation, Neenah, Wisconsin; for the
Kimberly-Clark Corporation-Shipman fund....................  6,000.00
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh; for the Forney
W. Clement Memorial fund............................................  7,570.69
F. Jos. Lamb Company, Warren; for the Computer Aided
Engineering Laboratory fund............................................ 50,000.00
Nancy Newton Lab Trust, Ann Arbor; for the following
Nancy Newton Loeb funds:
General Cancer Research fund........................................  16,266.69
Pediatric Cancer Research fund......................................  16,266.69
Mallery Charitable Trust, Flint; for the University of Michigan Flint Campus-Flint Area Student Aid fund.............. 27,300.00
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms;
for the University of Michigan Dearborn Campus-Armenian
Studies   fund......................................................................  10,000.00
Marathon Oil Company, Littleton, Colorado; for the Geology
D epartm ent  Special  fund..................................................  50,000.00
Frederick C. Matthaei, Sr. Trusts, Ann Arbor; for the Matthaei
Botanical Gardens Development fund..............................  9,478.14
Michigan Eye-Bank, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Eye Bank
fu n d........................................1.........................................  1 1,182.0 0
Michigan Heart Association, Southfield; for the following
Michigan Heart Association funds.................................... 49,510.00
Microwave Associates, Inc., Burlington, Massachusetts; for
the Microwave Associates-Haddad fund..........................  6,250.00
National Geno Sciences, Inc., Southfield; for the Supplementary Support in Molecular Biology fund..........................  7,500.00
Christine L. Newman Trust, Old Saybrook, Connecticut; for
the James Blaine Newman Architecture Student Loan fund        7,000.00
Owens-Illinois, Toledo, Ohio; for the following funds:
AM  P   Incorporated-Yeh    fund..........................................  5,000.00
Law School Capital Campaign-Law Library Building
fund.................................................    100.00
Macromolecular Research Center fund............................  3,000.00
Mary M. Park Estate; for the Colin S. and Mary M. Park
Scholarship   fund...............................................................  43,163.73
Maude E. Ramsdell Estate; for the Maude E. Ramsdell fund          63,887.94
Revlon Health Care Group, Tuckehoe, New York; for the
Revlon Health Care Group Development fund............       10,000.00
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust, Flint; for the Esther C. Stone
C haritable   T rust  fund......................................................  9,340.74
Birge Swift Thompson Trust, New Haven, Connecticut; for
the   M edical  School  fund.................................................  6,666.66
Thrasher Research Fund, Salt Lake City, Utah; for the
Thrasher  Research-Koo   fund............................................  14,917.00
United Airlines, Chicago, Illinois; for the Physical Stress
Research fund................................................  5,000.00
Claude W. West Estate; for the Claude W. West Fund in
Engineering    fund..............................................................  30,000.00




280


APRIL MEETING, 1982


The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
Mrs. Leland I. Doan, Detroit. Colgate-Palmolive Company,
common stock, divided as follows:
Alumni  Center  fund..................................................  19,875.00
School of Business Administration Capital CampaignU ndesignated   fund............................................................  24,843.75
School  of  M usic  fund.......................................................  14,906.25
Charles S. Hutchins, Ann Arbor. Schlumberger Limited, common stock, divided as follows:
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund..........  7,176.00
Gifts  Pending  Designation  fund......................................  3,000.00
Kresge Hearing Research Institute Special fund............  3,000.00
Kenneth Keniston, Boston, Massachusetts. Evergreen Fund,
Inc.; for the Hayward Keniston Lecture fund................  7,014.23
Donald H. and Elizabeth F. Runck, Frederic. Procter &
Gamble Company, common stock; for the Donald H. and
Elizabeth  F.  Runck  fund.................................................  7,762.50
The following nonmonetary, noncash gifts were received:
Ann Arbor Bank and Trust Company, Ann Arbor. Teletronix System,
Model 1503; for the Campus Information Center
Ann Arbor Terminals, Inc., Ann Arbor. One Ann Arbor Terminals
Ambassador D-Case Terminal; for the School of Natural Resources
Paul A. Adams, Flint. Four books; for The University of MichiganFlint Campus Library
Dr. and Mrs. Jules Altman, Bloomfield Hills. The Jon Carsman painting:
"Lumberville Streaks I," oil on canvas; for the Museum of Art
Peter Amann, Ann Arbor. Two books; for The University of MichiganDearborn Campus Library
American Society for Metals, Grand Blanc. Volume 3 of Metals Handbook; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Archer, Kenney and Wilson, Dearborn. 300 volumes of The American
Law Reports (First and Second Series and Index System); for The
University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
John E. Bingley, Strong, Maine. Verses, by Nathaniel Robinson, Third
edition, 1774; for the William L. Clements Library
G. Frederic and Joan E. Bolling, Dearborn. "Le Danseur" by Henri
Matisse, colored lithograph; for The University of MichiganDearborn Campus Library
Barry Brahier, Ann Arbor. A ticket to the November 18, 1981 performance of "Tartuffe;" for the Professional Theatre Program
John J. and Florence Brownfain, Southfield. A portfolio of 12 Serigraphs
by Louise Nevelson, entitled: "Facade: Twelve Original Serigraphs
in Homage to Edith Sitwell;" for The University of MichiganDearborn Campus Library
Dan Byrne, Midland. A ticket to the November 22, 1981 performance of
"Tartuffe;" for the Professional Theatre Program
William V. Caldwell, Flint. A couch and two chairs; for The University
of Michigan-Flint Campus Mathematics Department
David B. Crawfis, Franklin Village. Six 35mm color slides of Detroit
Institute of Art paints by Diego Rivera; for the Department of the
History of Art
William H. Culp, Dearborn. Six books; for The University of MichiganDearborn Campus Library
John C. Dann, Dexter. One chapbook: Francis and Mary, the Dangers
of the Deep, 1825; for the William L. Clements Library
Frank S. Day Condamatic Company, Inc., Warren. An autographed
letter from Egbert R. Watson to his daughter, dated March 17, 1865,
regarding the Civil War; for the William L. Clements Library




APRIL MEETING, 1982


281


Mrs. Reynolds M. Denning, Ann Arbor. Twelve pieces of printed and
manuscript materials, including a manuscript of the Griffin letters
(1799-1868); for the William L. Clements Library
Mrs. Raymond DiNatale, Gregory. A wheelchair; for the Physical
Therapy Department, University Hospital
Rodman Elton Doll, Ann Arbor. Two Bushnell 55mm telephone monoculars, with cases; for the School of Natural Resources
Paul W. Duemler, Ann Arbor. Two tickets for the November 21, 1981
performance of "Tartuffe;" for the Professional Theatre Program
Judith M. Ebner, Flint. Sixteen books; for The University of MichiganFlint Campus Library
Phyllis R. Elinson, East Lansing. 126 journals; for Speech and Hearing
Sciences
Herbert S. Epstein, Waterloo, Iowa. 316 books; for the Tanner Philosophical Library
Barbara J. Evans, Ann Arbor. Two tickets to the November 6, 1981
performance of "Wings;" for the Professional Theatre Program
Federal Mogul Corporation, Ann Arbor. A complete caterpillar roller
fatigue tester; for the Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Applied Mechanics
Gilbert M. Frimet, Detroit. Larionov's "Untitled," watercolor on paper;
Dufy's "Femme Drapee," pen and ink on paper; Knath's "Still Life,"
oil on canvas; Robinson's "Calf in Meadow," oil on canvas; Picasso's:
"Entriente," "Woman with Bird," "Man and Woman" (etching and
aquatint; and lithographs) for the Museum of Art; and
Diego Rivera's "Man with Machete," pencil sketch; Nierman's
"Acquerelle of Abstract," mixed media; Raphel Soyer's "Studies of
Women," lithograph; and Miro's "LXII/LXXV," colored lithographfor The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
Joan Wallace Gartland, Royal Oak. Three books; for The University of
Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
John Gayer, Jr., Taylor. Sixty-three books; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
Gelman Sciences, Inc., Ann Arbor. An ACD 18 Scanning Densitometer;
for the Pathology Department, University Hospital
Norman F. Gerrie, Bethesda, Maryland. Approximately 40 reference
works and texts; for the School of Public Health, Program in Dental
Public Health
General Motors Corporation, Lansing. A 1980 Oldsmobile, two door
vehicle; for the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics
Dr. and Mrs. Raymond W. Goldblum, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The
Lucebert painting entitled: "The Hungry Kitchen Boy," oil on
canvas; for the Museum of Art
Edie N. Goldenberg, Ann Arbor. A couch; for the Institute of Public
Policy Studies
Marlene Goormastic, Euclid, Ohio. Thirty-five books; for the Mischa
Titiev Library
Dr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Gosman, Toledo, Ohio. Two pieces of sculpture:
Mastroianni's "The Lovers," bronze; and Michael Steiner's "Untitled" (1969), corten steel; for the Museum of Art
Michael J. Grey, West Bloomfield. A collection of gemstones consisting
of approximately 62 sapphires, 20 white opals, 12 black opals, and one
blue topaz; for the Department of Geological Sciences
Reita R. Grimm, Ann Arbor. Twenty-three volumes, plus Index of
the Encyclopedia Brittannica (1957); for the Alumni Association
Gerald Gurin, Ann Arbor. A ticket for the November 21, 1981 performance of "Tartuffe"; for the Professional Theatre Program




282


APRIL MEETING, 1982


Linda Hallich, Dearborn. A book entiled: Children and Literature: Views
and Reviews, by Virginia Haviland; for The University of MichiganDearborn Campus Library
Natan Harpaz, Detroit. Pierre Alechinski's portfolio of "Lino-Litho," linocuts and lithographs; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn
Campus Library
Wendel W. Heers, Ann Arbor. Sixty issues of periodicals, entitled: Craft
Horizons, American Craft and Art in America; for the School of Art
John A. Henke, Birmingham. Six books; for The University of Michigan
Dearborn Campus Library
William A. Hiltner, Ann Arbor. Volumes 51-86 of Astronomical Journal
(1944-1980) and volumes 1-92 of Astronomical Society of the Pacific
(1899-1980); for the University Library
J. W. Howard Hurd, Bradenton, Florida. A collection of approximately
162 artifacts; for the Museum of Anthropology
Prof. Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor. Volumes 40-41 of: Zeitschrift fiir
Papyrologie und Epipraphik; for the Department of Classical Studies
Alan D. Krisch, Ann Arbor. Two tickets to the October 17, 1981 performance of "The Blood Knot" and two tickets to the October 31,
1981 performance of "Wings;" for the Professional Theatre Program
Thomas E. Kruger, Rochester. A friction drum and rasp; for the Stearns
Collection of the School of Music
John R. Kwiecinski, Rochester. A portfolio of ten lithographs, entitled:
'Song of Songs," by Paul Wunderlich; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
Robert M. Lane, Canton, Ohio. Nine rare United States Stamps; for the
School of Public Health
Sue A. Lehrke, Ypsilanti. Various gardening supplies, pots and a plant;
for the Botanical Gardens
Stanley T. Lesser, Great Neck, New York. One portfolio of photographs
by Garry Winogrand; for the Museum of Art
Dr. and Mrs. Irving Levitt, Bloomfield Hills. The George Forster painting
entitled: "Still Life with Fruit," oil on canvas; for the Museum of
Art
Valdis V. Liepa, Ann Arbor. A Heath digital voltmeter; for the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Mrs. Edwin S. Lindberg, Ann Arbor. Thirty-four books (Nineteenth
Century); for the William L. Clements Library
Lockheed Missiles and Space Company, Sunnyvale, California. Two
Sampling Head Tektronixes; and a Hewlett Packard Oscillator; for
the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Prof. William G. Lockwood, Ann Arbor. Sixty-nine books; for the Mischa
Titiev Library
John A. M. Lyon, Ann Arbor. Twenty-five books; for the Department
of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Mrs. Barbara Mananowitzky, Ann Arbor. A shadow puppet from Java
(wayang kulit); for the School of Music
John F. Marschner, Indian Harbor, Florida. A portative organ built by
Wendhack, Redeker, and Kreuzer of Munich, Germany; for the
School of Music
Sid McQueen, Grand Blanc. Two books: for The University of MichiganFlint Campus Library
Gordon Meisner, Southfield. A portfolio of six untitled silkscreen prints,
by Jimmy Ernst; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
Miles Pharmaceuticals, West Haven, Connecticut. An Instructional Video
Disc System; for the Learning Resource Center
Horace M. Miner, Ann Arbor. Ugandan Ethnographic artifacts; for the
Museum of Anthropology




APRIL MEETING, 1982


283


Susan R. Nelson, Ann Arbor. Books; for the Mischa Titiev Library
Alex Neshkes, Southfield. J. Friedlaender's "Fleur L'ombre," acquatint
etching, and a book, entitled: Friedlaender Etchings; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
Dr. Sherry B. Ortner, Ann Arbor. Twenty-nine books; for the Mischa
Titiev Library
Robert J. Ozog, Farmington Hills. An aircraft kit BD-5B plus tools, reference materials and plans; for the Department of Aerospace Engineering
Jarrold C. Patterson, Royal Oak. Six foot Connelly Slalom water skis;
for the Alumni Association's Camp Michigania
Maxine Perrine, Flint. Seven books; for The University of MichiganFlint Campus Library
William J. Pollard, Ann Arbor. 120 copies of the journal, Photogrammetric Engineering and Remote Sensing; for the School of Natural
Resources
Wanda Rita Posuniak, Detroit. Christmas decorations; for the Fair Lane
Conference Center, University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus
Mr. and Mrs. Roy Proffitt. A sofa; for the Law School
Harry J. Reed, Jackson. Two AFC 9 foot sailboats and two sets of sails;
for the Alumni Association's Camp Michigania
Ms. Lorie Rhoads, Flushing. Eleven books; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Gerald R. Roberts Estate, Ann Arbor. Forty-five pieces of printed matter;
for the Law School Library
Richard W. Ryan, Ann Arbor. Two volumes of mss. music and four
groups of parts for band or orchestra (late 19th century); and four
reference books on the Civil War; for the William L. Clements
Library
William D. Schorger, Ann Arbor. Seven books, and volumes 6-8 and
10-11 of Scientific American; for the Mischa Titiev Library
Richard Seid, Detroit. Two hand made violins with cases; for the
School of Music, Stearns Collection
Mrs. Marjorie M. Sell, Farmington Hills. Three academic hoods: two
from The University of Michigan and one from Wayne State University; for the Office of the President
Marjorie C. Shannon, Ann Arbor. Thirteen prints, color; for University
Hospital
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Slusser, East Lansing. Two Jean Paul Slusser watercolor paintings:" Port Clyde," and "Landscape;" for the School of
Art
Russell Stambaugh, Ann Arbor. A Comfort-Aire air conditioner; for the
Institute for Human Adjustment
David R. Stuckman, Milan. Two tickets for the November 1, 1981 performance of "Wings;" for the Professional Theatre Program
Helen Hornbeck Tanner, Ann Arbor. Sixty-four books; for the Department of Psychology
Estelle Titiev, Ann Arbor. 140 books, 63 journals, and a subscription to
the American Anthropologist; for the Mischa Titiev Library
Abe Torchinsky, Ann Arbor. A Charles Parsons E flat, alto valve trombone; for the School of Music
Matthew J. Trippe, Ann Arbor. A Kodak super 8mm movie projector;
for the School of Education
Kiyoshi Tsuji, Kalamazoo. Seventy-seven issues of journals; for The
University of Michigan Library
C. Edward Wall, Ypsilanti. The Edward Bagale, fiber work, entitled:
"Athena's Passage" (2 sections framed; and the Rufino Tamayo
lithograph, entitled: "Variation of a Man #2;" for The University
of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library




284


APRIL MEETING, 1982


Alice W. Wallace, Saginaw. A Navajo blanket from the Southwest (1890 -98) and five combs from the Philippines (1901-02); for the Museum
of Anthropology
Maretta L. Warner, Traverse City. A York tenor trombone; for the
School of Music, Stearns Collection
James G. WVendel, Ann Arbor. An Apple silent type printer; for the
School of Education
John D. Wheeler, Bay City. Five books; for the William L. Clements
Library
Timothy P. White, Ann Arbor. Seventy-nine books; for the School of
Education
Professor Marcellus L. Widenbeck, Ann Arbor. Sets of journals; for the
Physics Department
Edward G. Williams, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. A bound volume of 18th
century English sheet music; for the William L. Clements Library
Dr. and Mrs. J. Robert Willson, Ann Arbor. Claes Oldenburg's "Design
for a Colossal Clothespin Compared to Barncusi's 'Kiss," color lithograph; for the Museum of Art
Gary Witherspoon, Ignacio, Colorado. 107 books; for the Mischa
Titiev Library
Patricia Wozniak, Garden City. The 1980 Year Book of The Association
of Iron and Steel Engineers; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
Michael Zinam, Ardsley, New York. A collection of twenty-two, 18th
Century almanacs and two early 19th Century almanacs; for the
William L. Clements Library


Personnel Actions
Appointments
Promotions, etc.


IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the
Regents:
NEW APPOINMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective July 1, 1982 unless otherwise indicated
Frederick Cooper, Ph.D., Professor of History, with tenure, in the Department of History and in the Residential College
Dmitri Coucouvanis, Ph.D., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Yuri Gurevich, Ph.D., Professor of Computer and Communication Sciences, with tenure
Domna Stanton, Ph.D., Professor of Romance Languages and Women's
Studies, with tenure
Steven Lewis Yaffee, Associate Professor, with tenure, in the School of
Natural Resources, September 1, 1982
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective July 1, 1982 unless otherwise indicated
Stanley Berent, Associate Professor of Psychology in the Department of
Psychiatry in the Medical School, with tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of Psychology in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, without tenure, April, 1982
Carl F. Berger, Professor of Education, reappointed as Associate Dean
for Research in the School of Education
Zvi Y. Gitelman, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, reappointed
Director of the Center for Russian and East European Studies,
September, 1982




APRIL MEETING, 1982                       285
Albert Isaac Hermalin, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure,
reappointed Director of the Population Studies Center
Joel Isaacson, Professor of the History of Art, with tenure, reappointed
Chairman of the Department of History of Art
Donald R. Kinder, Associate Professor of Political Science and Associate
Research Scientist in the Center for Political Studies (ISR), with
tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of Psychology, without
tenure, May 1, 1982
John W. Kingdon, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, also
appointed Chairman of the Department of Political Science
Marvin W. Peterson, Professor of Education, reappointed Director of the
Center for the Study of Higher Education
Cedomil Goic, Professor of Spanish, appointed the Domingo Faustino
Sarmiento Professor of Spanish-American Literature, April, 1982
Gernot L. Windfuhr, Professor of Iranian Studies, with tenure, reappointed Chairman of the Department of Near Eastern Studies
The following committee appointments were approved:            Committee
Appointments
Museum of Art, Executive Committee
Professor Raymond Grew, for a two-year term, July 1, 1982 through
June 30, 1984
Martha Cook Building, Board of Governors
Mrs. Carrie Wismer Peebles, to succeed herself, for a three-year term,
July 1, 1982 through June 30, 1985
School of Education, Executive Committee
Professor Frederick Bertolaet, for a three-year term, July 1, 1982
through June 30, 1985, vice Professor Loren Baritt, term expired
Professor William Cave, for a three-year term, July 1, 1982 through
June 30, 1985, vice Professor Robert Blackburn, term expired
Professor Ann Hungerman, for a three-year term, July 1, 1982 through
June 30, 1985, vice Professor W. Robert Dixon, term expired
Professor Dee W. Edington, for an additional one-year term, July 1, 1983
through July 1, 1984, to extend present term from two years to
three years
College of Engineering, Executive Committee
Professor Don B. Chaffin, for a four-year term, July 1, 1982 through
June 30, 1986, vice Professor Richard C. Wilson, term expired
Military Officer Education Program Committee
Mr. Leonard Stephen Dick, for a one-year term, May 1, 1982 through
April 30, 1983, student representative
School of Nursing, Executive Committee
Professor Sally Lusk, for a three-year term, July 1, 1982 through June
30, 1985, vice Professor Philip Kalisch, term expired
Professor Marilyn Svejda, for a three-year term, July 1, 1982 through
June 30, 1985, vice Professor Arlene Hegedus, term expired
Professor Judith Lynch-Sauer, to complete term beginning immediately
through June 30, 1983, vice Professor Janice Lindberg, resigned
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, Executive Board
Professor Spencer BeMent, for a three-year term, September 1, 1982
through August 31, 1985, vice Professor S. Roland Drayson, term
expired
Professor Ellwood S. Derr, for a three-year term, September 1, 1982
through August 31, 1985, vice Professor Sherri Smith, term expired




286


APRIL MEETING, 1982


Professor Susan B. Steckel, for a three-year term, September 1, 1982
through August 31, 1985, vice Professor Margaret J. Hunter, term
expired
Professor Charles Tilly, for a three-year term, September 1, 1982 through
August 31, 1985, vice Professor Keith Smith, term expired


PersonnelReports V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
Appointments       NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1982 unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Mary L. Niemeyer, M.S., Nursing and Medical Nursing
Instructor
Karen Zabrensky, M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology, March 1, 1982
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Margaret M. Gorman, M.S.N., Nursing
Joan H. Sheard, M.S., Nursing
Clinical Instructor
James Leisen, M.D., Internal Medicine
John Popovich, M.D., Internal Medicine
Diane D. Warner, B.S., Pharmacy, March 1, 1982
Promotions, etc. CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Jenny R. James, from Clinical Director to Instructor and Clinical Director of Nursing, March 1, 1982
Karen C. Uzark, from Clinical Nursing Specialist to Assistant Professor
and Clinical Nursing Specialist, January 1, 1982
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS
Effective on dates indicated
Michael R. Liepman, Assistant Professor of Family Practice and Psychiatry, March 15, 1982
Four extended sick leaves of absence were reported to the
Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
No retirement memoirs were submitted to the Regents this
month.
VII. DEATHS
Vice-President Kennedy reported the death of William C.
Grabb, M.D., Professor of Surgery-Plastic and Section Head of
Surgery-Plastic. The following memorial statement was adopted.




APRIL MEETING, 1982


287


The Regents express their heartfelt sorrow at the sudden loss of  w. c. Grabb
William C. Grabb, M.D. who died on March 31, 1982 at the age of 53. Memorial
Dr. Grabb earned his A.B. degree at Michigan State University in  Statement
1949, and his medical degree from the University of Michigan School of
Medicine in 1953. Except for an internship year at Ohio State University
Hospital, Dr. Grabb completed all of his general surgical and plastic
surgery training at The University of Michigan in Ann Arbor where he
practiced for his entire career.
Dr. Grabb became a noted author of four textbooks, including
Plastic Surgery-A Concise Guide to Clinical Practice, which has been
generrally regarded as the primary text of the specialty and is now in its
3rd edition.
Dr. Grabb won three national research awards for his scientific
investigations, two from the American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, and one from the American Society for Surgery of the Hand.
At the time of his death he was deeply involved in primary research for
the cause and treatment of port-wine hemangiomas, disfiguring red birthmarks currently of unknown etiology.
He was co-editor of the Cleft Palate Journal from 1969-1973, and
Associate Editor of the Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery Journal. He
held leading positions in every national professional plastic surgery organization at various times in his career, and was Chairman of the Examination Committee of the American Board of Plastic Surgery at the time
of his death.
As a plastic and reconstructive surgeon Dr. Grabb was recognized
for his expert treatment of cleft lip and palate, hand surgery, reconstructive, and aesthetic surgery. His scientific publications exceeded 50.
Dr. Grabb's imaginative and persistent fund raising efforts led to the
establishment of the F. Roland Sargent Plastic Surgery Research Laboratory, which he considered as a primary achievement during his tenure as
Head of the Section (1977-1982). In recognition of this, and to perpetuate
his work, the William C. Grabb Plastic Surgery Research Fund as been
created by the Department of Surgery.
John A. Gronvall, M.D., Dean of the University of Michigan School
of Medicine called Dr. Grabb's death "a tragic loss to the medical profession and the University." "Dr. Grabb was a gentleman, always
concerned for the welfare of others, and a superb surgeon with exceptional
skill and knowledge. He made major contributions to the field of plastic
surgery and will be greatly missed both as a man and a physician."
The Regents, honoring Dr. Grabb's service to his profession,
colleagues, and students, join the entire University community in
mourning his death and extend deep sympathy to his family and friends.
VIII. DEGREES                                                     Degree Lists
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the       men
Regents approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
College of Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Master of Science in Engineering, December 1981
add:
Berj John Garhouchian, B.E., Cairo University, Egypt
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, December 22, 1981
add:
Laruir D'Lise Gause




288


APRIL MEETING, 1982


Julie Lynn McConnelee
Austin William Weber
Lai Kwan Lily Yu
Bachelor of Arts, August 21, 1981
correct to show:
Jane M. O'Boyle with Honors in French
Bachelor of Arts, December 17, 1978
add:
Gayle Lorraine Hargrove
The University of Michigan-Dearborn
College of Arts, Science, and Letters
Bachelor of General Studies, December 23, 1981
correct to show:
Jacqueline Ann Tedford with distinction
Degrees   The Regents confirmed the degrees conferred at the DecemConfilmed ber 1981 Commencement for the Law School.
Doctoral Degree  The Regents approved the tentative doctoral degree lists for
List Approved the May 1982 Commencement.
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Lost Coupon  Regent Roach moved approval of the payment resolution of
Payment
Resolutions, a lost coupon of a University of Michigan 7% housing revenue
Housing bond No. 484 of 1970, (due December 1, 1995), coupon No. 21
for $175, due June 1, 1981. Regent Varner seconded the motion and it was adopted. The resolution follows.
Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Regents of
the University of Michigan held at the Administration Building,
Ann Arbor, Michigan on the      day of April, 1982, at
o'clock _.m., local prevailing time.
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan have
been duly authorized by Act 354, Public Acts of Michigan, 1972,
as amended, to replace or authorize payment without presentment lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken bonds and other
evidences of indebtedness issued by the Board of Regents and
any coupon representing interest thereon; and
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan
have duly authorized and issued certain bonds entitled University
of Michigan Housing Revenue Bonds of 1970; and
WHEREAS, certain of said coupons have been reported as
lost, specifically being coupon No. 21 of Bond No. 484, due
June 1, 1981.
WHEREAS, John G. Fowler claims to be the lawful owner
of all right, title and interest in said Bonds described in the
preceding paragraph and has requested the replacement and
payment thereof and has offered to give the Regents of The Uni



APRIL MEETING, 1982


289


versity of Michigan adequate security against loss arising out
of said replacement and payment and has agreed to pay all costs
incurred in said replacement or payment; and
WHEREAS, The Detroit Bank & Trust Company has been
supplied with satisfactory proof of ownership of the Bonds and
the circumstances surrounding their loss and has received an
indemnification bond in satisfactory form, indemnifying the
Regents of The University of Michigan, The Detroit Bank &
Trust Company and Chemical Bank.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that The Detroit
Bank & Trust Company is authorized to make payment of
John G. Fowler for the Bonds.
Regent Roach moved approval of the payment resolution of
a lost coupon of a 7.20% housing revenue bond No. 1220 of
1970 (due December 1, 2006), coupon No. 22 for $180, due
December 1, 1981. Regent Varner seconded the motion and it
was adopted. The resolution follows.
Minutes of a Regular Meeting of the Board of Regents of
the University of Michigan held at the Administraiton Building,
Ann Arbor, Michigan on the     day of April, 1982 at 
o'clock.m., local prevailing time.
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan have
been duly authorized by Act 354, Public Acts of Michigan, 1972,
as amended, to replace or authorize payment without presentment lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken bonds and other
evidences of indebtedness issued by the Board of Regents and
any coupon representing interest thereon; and
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan have
duly authorized and issued certain bonds entitled University of
Michigan Housing Revenue Bonds of 1970; and
WHEREAS, certain of said coupons have been reported as
lost, specifically being coupon No. 22 of Bond No. 1220, due
December 1, 1981.
WHEREAS, Old Kent Bank has informed the Regents of
The University of Michigan that such bank received bond
coupon No. 22 of Bond No. 1220 from the owner thereof and
subsequently lost such coupon while processing and has requested the replacement and payment thereof and has offered
to give the Regents of The University of Michigan adequate
security against loss arising out of said replacement and payment and has agreed to pay all costs incurred in said replacement or payment; and
WHEREAS, The Detroit Bank & Trust Company has been
supplied with satisfactory proof of ownership of the coupon
and the circumstances surrounding its loss and has received




290


APRIL MEETING, 1982


an indemnification bond in satisfactory form, indemnifying the
Regents of The University of Michigan, The Detroit Bank &
Trust Company and Chemical Bank.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that The Detroit Bank & Trust Company is authorized to make payment to
Old Kent Bank & Trust for the coupon.
Investment in  Following the directive of the Regents with respect to OwensCorning Fiberglas Corporation's compliance with the guidelines
for investment in South Africa, Vice-President Brinkerhoff received a letter from the corporation indicating that Fiberglas
South Africa had been sold.
Renovation  Regent Dunn moved to approve replacement of the elevators
in the Literature, Science, and the Arts Building, as recommended. Regent Baker seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Sanitary Sewer  Regent Roach moved to grant authorization to execute an
as easement to the City of Ann Arbor for a sanitary sewer. Regent
Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Renovation  Regent Dunn moved authorization to award a contract to
the low bidder, Industrial Mechanical Contractors, Inc. of Flint
for the replacement of the existing steam line from Central
Power Plant to the Medical Campus area. Regent Varner
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Real Property  Regent Baker moved approval to transfer ownership of the
Tuomy property to the Historical Society of Michigan. Regent
Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Power moved authorization to purchase the property
at 944 Wall Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan, at a price of $350,000.
The purchase is to be made from the Eye Center-Ophthalmology
Construction Project. Regent Roach seconded the motion and
it was adopted.
Regent Varner moved to approve the sale of the University's
one-third interest in property in the City of Ojai, Ventura County,
California, in conjunction with the University of Pennsylvania
and subject to the usual cost for a realtor commission, the costs
associated with splitting the two parcels and correcting termite
difficulties. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Transmission  Regent Waters moved to approve the acquisition of a
Electron
Microscop Transmission Electron Microscope for University Hospitals.
Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Bank Accounts  Regent Dunn moved approval to open two additional Uniopened versity bank accounts in Florence, Italy, for the purpose of disbursing monies necessary to the operation of the University of
Michigan/University of Wisconsin Academic Year Program.
Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.




APRIL MEETING, 1982


291


X. OTHER
Regent Dunn moved to approve the termination of the
joint University of Michigan/Wayne State University program
of University Courses in Adult Education (UCAE), effective
June 30, 1982. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Regent Baker moved approval for the Departments of
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering to join the Council for
Chemical Research (CCR) for the year 1982-83. Regent Power
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Power moved to approve University Hospitals membership in the American Management Association (AMA).
Regent Dunn seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the appointments to the
Medical Staff of the University of Michigan Hospitals, as recommended. Regent Baker seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Baker moved to approve the establishment of the
Alene and Allan F. Smith Professorship in the Law School.
Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The Regents then heard further public comments from the
following students: Ann VanDuyne, on the School of Art; Bea
Hanson, on the future of the University; Jamie Moeller, on
expenditure priorities; Steve Belkin, Henry Rice, Jonathan
Weiland, and Kathy Dervin, on the reallocation issue, redirection of the University, and research.
All the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of March totaled $1,187.36.
The Regents adjourned to meet on May 20 and 21, 1982.
RICHARD L. KENNEDY,Secretary


Joint UCAE
Program
Terminated
Memberships
Medical Staff
Appointments
A. and A. F.
Smith
Professorship
Public Comments




292


APRIL MEETING, 1982


INDEX
Appointments, 284, 286; committee, 285
Audit report, 276
Bank accounts opened, 290
Budget report, 277
Degrees: lists amended, 287; confirmed, 288; doctoral degree list
approved, 288
Economic Status of the Faculty, Committee on, (CESF), 267
Gifts, 277
Grabb, W. C., memorial statement, 287
Health Service fee, 268
Hospitals: ambulatory care facility, 276; bond anticipation notes, 276;
helicopter emergency medical service, 269; operating budget, 1982 -83, 271; replacement hospital project, bid package #8, 272; transmission electron microscope, 290
Housing, lost coupon payment resolution, 288
Investment in South Africa, 290
Medical Staff appointments, 291
Memberships, 291
Michigan Student Assembly, 272
North Ingalls Building bond anticipation notes, 276
Promotions, 284, 286
Public Comments session, 267, 271, 272, 291
Real propeerty, 290
Renovations, 290
Sanitary sewer easement, 290
Smith, A. and A. F., professorship established, 291
Transmission electron microscope, 290
University Courses in Adult Education, joint program terminated, 291




APPENDIX A
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
RESOLUTION AMENDING RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING $14,675,000
HOSPITAL REVENUE AND BOND ANTICIPATION NOTES
(NORTH INGALLS BUILDING AND REPLACEMENT HOSPITAL
PROJECT) SERIES A
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their Constitutional duties the Regents
of the University of Michigan (the "Regents"), adopted on May 22, 1981,
a Resolution Authorizing $14,675,000 Hospital Revenue and Bond
Anticipation Notes (North Ingalls Building and Replacement Hospital
Project), Series A (the "Series A Resolution"), and pursuant thereto,
caused to be issued the Regents' $14,675,000 Hospital Revenue and Bond
Anticipation Notes (North Ingalls Building and Replacement Hospital
Project), Series A (the "Series A Notes"); and
WHEREAS, by resolution adopted of even date herewith, the Regents
have authorized to be issued and delivered the Regents' $45,325,000
Hospital Revenue and Bond Anticipation Notes (Replacement Hospital
Program), Series B (the "Series B Notes"); and
WHEREAS, both the Series A Notes and the Series B Notes are
secured by Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital, as defined in the
resolutions described above; and
WHEREAS, in order to add additional covenants and agreements
for the purpose of further securing the payment of the Series A Notes
by conforming the security provisions for the Series A Notes with respect
to the Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital with the security provisions for the Series B Notes with respect to the Adjusted Gross Revenues
of the Hospital, it is necessary to amend the Series A Resolution; and
WHEREAS, Section 801 of the Series A Resolution provides that the
Regents may, without the consent of the holders of the Series A Notes
adopt resolutions supplemental to said resolution for the purpose of adding additional covenants and agreements for the purpose of further
securing the payment of the Series A Notes;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Section 402 of the
Series A Resolution is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
Section 402. Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital as Source
of Payment of Notes. To the extent that on the thirtieth day preceding any
Interest Payment Date or any other date fixed for the redemption of any
Notes, the moneys than on deposit in the Note Payment Fund are not
sufficient to meet the interest, principal, if any, and premium, if any,
coming due by maturity or call for optional redemption on such Interest
Payment Date or redemption date, the University shall, commencing the
thirtieth day prior to October 1, 1982 or such redemption date, and on
each subsequent thirtieth day preceding each Interest Payment Date or
redemption date while the Notes remain outstanding, and continuing
until the amount required hereby shall be deposited in the Note Payment
Fund, pay into the Note Payment Fund an amount of Adjusted Gross
Revenues of the Hospital sufficient to pay the interest, principal, if any,
and premium, if any, coming due on the Notes by maturity or call for
optional redemption on such Interest Payment Date or reedemption date;


293




294               APRIL MEETING, 1982
provided, however, that in making the payment into the Note Payment
Fund, Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital shall be divided pro rata
between the Note Payment Fund and any similar fund for the payment of
other Revenue Obligations, to the extent necessary to affect the pari passu
basis of the lien on Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital. Subject to
the above requirements, the University shall have and retain the full
right and ability to receive, collect, expend, invest, use or otherwise hold
or dispose of Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital as the University
deems appropriate.




APRIL MEETING, 1982


295


RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF HOSPITAL
REVENUE AND BOND ANTICIPATION NOTES TO PROVIDE
INTERIM FINANCING FOR PART OF THE REPLACEMENT
HOSPITAL PROGRAM OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
PROVIDING FOR THE PAYMENT AND SECURITY OF THE
NOTES, AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATING
THERETO.
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in
order to properly serve the needs of students attending the University of
Michigan, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Regents" or
the "University") have determined that it is necessary and appropriate to
engage in the construction, renovation, acquisition and equipping of certain hospital facilities on the campus of the University of Michigan in
Ann Arbor, Michigan (the "Replacement Hosptial Program") in replacement for certain existing hospital facilities of the University; and
WHEREAS, under authorization by a Resolution adopted May 22,
1981, as amended, the Regents have previously issued their $14,675,000
Hospital Revenue and Bond Anticipation Notes (North Ingalls Building
and Replacement Hospital Project), Series A, dated as of June 1, 1981
(the "Series A Notes"), which Series A Notes are payable from and
secured by, among other sources, the Adjusted Gross Revenue of the
Hospital (hereinafter defined); and
WHEREAS, Section 601 of the Resolution authorizing the Series A
Notes provides that the Regents may issue additional obligations secured
by a parity lien on the Adjust Gross Revenues of the Hospital under the
following terms and conditions:
(a) the University is not in default under any of its agreements,
covenants or obligations hereunder on the date of delivery of such
additional Revenue Obligations;
(b) the net proceeds of such additional Revenue Obligations are
used for any lawful Hospital purposes;
(c) the total principal amount at any time outstanding of the
Notes and such additional Revenue Obligations (but excluding the
"1980 Note") shall not exceed $60,000,000;
(d) no part of the principal of such additional Revenue Obligations may mature prior to April 1, 1984 or become due by mandatory
prepayment or mandatory redemption or by acceleration on or prior
to April 1, 1984 or be payable from deposits required to be made
on or prior to April 1, 1984, to a sinking fund or other fund
established for the payment of principal; and
(e) any Revenue Obligations which mature on April 1, 1984
shall be secured by the covenant regarding issuance of Student Fee
obligations contained in Section 404 hereof;
and;
WHEREAS, all terms and conditions for the issuance of the Notes
herein authorized as set forth in the Resolution authorizing the Series A
Notes have been, and by the terms hereof, are met; and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in
order to properly serve the interests of students attending the University
of Michigan, and to prudently control and direct expenditures of the
University's funds, the Regents deem it necessary and advisable to issue
Hospital Revenue and Bond Anticpation Notes (Replacement Hospital
Program), Series B (hereinafter defined as the "Notes") in the principal
amount of Forty-Five Million Three Hundred Twenty-Five Thousand




296


APRIL MEETING, 1982


Dollars ($45,325,000), the proceeds of which shall be used to pay, or
to reimburse the Regents for funds previously expended for, the following costs (the "Note Purposes"): (a) part of the costs of the acquisition,
construction, renovation and equipping of the Replacement Hospital
Program as shall be determined by the University; (b) the costs of
funding interest on the Notes to April 1, 1983, and (c) the costs of
issuing the Notes, including but not limited to the costs of the initial
Trustee's fees, as shall be determined by the University; and
WHEREAS, the issuance of the Notes, and the undertaking of the
Replacement Hospital Program will serve proper and appropriate public
purposes; and
WHEREAS, the Regents have been created as a constitutional body
corporate under the provisions of Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan
Constitution of 1963, and the Regents have full power under their constitutional authority for supervision of the University of Michigan and
control and direction of expenditures from the University funds, to
undertake and to provide interim financing for the Replacement Hospital
Program by issuance of the Notes, to issue the Notes, and to pledge the
sources of payment herein set forth for payment of the Notes;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
In addition to the terms defined in the preambles to the Resolution,
the following terms shall have, unless the context otherwise requires, the
meanings herein specified:
"Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital" or "Adjusted Gross
Revenues" means all revenues, income, receipts and money received, net
of contractual, bad debt, and other adjustments, all components being
determined in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
applicable to hospitals, in any period by or on behalf of the University
with respect to or arising from or relating to the operation of the Hospital excluding (1) appropriations received from the State of Michigan,
(2) proceeds of borrowing and interest earned thereon if and to the
extent such interest is required to be excluded by the terms of the
borrowing, and (3) gifts, grants, bequests, donations and contributions
received by or allocated to the Hospital.
"Adjusted Net Revenues of the Hospital" or "Adjusted Net Revenues"
means for any Fiscal Year (a) all revenues of the Hospital less (b) all
expenses of the Hospital (but excluding depreciation, amortization of
financing costs and interst expenses), all components being determined in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applicable to
hospitals.
"Co-paying Agent" means Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company,
New York, New York, or any successor Co-paying Agent in accordance
with the provisioins of Section 1202 hereof.
"Event of Default" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in
Section 801 hereof.
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the University, currently
beginning on July 1 and ending on June 30.




APRIL MEETING, 1982


297


"Funds Legally Available Therefor" means any moneys of the
University that may be legally used by the University to pay principal of,
premium, if any, and interest on, the Notes but shall not include any funds
(a) currently or subsequently pledged for, or committed to present or
future loans or other purposes to the extent so pledged or committed, or
(b) the use of which would result in the Notes herein authorized being
construed as indebtedness of the State of Michigan under the Michigan
Constitution of 1963.
"Hospital" means the University of Michigan Hospitals, located in
Ann Arbor, Michigan, including all hospital facilities used in connection
therewith, whether now existing or hereafter constructed, installed or
acquired.
"Interest Payment Date" means October 1, 1982 and each April 1
and October 1 thereafter during the period the Notes are outstanding.
"Investment Income" means and includes all interest or profit, when
received, earned through the investment or reinvestment of all moneys in
the Note Payment Fund.
"Note" or "Notes" means the $45,325,000 principal amount of
Regents of the University of Michigan Hospital Revenue and Bond
Anticipation Notes (Replacement Hospital Program), Series B, to be
issued under the Resolution.
"Note Payment Fund" means the University of Michigan Series B
Hospital Revenue and Bond Anticipation Note Payment Fund established
by Section 302 hereof.
"Note Proceeds Fund" means the University of Michigan Series B
Hospital Revenue and Bond Anticipation Note Proceeds Fund established
by Section 301 hereof.
"Noteholder" or "holder" (when used with reference to Notes) means
the bearer of any Note not registered as to principal or principal and
interest, and the registered holder of any Note registered as to principal
or principal and interest, and "holder" (when used with reference to
coupons) means the bearer of such coupons.
The terms "outstanding" or "Notes outstanding" mean, as of any
date, all Notes theretofore or then being delivered under the Resolution,
except Notes theretofore acquired by the University and cancelled, and
except further that no Notes shall be deemed outstanding where the
University shall have made provision for payment of all Notes in accordance with the Resolution by depositing into the Note Payment Fund cash
or non-callable direct obligations of the United States of America, the
principal of and interest on which when due will be sufficient to pay the
principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes as the same becomes
due through maturity or earlier redemption (provided, however, that if
the Notes are to be called for redemption, notice of such call shall
have been published or mailed as provided in the Note form) and shall
have promptly thereafter given notice of such provision for payment to
the holders of all Notes registered as to principal or fully registered and
to each holder of bearer Notes who has requested such notice in writing,
by certified or registered mail postage prepaid, addressed to the last
known address of such noteholder as it appears on the note register or
list maintained by the Trustee for such purpose.
"Regents" or "University," means the Regents of the University of
Michigan, a constitutional body corporate having general supervision of
the University and control and direction of all expenditures from its
funds.




298


APRIL MEETING, 1982


"Resolution" means this resolution and any other resolutions
amendatory or supplementary hereto in accordance with the terms hereof.
"Revenue Obligations" means the Series A Notes, the Notes and
any other debts or obligations of the University now outstanding or
hereafter issued by the University from time to time in accordance with
the terms of the Resolution, and secured by a pledge of and first lien
against Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital.
"Series A Note Payment Fund" means the University of Michigan
Series A Hospital Revenue and Bond Anticipation Note Payment Fund
established pursuant to Section 302 of the Series A Resolution.
"Series A Notes" means the $14,675,000 Regents of the University
of Michigan Hospital Revenue and Bond Anticipation Notes (North
Ingalls Building and Replacement Hospital Project), Series A, dated as of
June 1, 1981.
"Series A Resolution" means the resolution authorizing the Series A
Notes, adopted by the Regents on May 22, 1981, as amended.
"Student Fees" means the general tuition fees established from time
to time by the University, and collected from the students attending any
campus of the University of Michigan.
"Subordinated Obligations" means bonds, notes or other debt
obligations hereafter issued by the Universiy from time to time in
accordance with the terms of the Resolution and secured by and payable
from a secondary and subordinated lien on all or any part of Adjusted
Gross Revenues of the Hospital.
"Trustee" means National Bank of Detroit, Detroit, Michigan, or
any other bank or trust company at any time substituted in its place as
Trustee pursuant to Section 905 hereof.
ARTICLE II
THE NOTES
Section 201. Authorization of the Issuance of the Notes. For the
Note Purposes, as set forth in the preambles, there shall be borrowed
Forty-Five Million Three Hundred Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars
($45,325,000), and in evidence thereof there shall be issued in such
amount the Notes of the Regents which shall be designated "Hospital
Revenue and Bond Anticipation Notes (Replacement Hospital Program),
Series B."
Section 202. Limited Obligation and Other Note Terms. The
Notes shall be limited obligations of the Regents equally and ratably
secured solely by Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital, any moneys
in the Note Payment Fund and, under certain circumstances, the proceeds
of certain borrowings secured by Student Fees, all as set forth in Article
IV hereof, and the Notes shall not be a debt or liability of the State of
Michigan or a general obligation of the University.
The Notes shall be dated May 1, 1982, shall bear interest from the
date thereof (except for subsequently issued fully-registered Notes) payable October 1, 1982 and semiannually thereafter on April 1 and October 1 until maturity or earlier redemption and shall mature and bear
interest as follows: $20,000,000 of the Notes shall mature April 1, 1985,
and bear interest at the rate of nine and five-eighths percent (95/8%) per
annum, and $25,325,000 of the Notes shall mature April 1, 1986, and
bear interest at the rate of ten percent (10% ) per annum. Fully-registered
Notes if issued subsequent to the initial delivery of the Notes shall bear




APRIL MEETING, 1982


299


interest from the last day to which interest shall have been paid on the
Note or Notes in exchange for which the fully-registered Note is being
issued. The Notes shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity as
provided in the form of the Notes set forth in Section 204. Provision for
payment of the Notes in accordance with the terms of the Resolution
may be made prior to maturity at which time of provision for payment,
the Notes shall cease to be deemed outstanding under the Resolution.
The Notes shall be issued in the form of coupon Notes in the
denomination of $5,000, numbered consecutively from 1 upwards, and in
the form of fully-registered Notes, without coupons, in the denomination
of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof not exceeding the aggregate
principal amount of the Notes maturing in any one year, numbered
consecutively from R-1 upwards. Coupon Notes may be registered as to
principal only and Notes of either form may be transferred and exchanged in the manner and with the effect as provided in the form of the
Notes set forth in Section 204. The principal of all Notes and interest on
coupon Notes shall be payable upon presentation and surrender of the
Notes and interest coupons as they respectively become due at the
principal office of the Trustee. At the option of the holder, interest on
coupon Notes, and principal on coupon Notes not registered as to
principal (except to bearer) shall be payable at the principal office of the
Co-paying Agent upon presentation and surrender of the appropriate
coupons, or Note, respectively. Payment of interest on fully-registered
Notes shall be made by check or draft mailed by the Trustee to the
registered holder at the registered address. Payment shall be made in
lawful money of the United States of America.
Section 203. Execution and Delivery. The Notes shall be signed
in the name of and on behalf of the University by its Vice-President and
Chief Financial Officer or its Controller, shall have its corporate seal
affixed thereto, and the coupons attached to the Notes, if any, shall be
executed by facsimile signature of the Vice-President and Chief Financial
Officer of the University printed, lithographed or engraved thereon.
In case any officer whose signature or a facsimile of whose signature shall
appear on any Notes or coupons shall cease to be such officer before the
delivery of such Notes, such signature or facsimile shall nevertheless be
valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in
office until such delivery. The Notes shall be delivered by the Controller
to the purchaser thereof in New York, New York, Chicago, Illinois,
Detroit, Michigan or Ann Arbor, Michigan upon payment of the purchase
price.
Section 204. Form of Notes. The Notes shall be lithographed or
printed on steel-engraved borders, may bear such legends as may be
required to comply with any law or general usage, and shall otherwise be
in the following form, with such appropriate variations, omissions and
insertions as are permitted or required by the Resolution:
[Form of Coupon Note]




300


APRIL MEETING, 1982


REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
HOSPITAL REVENUE AND BOND ANTICIPATION NOTE
(REPLACEMENT HOSPITAL PROGRAM), SERIES B
$5,000                                            N o.....................
The Regents of the University of Michigan, a body corporate created
by and existing under the Constitution of the State of Michigan (hereinafter sometimes called the "University") for value received, promises to
pay to the bearer hereof, or if this note be registered, to the registered
owner, the sum of
FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
on the first day of April,  with interest thereon from the date hereof
until maturity, at the rate of  percent (  %) per annum, payable
on October 1, 1982, and semiannually thereafter on the first day of
April and October of each year, upon presentation and surrender of the
proper interest coupons hereto annexed as they severally become due.
Both principal of and interest on this Note are payable in lawful money
of the United States of America at the principal office of National Bank
of Detroit, Detroit, Michigan (the "Trustee") or (except for principal if
this Note be registered as to principal) at the option of the holder, at the
principal office of Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, New York,
New York.
In any case where the date of maturity of interest on or principal of
the Notes or the date fixed for prepayment of any Notes shall be a
Sunday or a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions are
authorized by law to close in the city in which the Trustee is located, the
payment of interest or principal may be made on the next succeeding
business day with the same force and effect as if made on the date of
maturity or the date fixed for prepayment, and no interest shall accrue
for the period after such date of maturity or date fixed for prepayment.
This Note is one of an issue of notes (the "Notes") of even date and
like tenor, aggregating the principal sum of $45,325,000 all issued pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Regents of the University on April
16, 1982 (the "Resolution") for the purpose of providing interim financing
for part of the costs of the Replacement Hospital Program at the University of Michigan Hospitals (the "Hospital"), and paying costs incidental
to the issuance of the Notes, including funding capitalized interest for the
Notes, all in accordance with the authority vested in the University by
law, particularly Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution
of 1963.
The Notes, including this Note, are equally and ratably secured solely
by an irrevocable pledge of Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital
(defined in the Resolution), any moneys in the Note Payment Fund established by the Resolution, and, under certain circumstances proceeds of
borrowings secured by Student Fees of the University all as set forth in
the Resolution. With respect to the lien on Adjusted Gross Revenues of
the Hospital only, the Notes are equally and ratably secured, pari passu,
with the University's $14,675,000 Hospital Revenue and Bond Anticipation Notes (North Ingalls Building and Replacement Hospital Project),
Series A (the "Series A Notes"), dated June 1, 1981 and due April 1,
1984. For a complete statement of the purposes for which the Notes are
issued, the sources from which and the conditions which this Note is
payable, the general covenants and provisions pursuant to which this
Note is issued, the outstanding obligations of the University which have




APRIL MEETING, 1982


301


an equal claim on the Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital with the
Notes, the rights of the holders of the Notes and the right of the
University to issue additional obligations of equal standing and priority
of lien with the Notes, as to the Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital, and, under certain circumstances, the proceeds of certain borrowings secured by Student Fees of the University, and the terms and corditions under which this Note and the Notes, or any part thereof, shall
be deemed to be no longer outstanding, reference is made to the
Resolution.
Notes of this issue shall be subject to redemption, at the option of
the University, in whole on any date, or in part on any interest payment
date, on or after April 1, 1983, at the redemption prices set forth in the
table below, plus accrued interest to the date of redemption:
Redemption Price
(expressed as a percentage
Redemption Dates               of principal to be redeemed)
April 1, 1983 through March 31, 1984           101%
April 1, 1984 and thereafter                   100%
If less than all of the outstanding Notes are called for redemption, as
herein provided, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by lot, and
for such purposes, each fully registered Note shall be treated as representing the number of Notes obtained by dividing the principal amount
of said fully registered Note by $5,000. Fully registered Notes shall be
redeemed in portions of $5,000 or integral multiples thereof. In the case
of partial redemption of a fully registered Note, a new fully registered
Note shall be issued in the remaining outstanding principal amount to
the registered holder.
Not less than thirty days notice of the call of any Notes for redemption shall be given by the Trustee by publication in a newspaper or
financial journal circulated in the City of New York, New York, which
carries as part of its regular service notices of sale of municipal bonds.
The Trustee shall send a copy of such notice to the registered holder of
each Note to be redeemed which is registered as to principal or fully
registered and to each holder of a coupon Note to be redeemed who
has requested such notice in writing, by certified or registered mail postage
prepaid, addressed to the last known address of such noteholder as it
appears upon the note register or list maintained by the Trustee for such
purpose, not later than 30 days prior to the date fixed for redemption;
but failure to give any such notice by mailing, or any defect therein, shall
not affect the validity of any proceeding for the redemption of any Note
with respect to which such failure has occurred. Notice need not be
published if all Notes to be redeemed are registered as to principal or fully
registered and at least 30 days notice is mailed to each registered holder
of Notes to be redeemed.
Notes duly called for redemption shall not bear interest after the
date fixed for redemption provided sufficient funds are on deposit with
the Trustee to redeem the Notes called for redemption on the date fixed
for redemption, and shall cease to be deemed outstanding under the provisions of the Resolution and shall cease to be entitled to any source of
payment, security or benefit under the Resolution other than the right
to receive payment from the funds deposited with the Trustee.
This Note may cease to be deemed outstanding under the Resolution
if the University at any time makes provision for payment of all Notes
by depositing with the Trustee in the Note Payment Fund cash or noncallable direct obligations of United States of America, the principal of




302


APRIL MEETING, 1982


and interest on which when due, will be sufficient to pay the principal
of and premium, if any, and interest on the Notes as the same become
due by maturity or earlier call for redemption; provided, however, that
if the Notes are to be called for redemption, notice of said call shall
have been published or mailed, as provided above. Notice of such provision for payment shall be promptly thereafter sent to the registered
holder of each Note registered as to principal or fully registered and to
each holder of a bearer Note who has requested such notice in writing,
by certified or registered mail postage prepaid, addressed to the last
known address of such noteholder as it appears upon the note register or
list maintained by the Trustee for such purpose. Upon the happening of
the above conditions, the Notes shall cease to be entitled to any source of
payment, security or benefit under the Resolution other than the right to
receive payment from the aforesaid cash or direct obligations placed in
the Note Payment Fund with the Trustee.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal amount
of or interest on this Note or any claim based thereon against the State
of Michigan, the University or any member of the University, or any
officer or agent thereof, as individuals, either directly or indirectly; nor
shall these obligations become a lien on or secured by any property, real,
personal or mixed, of the State of Michigan or the University, other
than the Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital, the proceeds of certain
borrowings secured by Student Fees, and funds in the Note Payment
Fund, all as provided in and limited by the Resolution, which are
pledged to meet or provide for the payment of said obligations; and
the liability of the University, as a body corporate, shall be limited to said
Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital, proceeds of certain borrowings
secured by Student Fees, and funds in the Note Payment Fund, all as
provided in and limited by the Resolution, all other liability, except as
expressed in the Resolution, being by the acceptance hereof and as a
part of the consideration for the issuance hereof expressly waived.
This Note is transferable by delivery unless registered as to principal
in the owner's name upon books to be kept by the Trustee for such
purpose, such registration to be noted hereon. After such registration
no transfer of this Note shall be valid unless made on said books at the
request of the registered owner hereof, or his attorney duly authorized in
writing, and similarly noted hereon; but this Note may be discharged
from registration by being in like manner transferred to bearer, whereupon transferability by delivery shall be restored, and this Note may again
from time to time be registered or made payable to bearer as before.
Such registration, however, shall not affect the negotiability of the
annexed coupons, which shall remain transferable by delivery and be payable to bearer, and payment to bearer thereof shall fully discharge the
University in respect to the interest thereon, whether or not this Note be
registered as to principal and whether or not such coupons be overdue.
Coupon Notes (including this Note) of the same maturity upon surrender
thereof at the principal office of the Trustee with all unpaid coupons
attached, may, at the option of the holder, or in the case of coupon Notes
registered as to principal, at the option of the registered owner, be exchanged for an equal aggregate principal amount of fully-registered Notes
of the same maturity, without coupons, in the denomination of $5,000,
or any integral multiple thereof. The Trustee shall make a charge for such
transfer or exchange sufficient to pay for any tax or other governmental
fee or charge required to be paid with respect to such transfer or exchange,
but all other costs of making such transfer or exchange shall be borne by
the University. No such exchange of this Note shall be made within 15 days
prior to an interest payment date on the Notes or after this Note has been
called for redemption.




APRIL MEETING, 1982                        303
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED AND RECITED that all acts, conditions and things required to be done, to happen or to be performed
precedent to and in the issuance of this Note, have been done, have happened and have been performed in due time, form and manner, as
required by law.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Regents of the University of
Michigan has caused this Note to be signed for it and in its behalf by its
Controller and its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed, and has caused
the annexed interest coupons to be executed and authenticated by the
facsimile signature of its Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer, all
as of the first day of May, 1982.
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
B y.................................................................................
Its Controller
(SEAL)
(Form of Coupon)
N o.........................                   $........................
On October (April) 1, 19...., unless the Note hereinafter mentioned
shall have been duly called for previous redemption, the Regents of the
University of Michigan promises to pay to bearer from the funds
described in the Note to which this coupon pertains, the sum shown
hereon, in lawful money of the United States of America, at the principal
office of National Bank of Detroit, Michigan, Trustee, or, at the option
of the holder, at the principal office of Manufacturers Hanover Trust
Company, New York, New York, being the interest due that date on the
Regents of the University of Michigan Hospital Revenue and Bond
Anticipation Note (Replacement Hospital Program), Series B, dated
M ay  1, 1982, No..................
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN


By.................................................................................
Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer




304          APRIL MEETING, 1982
REGISTRATION
NOTHING TO BE WRITTEN HEREON EXCEPT
BY THE TRUSTEE, AS REGISTRAR


Date of                   Signature of        Name of
Registration              Registrar           Registered Owner


[Form of Fully-Registered Note]
The form of the fully-registered Note shall be the same as the form
of the coupon Note with the exception of the heading and the first,
eleventh and final paragraphs, which shall be as follows:
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
HOSPITAL REVENUE AND BOND ANTICIPATION NOTE
(REPLACEMENT HOSPITAL PROGRAM),
SERIES B
$........................                      N o.  R -........................
The Regents of the University of Michigan, a body corporate
created by and existing under the Constitution of the State of Michigan
(hereinafter sometimes called the "University") for value received,
promises  to  pay..................................... or registered  assigns, the  principal
sum   of........................................  D ollars   ($........................)   on   the   first
day of April,........, upon the presentation and surrender hereof at the
principal office of National Bank of Detroit, Detroit, Michigan, (the
"Trustee") and to pay by check or draft mailed to the registered holder
at the registered address, interest on such prinicipal sum from......................, to maturity at the rate of............ percent (.... %) per annum, payable on.............................., and each April 1 and October 1 thereafter.
Both principal and interest are payable in lawful money of the United
States of America.
This note is transferable only upon the books of the University kept
for that purpose by the Trustee, by the registered owner hereof in person,
or by his attorney duly authorized in writing, upon surrender of this Note
together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Trustee
duly executed by the registered owner or his attorney duly authorized in
writing, and thereupon a new fully-registerd Note or Notes of the same
maturity, without coupons, and in the same aggregate principal amount,
or coupon Notes of the same maturity, registrable as to principal only, of
the denomination of $5,000 in the same aggregate principal amount, shall
be issued to the designated transferee (or to the registered holder if the
transfer is solely for the purpose of exchanging fully-registered Notes for
coupon Notes or for fully-registered Notes of different denominations) in
exchange therefor. The Trustee shall make a charge for such transfer or
exchange sufficient to pay for any tax or other governmental fee or
charge required to be paid with respect to such transfer or exchange, but




APRIL MEETING, 1982                       305
all other costs of making such transfer or exchange shall be borne by the
University. No such transfer or exchange shall be made within 15 days
prior to an interest payment date on the Notes or after this Note or any
portion thereof has been called for redemption.
IN  WITNESS WHEREOF, the Regents of the University of
Michigan has caused this Note to be signed for it and in its behalf by
its Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer or Controller, and its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed, all as of the first day of May, 1982.
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
B y..............................................................................................
I ts......................................................................................
[SEAL]
Section 205. Replacement of Notes. Subject to applicable State of
Michigan law, in case a Note or any coupons pertaining thereto shall be
mutilated, lost, stolen or destroyed, then upon production of such mutiliated
Note or coupon or evidence satisfactory to the Trustee and the University of
the loss, theft or destruction of such Note and the coupons attached thereto,
and receipt of indemity satisfactory to the University and the Trustee,
the University, in its discretion, may execute and deliver a substitute Note
and coupons in exchange for and upon cancellation of the Note which has
been mutiliated, or in lieu of the Note which has been lost, stolen or
destroyed. The Trustee and the University may require payment by the
owner of such Note or coupons of a sum sufficient to reimburse them
for any expense incurred in the preparation and issuance of such
substitute Note or coupons.
Section 206. Cancellation of Notes and Coupons. All Notes which
have been retired by maturity, redemption or purchase by the University
and all paid coupons shall be cancelled by the Trustee and cremated or
destroyed and a certificate of destruction shall be delivered by the Trustee
to the University. All fully-registered Notes in substitution or exchange
for which other Notes have been delivered shall immediately be delivered
by the Trustee to the University. Coupon Notes in substitution or exchange for which other Notes have been delivered shall be retained by the
Trustee for future exchange.
ARTICLE III
ESTABLISHMENT OF FUNDS
Section 301. Establishment of Note Proceeds Fund. There is hereby
created and established the Note Proceeds Fund, which shall be a subaccount within a general banking account of the University designated
by the Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer. There shall be deposited in the Note Proceeds Fund all proceeds from the sale of the
Notes, except premium and accrued interest and capitalized interest to be
deposited in the Note Payment Fund pursuant to Section 302. All moneys
in the Note Proceeds Fund shall be used for the purposes and disbursed
as provided in Article V.
Section 302. Establishment of Note Payment Fund. There is hereby
created and established with the Trustee the Note Payment Fund. There
shall be deposited in the Note Payment Fund the following funds:
1. Any accruel interest or premium received at the time of
delivery of the Notes.




306


APRIL MEETING, 1982


2. An amount as capitalized interest from the proceeds of the
Notes equal to the interest on the Notes from their delivery to
April 1, 1983.
3. Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital, as pledged and
required to be paid into the Note Payment Fund at the times and
in the amounts provided in Section 402.
4. The proceeds of borrowings pledged for the payment of the
Notes pursuant to Section 404 hereof.
5. All Funds Legally Available Therefor authorized or permitted to be paid into the Note Payment Fund pursuant to Section
403.
6. All Investment Income.
All moneys in the Note Payment Fund shall be used for the purposes and
disbursed as provided in Article V.
ARTICLE IV
SOURCES OF PAYMENT AND SECURITY FOR THE NOTES
Section 401. Security for the Notes. The Notes are not debts or
general obligations of the State of Michigan, nor general obligations of
the University, but are limited obligations of the University equally and
ratably secured solely by the following:
1. All moneys in the Note Payment Fund;
2. Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital;
3. The proceeds of any borrowings pledged for the payment of
of the Notes pursuant to Section 404; and
4. All Investment Income.
As security for the payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest
on the Notes, the University hereby pledges and grants to the Noteholders
a security interest in all of the foregoing, and in order to assure this
security the University covenants and agrees that the Noteholders shall
have a first lien on all moneys in the Note Payment Fund and Investment
Income, a first lien against Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital of
equal standing and priority, pari passu, with other Revenue Obligations,
including additional Revenue Obligations which the University reserves
the right to issue under Article VI, and the Series A Notes, and a first lien
against the proceeds on borrowings referred to in item 3 above of equal
standing and priority, pari passu, with other Revenue Obligations for the
payment of which the University has covenanted to issue obligations
payable from Student Fees. The lien of the pledge and security interest
granted hereby shall be valid and binding from the date of the issuance
and delivery of the Notes, and all moneys or properties subject thereto
which are hereafter received shall immediately be subject to the lien of
the pledge without physical delivery or further act. The lien of the
pledge and security interest shall be valid and binding against all parties
having a claim in tort, contract or otherwise against the Regents, except
the holders of Revenue Obligations, irrespective of whether such parties
have notice of the lien.
Section 402. Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital as Source
of Payment of Notes. To the extent that on the thirtieth day preceding
any Interest Payment Date or any other date fixed for the redemption of
any Notes the moneys then on deposit in the Note Payment Fund are not
sufficient to meet the interest, principal, if any, and premium, if any,
coming due by maturity or call for optional redemption on such Interest
Payment Date, or redemption date, the University shall, commencing the
thirtieth day prior to October 1, 1982, or such redemption date and on
each subsequent thirtieth day preceding each Interest Payment Date or




APRIL MEETING, 1982                      307
such redemption date while the Notes remain outstanding, and continuing
until the amount required hereby shall be deposited in the Note Payment
Fund, pay over to the Trustee for deposit into the Note Payment Fund
all Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital until the amount on deposit
in the Note Payment Fund is sufficient to pay the interest, principal, if
any, and premium, if any, coming due on the Notes by maturity or call
for optional redemption on such Interest Payment Date or redemption
date; provided, however, that in making the payment over to the
Trustee, Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital shall be divided pro
rata between the Note Payment Fund, the Series A Note Payment Fund
and any similar fund for the payment of other Revenue Obligations, to
the extent necessary to effect the pari passu basis of the lien on Adjusted
Gross Revenues of the Hospital. Subject to the above requirements, the
University shall have and retain the full right and ability to receive,
collect, expend, invest, use or otherwise hold or dispose of Adjusted Gross
Revenues of the Hospital as the University deems appropriate.
Section 403. Funds Legally Available Therefor as Source of Payment for the Notes. The University reserves the right to use any Funds
Legally Available Therefor, including income from the Hospital and the
proceeds of any refunding bonds or notes of the University, for the
purpose of paying principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes.
Section 404. Additional Security for the Notes. As additional security
for the payment of the principal and interest on the Notes, the University
hereby covenants that if on or before January 1, 1985, and January 1,
1986, there has not been deposited in the Note Payment Fund sufficient
moneys to pay the principal and interest on the Notes due on April 1,
1985, and April 1, 1986, respectively, the University shall use its best
efforts to sell on or before February 1, 1985, and February 1, 1986,
respectively and deliver on or before March 1, 1985 and March 1, 1986,
respectively, bonds, notes or other obligations secured by and payable
from Student Fees, the proceeds of which will be sufficient to pay the
principal and interest on the Notes, together with any then past due
interest. In addition, the University covenants that immediately upon the
acceleration prior to maturity of the Notes (unless sufficient funds are
otherwise made available to pay all principal and accrued interest on the
Notes) it shall use its best efforts to issue, sell and deliver as soon thereafter as possible, bonds, notes or other obligations secured by and payable from Student Fees, the proceeds of which will be sufficient to pay
all principal and accrued interest then due (or past due) on the Notes
and all other Revenue Obligations for the payment of which the University has covenanted to issue bonds, notes or other obligations payable
from and secured by Student Fees. As additional security for the payment
of the principal and interest on the Notes, the University hereby pledges
and grants a security interest in the proceeds of such Student Fee bonds,
notes or obligations, and agrees to pay a sufficient amount of the proceeds
thereof to pay the principal and interest on the Notes, and any past due
interest, immediately upon receipt thereof into the Note Payment Fund
and the fund established for the payment of such other Revenue Obligations. The University hereby covenants that it will not, so long as any
of the Notes remain outstanding, issue bonds, notes or other obligations
secured by and payable from Student Fees in such amounts so that the
University could not legally issue, immediately after the delivery of such
Student Fee bonds, notes or other obligations, additional Student Fee
bonds, notes or other obligations in amounts sufficient to meet the
requirements of this paragraph, and the requirements of Section 404 of
the Series A Resolution, without violating the terms or requirements of
any resolutions, indentures, loan agreements or similar documents by
which the University may be bound.




308               APRIL MEETING, 1982
ARTICLE V
FLOW AND USE OF FUNDS
Section 501. Application of Note Proceeds. Immediately upon
the receipt thereof, the proceeds of the sale of the Notes shall be apportioned among and deposited in the Note Proceeds Fund and the Note
Payment Fund in the following manner:
1. Any accrued interest and premium received on sale of the
Notes and the amount of capitalized interest specified in Section 302
shall be deposited in the Note Payment Fund; and
2. The balance of the proceeds of the Notes shall be deposited
in the Note Proceeds Fund.
Section 502. Use of and Disbursements from Note Proceeds Fund.
Moneys in the Note Proceeds Fund shall be used for the following Note
Purposes:
(a) paying a part of the costs of acquiring, constructing, renovating and equipping the Replacement Hospital Program, as shall
be determined by the University;
(b) paying the costs of issuing the Notes, as shall be determined
by the University.
Any amount remaining in the Note Proceeds Fund after completion of
the Note Purposes, shall be used by the University for the planning,
acquisition, construction, furnishing or equipping of any facility for use
by the Hospital. The depository for the Note Proceeds Fund shall make
disbursements from the Note Proceeds Fund upon the order of the
University, and shall have no duty or liability with respect to the manner
or method in which moneys are withdrawn by the University from the
Note Proceeds Fund or in fact are used or applied by the University.
Moneys in the Note Proceeds Fund shall be invested at the direction of
the University in any investments legally available for University funds.
Section 503. Use of and Disbursements from Note Payment Fund.
The Trustee shall use moneys in the Note Payment Fund to pay principal,
premium, if any, and interest on the Notes as the same become due as
provided in the Note forms contained in Section 204 hereof. The Trustee
may use moneys in the Note Payment Fund for the acquisition of Notes
in the open market at the written direction of the University; provided,
however, that unless a tender offer is made for all then outstanding Notes,
no Note shall be purchased at a price in excess of the redemption price
of that Note on the next available redemption date. Any amount remaining in the Note Payment Fund after the Notes have been paid or provision
made therefor under the Resolution shall be returned to the University.
Section 504. Investments. Moneys held for the credit of the Note
Payment Fund not required for immediate use or disbursement shall, as
nearly as may be practicable, be continuously invested and reinvested by
the Trustee in accordance with the written direction of the University in
the following investments:
1. Direct obligations of the United States of America or in
obligations the principal and interest of which are unconditionally
guaranteed by the United States of America;
2. Interest bearing savings account or accounts or certificates
of deposit of any bank whose deposits are insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation;
3. Obligations issued or guaranteed by agencies or instrumentalities of the United States of America; or
4. Repurchase agreements with banks (which may include the
Trustee) described in (2) above or with government bond dealers




APRIL MEETING, 1982                        309
reporting to, trading with, and recognized as primary dealers by a
Federal Reserve Bank, the underlying securities of which are obligations described in (1) above, provided that the underlying securities
are required to be continuously maintained at a market value of not
less than the amount so invested.
The above investments shall mature not later than the respective
dates estimated when the moneys in the Note Payment Fund shall be
needed for the purposes provided in the Resolution. All investments shall
be sold at the prevailing market price. All investments shall be deemed a
part of such Fund and all profits and losses shall be credited or charged
to such Fund.
Section 505. Arbitrage. The University shall not invest, reinvest,
or accumulate any moneys deemed to be proceeds of the Notes pursuant
to ~103(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, and the
applicable regulations thereunder, in such a manner as to cause the Notes
to be "arbitrage bonds" within the meaning of said ~103(c) and the
applicable regulations thereunder.
ARTICLE VI
ADDITIONAL REVENUE OBLIGATIONS AND DEFEASANCE
Section 601. Additional Revenue Obligations and Subordinated
Obligations. The University covenants and agrees that so long as any of
the Notes remain outstanding the University will not issue any bonds,
notes or other obligations, or otherwise incur any indebtedness, secured
by a lien on all or any part of the Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital, except as hereinafter provided. The University reserves the right
to issue additional Revenue Obligations having equal standing and priority
of lien pari passu against Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital and
against the proceeds of the borrowings referred to in Section 404, with the
Notes and other then existing Revenue Obligations of the University,
provided:
(a) the University is not in default under any of its agreements,
covenants or obligations hereunder on the date of delivery of such
additional Revenue Obligations;
(b) the net proceeds of such additional Revenue Obligations are
used for any lawful Hospital purposes;
(c) no part of the principal of such additional Revenue Obligations may mature on or prior to April 1, 1986 or become due (other
than by acceleration following default) by mandatory prepayment
or mandatory redemption on or prior to April 1, 1986 or be payable
from deposits required to be made on or prior to April 1, 1986, to a
sinking fund or other fund established for the payment of principal.
The University reserves the right to issue or incur bonds, notes or
other debt obligations ("Subordinated Obligations") payable from and
secured by a lien on all or any part of Adjusted Gross Revenues of the
Hospital, which lien shall be secondary and subordinated to the lien on
Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital created hereby, provided:
(a) The University is not in default under any of its agreements,
covenants or obligations hereunder on the date of delivery of such
Subordinated Obligations; and
(b) No part of the principal of such Subordinated Indebtedness
may mature on or prior to April 1, 1986 or become due (other than
by acceleration following default) by mandatory prepayment or
mandatory redemption on or prior to April 1, 1986 or be payable
from deposits required to be made on or prior to April 1, 1986 to a
sinking fund or other fund established for the payment of principal.




310


APRIL MEETING, 1982


Section 602. Defeasance. Upon the payment into the Note Payment Fund of cash which, or non-callable direct obligations of the United
States of America the principal of and interest on which when due, will
be sufficient to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on the
Notes as the same become due through maturity or earlier redemption,
the giving of notice to the Noteholders as hereinbefore specified, and, if
the Notes ate to be redeemed, notice thereof having been published or
mailed as required by the Note form, the Adjusted Gross Revenues of
the Hospital and all other funds and security for the Notes (except said
cash or obligations of the United States) shall be released from the lien
of the Resolution, the University shall be released from the terms of the
Resolution, and except for payment thereof only from said cash or direct
obligations of the United States of America, the Notes shall not be deemed
to be outstanding.
ARTICLE VII
FURTHER COVENANTS AND LIMITATION ON RECOURSE OF
NOTEHOLDERS
The University covenants and agrees with the holders of the Notes
as follows:
Section 701. Rate Covenant. The University covenants that, subject to applicable law, so long as any of the Notes remain outstanding it
will fix, charge and collect fees, charges and rates for service provided by
or at the Hospital so that in each Fiscal Year commencing the Fiscal Year
beginning July 1, 1982, Adjusted Net Revenues of the Hospital shall equal
or exceed one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the maximum
annual interest requirements on all outstanding Revenue Obligations and
outstanding Subordinated Obligations. The University further covenants
that if in any Fiscal Year the Adjusted Net Revenues of the Hospital
shall be less than the amount required by this Section 701, it will, before
the 15th day of the fifth month of the following Fiscal Year, employ a
management consultant of national reputation to make recommendations
as to a revision of the rates, fees and charges of the Hospital or the
methods of operation of the Hospital which will result in producing the
amount so required in such following Fiscal Year, and copies of such
reques and the recommendations of the Management Consultant shall be
filed with the Trustee. The University covenants and agrees that promptly
upon its receipt of such recommendations, subject to applicable requirements or restrictions imposed by law, it shall revise its rates, fees and
charges or its methods of operation and shall take such other action as
shall be in conformity with such recommendations. If the University shall
comply with all recommendations of the Management Consultant in
respect to its rates, fees, charges and methods of operation, the failure of
the Adjusted Net Revenues of the Hospital to meet the requirements of
this Section 701 will not constitute an Event of Default under the provisions of this Resolution.
Section 702. Audits and Records. The University shall keep and
maintain accurate books and records relating to the operation of the
University of Michigan and the operation of the Hospital and the collection of Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital and the allocation
thereof, and the payments into the Note Payment Fund, which said
books and records shall be open for inspection by the Trustee or any
holder of the Notes at any reasonable time. Said books and records shall
be audited annually by certified public accountants and copies of said
audits sent to the Trustee and the managers of the syndicate purchasing
the Notes from the University not later than four months after the end
of each Fiscal Year, commencing the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 1982.




APRIL MEETING, 1982


311


Section 703. Payment of Notes. The University shall, out of
Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital, moneys in the Note Payment
Fund, and the proceeds of borrowings referred to in Section 404, duly
and punctually pay or cause to be paid the principal of, premium, if any,
and interest on each Note at the places, on the dates and in the manner
provided in the Notes and in the coupons appertaining thereto, according
to the true intent and meaning thereof.
Section 704. Performance of Covenants; Authority. The University shall faithfully perform all of its covenants, undertakings, provisions
and agreements contained in the Resolution and in any Note executed
and delivered hereunder and in all other proceedings of the University
pertaining thereto. The University is duly authorized under the Constitution and laws of the State of Michigan to adopt the Resolution, to
issue the Notes, to pledge Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital,
moneys in the Note Payment Fund and the proceeds of borrowings
referred to in Sction 404, in the manner and to the extent herein set forth,
to acquire, construct, renovate and equip the Replacement Hospital
Program, all as contemplated by this Resolution; all action on its part
relating to the adoption of the Resolution and the issuance, execution
and delivery of any Notes has been or will be duly and effectively taken
prior to the delivery of such Notes; and the Notes in the hands of the
holders and owners thereof are and will be valid and enforceable limited
obligations of the University according to their terms.
Section 705. Further Assurances. The University shall, to the
extent authorized or permitted by law, do, adopt, make, execute,
acknowledge and deliver such further acts, resolutions, deeds, conveyances,
pledges and assurances as may be necessary or desirable for the better
assuring, pledging and confirming unto the Noteholders the Adjusted
Gross Revenues of the Hospital, moneys in the Note Payment Fund, and
proceeds of borrowings referred to in Section 404 pledged hereunder or
intended so to be.
Section 706. Limited Recourse. There shall be no recourse under
any obligation, covenant, or agreement contained in the Resolution or any
Note or coupon thereto attached against the State of Michigan, or the
University or any member or officer of the University, it being expressly
understood and agreed that the Notes and the coupons thereto attached
and the obligations hereunder are secured by and payable only from
Adjusted Gross Revenues of the Hospital, proceeds of borrowings referred
to in Section 404 and moneys at such time in the Note Payment Fund.
ARTICLE VIII
EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES
Section 801. Events of Default. Any one or more of the following
events shall be deemed an "Event of Default":
(a) Default in the due and punctual payment of any interest
on any Note on any date when such interest is due;
(b) Default in the due and punctual payment of the principal
and premium, if any, of any Note, whether at the stated maturity
thereof or by optional redemption;
(c) Failure by the University to use its best efforts to issue
bonds, notes or other obligations payable from and secured by Student Fees as required by Section 404 hereof;
(d) The University shall default in the performance or observance of any other of the covenants, agreements or conditions on its
part contained in the Resolution or in the Notes; provided, however,




312


APRIL MEETING, 1982


that no such default shall constitute an Event of Default unless it
shall not have been cured within 90 days following receipt of written
notice thereof by the University from the Trustee or 25% of the
holders of outstanding Notes; and provided, further, that if the default be such that it cannot be corrected within such period, it shall
not constitute an Event of Default if corrective action is instituted by
the University during such period and diligently pursued until such
default is corrected.
Section 802. Remedies. Upon the happening and continuance of
an Event of Default the Trustee may, and upon the written request of the
holders of 25% in principal amount of the outstanding Notes shall, in its
own name, enforce its rights and the rights of the Noteholders by any
one or more of the following remedies:
(a) Declare the entire principal of and accrued interest on the
Notes to be immediately due and payable, provided, however that so
long as any Series A Notes are outstanding under the Series A
Resolution, the principal and interest on the Notes shall not, pursuant to this Section 802(a), be declared due and payable on any
date on or prior to April 1, 1984;
(b) bring action upon the Notes;
(c) bring action either by mandamus to compel the University
to perform its covenants, agreements and duties under the Resolution
or by injunction to prevent the University from performing any
action in violation of such covenants, agreements, and duties;
(d) bring action to require the University to account as if it
were the trustee of an express trust for the holders of the Notes; or
(e) foreclose or realize upon the pledge and security interest
created in Section 401.
Section 803. Waiver of Default. If all defaults are made good,
unless the principal and interest on the Notes has been declared due and
payable pursuant to Section 802(a), the Trustee may, and with the
consent of the holders of 25% of the principal amount of outstanding
Notes shall, waive an Event of Default and annul its consequences.
Section 804. Noteholders' Rights to Proceed. In the event the
holders of 25% of the principal amount of outstanding Notes shall direct
the Trustee to exercise one or more of the remedies upon Event of
Default herein authorized and shall reasonably indemnify the Trustee for
all costs and expenses in the exercise of said remedies as provided in
Section 901(e) and the Trustee shall fail to take such designated action
as directed within 15 days after receivng written notice of the same and
being so indemnified, the holders of 25% of the principal amount of
outstanding Notes shall have the right to exercise any and all of the
remedies herein authorized in the same manner as if the same had been
instituted by the Trustee. Upon an Event of Default, Noteholders shall
have the right to bring individual action only to enforce payment of the
principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes of the respective
holders thereof at the respective due dates thereof, but only from Adjusted
Gross Revenues of the Hospital, moneys in the Note Payment Fund, and
the proceeds of borrowings referred to in Section 404, and only if the
Trustee has not taken similar action.
Section 805. Possession of Notes by Trustee Not Required. All
rights of action under the Resolution or the Notes enforceable by the
Trustee may be enforced by it without the possession of any of the Notes
or the coupons appertaining thereto or the production thereof at any
proceedings relative thereto. Any action instituted by the Trustee shall be
brought in its name for the benefit of all the holders of the Notes and
coupons.




APRIL MEETING, 1982


313


Section 806. Remedies Cumulative. The rights and remedies of the
Trustee shall be cumulatie, and any failure on its part to act shall not
constitute a waiver of any right or remedy which it or the Noteholders
may possess hereunder.
Section 807. Application of Moneys. All moneys received by the
Trustee pursuant to any right given or action taken under the provisions
of this Article shall be applied first to the payment of the cost and expenses of the proceedings resulting in the collection of such moneys and
of the expenses, liabilities, advances and charges incurred or made by the
Trustee or Noteholders. The balance of such moneys, after providing for
the foregoing shall be deposited by the Trustee in the Note Payment
Fund and be applied as follows:
(a) Unless all principal and interest on the Notes shall have
become or shall have been declared due and payable, all such moneys
shall be applied:
First-To the payment of interest in default, in the order of
maturity thereof; and
Second-To the payment of the unpaid principal on the Notes
which shall have become due, in the order of their due dates, with
interest on such principal from the respective dates upon which it
became due.
(b) If all principal and interest on the Notes shall have become
due or shall have been declared due and payable, all such moneys
shall be applied to the payment of the principal and interest then
due and unpaid upon the Notes, without preference or priority of
principal over interest or of interest over principal, or of any installment of interest or principal over any other installment of interest
or principal or of any Note over any other Note.
(c) The remainder, if any, shall be paid to the University.
ARTICLE IX
THE TRUSTEE
Section 901. Appointment of Trustee; Acceptance of Trust and
Conditions Thereof. National Bank of Detroit, Detroit, Michigan, is
hereby appointed Trustee hereunder. The Trustee shall accept and agree
to perform the trusts imposed by the Resolution by depositing with the
University a written instrument of acceptance, but only upon the following terms and conditions:
(a) The recital of facts herein shall be taken as statements by
the University and shall not be construed as made by the Trustee.
(b) The Trustee shall have no responsibility for the validity or
execution of the Notes, or for the nature, extent or amount of the
security afforded hereby, or for any breach by the University of any
covenants herein contained.
(c) The Trustee, except for negligence or willful misconduct,
shall not be liable for any loss or damage whatsoever arising out of
any action or failure to act in connection with its obligations under
the Resolution; and shall not be liable for the exercise of any discretion or power hereunder, or mistake of judgment, or otherwise,
except for negligence or willful misconduct.
(d) The Trustee shall be protected in any action taken upon any
notice, resolution, request, consent, certificate, statement or other
paper believed by its officers to be genuine and to have been passed
or signed by the proper party or parties. The Trustee shall not be
bound to recognize any person as a holder of the Notes issued here



314               APRIL MEETING, 1982
under unless and until the same is submitted to the Trustee for
inspection, if required, and title satisfactorily established, if disputed.
(e) The Trustee may select and employ suitable agents and
attorneys. The Trustee may act upon the opinion or advice of any
attorney (who may be an attorney for the University) approved by
the Trustee in the exercise of reasonable judgment, and shall not
be responsible for any loss or damages resulting from reliance in
good faith upon such opinion or advice. The reasonable compensation
and expenses of the Trustee and such agents and attorneys shall be
paid by the University and established by the University and the
Trustee from time to time in writing. The Trustee shall be under no
obligation or duty to perform any act hereunder or defend any suit
unless indemnified to it ssatisfaction.
Section 902. Funds to be Held in Trust. The Trustee shall hold all
sums received hereunder as special trust funds which shall be held for the
benefit and security of the holders of the Notes and all of said funds shall
be used only for the purposes and in the manner herein set forth.
Section 903. Resignation of Trustee. The Trustee may resign by
giving not less than 60 days written notice to the University and publishing notice thereof, specifying the date when such resignation shall take
effect, once in a newspaper or financial journal published in the City of
New York, New York, which carries, as part of its regular service, notices
of sale of municapal bonds, and such resignation shall take effect upon
the day specified in such notice unless previously a successor shall have
been appointed, as provided in Section 905, in which event such resignation shall take effect immediately on the appointment of such successor.
Section 904. Removal of Trustee. The Trustee shall be removed
by the University if at any time so requested by an instrument or concurrent instruments in writing, filed with the Trustee and the University,
and signed by the holders of a majority in principal amount of the outstanding Notes or their attorneys-in-fact duly authorized, excluding any
Notes held by or for the account of the University. The University may
remove the Trustee at any time, except during the existence of an Event
of Default for such cause as shall be determined in the sole discretion
of the University by filing with the Trustee an instrument to such effect
signed by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or Controller.
Section 905. Appointment of and Transfer to Successor Trustee.
If the Trustee shall resign or shall be removed or shall become incapable
of acting, or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or if a receiver,
liquidator or conservator of the Trustee, or of its property, shall be
appointed, or if any public officer shall take charge or control of the
Trustee, or of its property or affairs, the University covenants and agrees
that it will thereupon appoint a successor Trustee which shall be a bank
or trust company having a capital and surplus aggregating at least
$15,000,000. The University shall publish notice of any such appointment made by it in a newspaper or financial journal published in the City
of New York, New York, which carries, as part of its regular service,
notices of sale of municipal bonds, within 20 days after such appointment.
The Trustee ceasing to act shall execute, acknowledge and deliver
such instruments of conveyance and further assurance and do such other
things as may reasonably be required for more fully and certainly vesting
and confirming in such successor Trustee all the right, title and interest
of the predecessor Trustee in and to any property held by it under the
Resolution, and shall pay over, assign and deliver to the successor Trustee
any money or other property subject to the trusts and conditions herein
set forth.




APRIL MEETING, 1982                      315
ARTICLE X
SUPPLEMENTAL RESOLUTIONS
Section 1001. Supplemental Resolutions Not Requiring Consent of
Noteholders. The University may without the consent of the Noteholders adopt resolutions supplemental to the Resolution as shall not be
inconsistent with the terms and provisions hereof for any one or more
of the following purposes:
(a) To confirm or further assure the pledge of the Adjusted
Gross Revenues of the Hospital, moneys in the Note Payment Fund,
or proceeds of borrowings referred to in Section 404, or to grant or
pledge to the Noteholders any additional security;
(b) To add additional covenants and agreements of the University for the purpose of further securing the payment of the Notes;
(c) To prescribe further limitations and restrictions upon the
issuance of Revenue Obligations by the University;
(d) To cure any ambiguity or formal defect or omission in the
Resolution;
(e) To make any other change in, amendment to, or modification of the Resolution which, in the judgment of the Trustee, is not
detrimental to the Noteholders.
Section 1002. Supplemental Resolutions Requiring Consent of Noteholders. Exclusive of supplemental resolutions covered by Section 1001
for which consent of Noteholders is not required, the holders of not less
than 65% in the aggregate principal amount of the Notes outstanding
shall have the right to consent to the adoption by the University of such
other supplemental or amendatory resolutions as shall be deemed necessary and desirable by the University; provided, however, that nothing
contained in this Section shall permit, or be construed as permitting,
(i) an extension of the maturity of the principal of or the interest on any
Note issued hereunder, or (ii) a reduction in the principal amount of
any Note or the rate of interest thereon, or (iii) a privilege or priority
if any Note or Notes over any other Note or Notes, or (iv) a reduction
in the aggregate principal amount of the Notes required for consent
to such supplemental or amendatory resolution.
If the University shall propose to adopt a supplemental resolution
requiring consent of the Noteholders, it shall cause notice of the proposed adoption of such supplemental resolution to be published in a daily
newspaper or financial journal of general circulation in New York, New
York, which carries as part of its regular service notices of sale of municipal bonds. Such notice shall briefly set forth the nature of the proposed
supplemental or amendatory resolution and shall state that copies thereof
are on file at the principal office of the University for inspection by all
Noteholders. If within six months following the publication of such
notice, the holders of not less than 65% in aggregate principal amount
of the Notes outstanding at the time of the adoption of any such supplemental or amendatory resolution shall have consented in writing to the
adoption thereof, upon the adoption of such supplemental or amendatory
resolution, the Resolution shall be deemed to be amended in accordance
therewith.
ARTICLE XI
SALE OF NOTES, RESOLUTION AS CONTRACT WITH
NOTEHOLDERS AND OTHER DOCUMENTATION
Section 1101. Sale of Notes. The Notes shall be sold by the
University to the underwriters listed in the Purchase Contract (the
"Purchasers"), represented by Salomon Brothers (the "Representative"),




316               APRIL MEETING, 1982
at a purchase price of $44,513,682.50 plus accrued interest on the Notes
from May 1, 1982, to the date of delivery and payment therefor and
otherwise in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Resolution, and the official statement relating to the Notes (the "Official
Statement") dated April 16, 1982. The Official Statement, the Preliminary
Official Statement, dated April 5, 1982, and the Purchase Contract
between the University and the Representative, copies of which are on
file with the Secretary of the University and on which have been
endorsed the date of adoption of this Resolution are hereby accepted,
approved, and ratified, as the case may be substantially in the form presented to this meeting. The distribution of the Preliminary Official Statement by the Representative in connection with the marketing of the
Notes is hereby ratified and confirmed, and the distribution of the Official
Statement by the Representative in connection with the marketing of the
Notes is hereby authorized and approved.
Section 1102. Resolution Constitutes Contract. Following acceptance
by the Trustee as provided in Section 901 hereof, the provisions of the
Resolution shall constitute a contract between the University and the
Trustee for the equal and ratable benefit and protection of each Noteholder, and after delivery of the Notes, no change, variation, or alteration
of the provisions of the Resolution may be made except in accordance
with its terms.
Section 1103. Other Documentation. James F. Brinkerhoff, Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the University, Richard L.
Kennedy, Secretary of the University, Chandler W. Matthews, Controller
of the University, and Norman G. Herbert, Investment Officer, or any of
them are authorized to perform all acts and deeds and execute the Official
Statement, the Purchase Contract, and all instruments and documents for
and on behalf of the University required by the Purchase Contract, or
necessary, expedient and proper in connection with the issuance, sale and
delivery of the Notes and the accomplishment of the Note Purposes as
contemplated hereby.
ARTICLE XII
CO-PAYING AGENT
Section 1201. Designation of Co-paying Agent. Manufacturers
Hanover Trust Company, New York, New York, is hereby designated
as Co-paying Agent. The Co-paying Agent shall signify its acceptance of
the duties and obligations imposed by the Resolution by delivering a
written acceptance thereof to the University and the Trustee.
Section 1202. Replacement of Co-paying Agent. The Co-paying
Agent and any successor Co-paying Agent may at any time resign by
giving 30 days written notice to the University and the Trustee, and such
resignation shall take effect at the end of such 30 days, or upon the
earlier appointment of a successor Co-paying Agent. The Co-paying
Agent, and any successor Co-paying Agent, may be removed at any
time, by an instrument in writing delivered by the University to the
Co-paying Agent. In case the Co-paying Agent shall resign or be removed,
or be dissolved, or shall be in course of dissolution or liquidation, or
otherwise become incapable of acting hereunder, a successor may be
appointed by the University. Every such Co-paying Agent designated
pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall be a trust company or
bank in good standing, within the State of Michigan or New York, New
York or Chicago, Illinois, having a reported capital and surplus of not
less than Ten Million ($10,000,000) Dollars.




APRIL MEETING, 1982


317


ARTICLE XIII
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1301. Severability. If any one or more sections, clauses
or provisions of the Resolution shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or ineffective for any reason, such determination shall in no way affect the validity and effectiveness of the
remaining sections, clauses and provisions of the Resolutions.
Section 1302. Headings. Any headings shall be solely for convenience of reference and shall not constitute a part of the Resolution,
nor shall they affect its meaning, construction or effect.
Section 1303. Conflict. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or
other proceedings of the University in conflict herewith be and the same
are repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
Section 1304. Payments Due on Sundays and Holidays. In any
case where the date of maturity of interest on or principal of the Notes
or the date fixed for prepayment of any Notes shall be a Sunday or a
legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions are authorized by
law to close in the city in which the Trustee is located, the payment of
interest or principal may be made on the next succeeding business day
with the same force and effect as if made on the date of maturity or the
date fixed for prepayment, and no interest shall accrue for the period
after such date of maturity or date fixed for prepayment.
Section 1305. Effective Date. The Resolution shall take effect
immediately upon its adoption.
Section 1306. Notices. All notices, certificates, requests or other
communications hereunder shall be sufficiently given and shall be deemed
given when mailed by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid,
addressed as follows:
If to the University:
Regents of the University of Michigan
Investment Office
Administration Building
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109
If to the Trustee:
National Bank of Detroit
Corporate Trust Department
611 Woodward Avenue
P.O. Box 222
Detroit, Michigan 48232




MAY MEETING, 1982
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, MAY 20, 1982
The Regents met at 2:00 P.M. at the Fair Lane Conference
Center at The University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Nederlander, Power, Roach, Varner, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins
and Nelson and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Overberger,
Johnson, Acting Vice-President Jacobson, and Vice-President and
Secretary Kennedy also were present.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order and indicated that
the Medical Service Plan report would be presented later this
afternoon rather than on Friday as originally scheduled to accommodate those persons involved in the discussion.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of April 15 and 16, 1982 were
approved.
II. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on investment transactions, plant extension, litigation, personnellabor relations and the Replacement Hospital Project.
In connection with the Replacement Hospital report, Regent
Roach noted that approval to award Bid Package #11B would
occur at the July Regents' meeting. Since that meeting is to be
rescheduled to a week later, will this have a negative impact on the
scheduled progress? Regent Roach also inquired about the rationale
for the inclusion of some of the components of Bid Package 12 and
13 to Bid Package #11.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff responded that he doubted the food
service equipment was on the critical path, and he was not aware of
any particular reason for adding certain items to Bid Package #11
except to get like work out at the same time. He indicated that he
would check on these two questions and respond on Friday.
Vice-President Overberger filed' a monthly report on grants and
contracts for research.


319




320


MAY MEETING, 1982


Acting Vice-President Jacobson filed a report on the Office of
University Relations and Development.
Gifts III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from the following
sources. They were received with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions:
Allied Corporation, Morristown, New Jersey; for the Allied CorporationKrimm  fund............................................  $5,000.00
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for the American Cancer Society fund..................................  44,399.00
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois; for the following funds:
Minority Engineering Program  fund.........................  2,000.00
Minority and Female Scholarship in Engineering fund..........  3,000.00
American Ship Building Company, Lorain, Ohio; for the Naval Architecture  Campaign  Gifts fund...............................  5,000.00
Arthur Andersen & Company Foundation, Detroit; for the following
funds:
Arthur Andersen Scholarship fund..........................  2,575.00
Nicholas Arboretum Flowering Tree fund....................  25.00
Business Administration Accounting Faculty Special fund.......  100.00
Business  School fund....................................  5,947.50
Center for Near Eastern and North African Studies fund........  100.00
Civil Engineering  Special fund.............................  25.00
Electrical and Computer Engineering Special fund.............  275.00
Industrial Engineering  Gifts fund...........................  2,815.00
Kelsey  Museum  Associates fund...........................  100.00
Law   School fund........................................  425.00
School of Library  Science  fund............................  100.00
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund..............  675.00
Mechanical Engineering Special fund.......................  250.00
William A. Paton Accounting Scholarships fund..............  750.00
Paton  Center for Accounting  fund..........................  15,210.00
Program in Hospital Administration Alumni fund..............  50.00
Slavic Department Fellowship  fund.........................  750.00
W UOM    fund...........................................  100.00
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn; for the Michigan
Chapter Arthritis Foundation funds.........................  10,083.31
Atlantic Richfield Foundation, Los Angeles, California; for the following funds:
Atlantic Richfield Foundation-Biological Station Support fund..  6,000.00
Law   School fund........................................  1,800.00
School of Nursing  Alumnae fund...........................  50.00
Vital M argin  fund.......................................  50.00
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; for the Law School
fund..................................................  6,000.00
Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois; for the Leo Burnett Scholars
at M ichigan  fund........................................  18,000.00
Mrs. George G. Cameron, Ann Arbor; for the following funds:
Classical Studies Chairman's fund..........................  5,000.00
M useum   of Art  fund.....................................  10,000.00
Helen A. Campbell Estate; for the John Alexander Memorial fund... 150,000.00
Capital Cities Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for the Bob
Ufer Memorial fund.....................................  10,000.00
Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, Washington,
D.C.; for the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement Teaching
fund..................................................  6,737.78




MAY MEETING, 1982


321


Robert A. Clayton, Vero Beach, Florida; for the Robert A. Clayton
Fund, to participate in The University of Michigan Donor Pooled
Income  fund............................................  6,223.00
Conoco, Inc., Ponca City, Oklahoma; for the following funds:
Continental Oil Fellowship in Chemical Engineering fund.......  7,000.00
Geology-Mineralogy  fund.................................  3,000.00
Vital Margin  fund.......................................  50.00
James T. Wilson  Memorial fund...........................  400.00
Catherine Davis Estate; for the Barbara Davis White Memorial Scholarship  fund..............................................  15,000.00
Mildred M. Doan Revocable Trust, Detroit; for the following funds:
School of Business Administration Capital Campaign-Undesignated
fund..................................................  75,000.00
University Musical Society fund...........................  10,000.00
Dow Chemical Company, Midland; for the following funds:
Alumni Center fund......................................  1,000.00
Steel and Mildred Bailey Engineering Student Loan fund.......  500.00
Biological Station Development fund........................  425.00
Business Administration Special fund.......................  150.00
Business School fund....................................  435.00
Chemistry  Department Special fund.........................  150.00
Dow Chemical Company-D. M. Dennison fund..............   250.00
Dow Chemical Research in Metallurgical Engineering fund.....  200.00
College  of Engineering  fund...............................  1,535.00
Chemical Engineering  Special fund.........................  1,650.00
Civil Engineering  Special fund.............................  140.00
Class of 1933  Engineering  fund............................  100.00
Industrial Engineering  Gifts fund...........................  30.00
Law   School fund........................................  710.00
Law  School Alumni Scholarship fund.......................  100.00
Law School Capital Campaign-Unrestricted fund..............  500.00
School of Library  Science  fund............................  25.00
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund..............  470.00
M edical School fund.....................................  100.00
School of Nursing  fund...................................  100.00
College  of Pharmacy  fund................................  50.00
Allan F. Smith Professorship of Law fund...................  500.00
U nrestricted  fund........................................  1,330.00
Vital M argin  fund.......................................  945.00
WUOM     fund...........................................  35.00
Dow Coming Corporation, Midland; for the following funds:
Business  School fund....................................  380.00
Dow Coming-Chemical Engineering Scholarships fund........  1,500.00
College  of Engineering  fund...............................  220.00
Eye Center Ophthalmology Consolidation fund...............  5,050.00
Bob  Ufer M emorial fund.................................  10.00
Unrestricted  fund........................................  210.00
Vital  M argin  fund.......................................  90.00
Alfred White Memorial in Chemical Engineering fund.........  25.00
W U OM   fund...........................................  25.00
E. I. du Pont, de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware; for
the following funds:
du Pont Fellowship in Business Administration fund...........  6,000.00
du Pont Fundamental Research in Chemistry fund............. 12,000.00
du Pont Fundamental Research in Chemical Engineering fund... 22,000.00
du Pont Fundamental Research in Mechanical Engineering fund.. 14,000.00
Institute of Industrial Health Project 4 fund.................. 10,000.00
Macromolecular Research Center fund......................  8,000.00
Minority Engineering Program  fund.........................  8,000.00




322


MAY MEETING, 1982


Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio; for the following funds:
CRIM-Integrated Design and Manufacturing fund............ 50,000.00
Law  School fund........................................  300.00
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York; for the following
funds:
Alumni Association fund.................................  150.00
Business School fund....................................  300.00
Business School Associates Program fund...................  5,000.00
School of Education fund.................................  150.00
College  of Engineering  fund...............................  450.00
Class of 1936  Engineers fund..............................  3,000.00
Exxon Corporation Fellowship in Business Administration fund..  6,500.00
Geology-Mineralogy fund................................  750.00
Law  School fund........................................  390.00
Chester B. Slawson Memorial fund.........................  750.00
Vital Margin  fund.......................................  825.00
FMC Foundation, Chicago, Illinois; for Business Administration Graduate Fellowships and Scholarships funds.....................  8,000.00
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn; for the Solid State Industrial Affiliates
Program  fund...........................................  10,000.00
General Motors Corporation, Detroit; for the General Motors Graduate
Fellowship in Business Administration fund.................. 10,000.00
Harris Corporation, Melbourne, Florida; for the Electrical and Computer Engineering  Special fund.............................  10,000.00
Harris Foundation, Melbourne, Florida; for the following funds:
Clyde A. DeWitt Law Scholarship and Loan fund.............  300.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts fund..............  1,441.88
William A. Paton Accounting Scholarships fund..............  4,325.62
V ital  M argin  fund.......................................  25.00
J. J. Henry Company, Inc., New York, New York; for the Naval
Architecture Campaign Gifts fund..........................  5,000.00
Islamic Solidarity Fund, Jeddeh, Saudi Arabia; for the Islamic Studies
Program   fund...........................................  30,000.00
Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Corporation, Oakland, California; for
the Physical Stress Research  fund..........................  15,000.00
Kimberly-Clark Corporation, Neenah, Wisconsin; for the Antiviral
Studies-Shipman  fund....................................  8,000.00
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh; for the Forney W. Clement M emorial fund.......................................  7,570.69
Kroc Foundation, Santa Ynez, California; for the Kroc Foundation-Castor
fund..................................................  6,396.00
Norton Laird Foundation, Seattle, Washington; for the School of Natural Resources Distinguished Visitors Program fund............ 10,000.00
Lear Siegler Foundation, Santa Monica, California; for the Engineering
Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund......................  7,000.00
Manufacturing Data Systems, Incorporated, Ann Arbor; for the following funds:
0. W. Boston Research Grant-in-Aid fund...................  5,000.00
Human-Computer Interface Design Research fund.............  5,000.00
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York; for the following Andrew W. Mellon Foundation funds:
Bentley  Historical Library  fund............................  110,000.00
Bourne  fund............................................  65,000.00
Michigan Consolidated Gas Company, Detroit; for the following funds:
Electrical and Computer Engineering Special fund.............  25.00.
Geology Department Special fund..........................  200.00
Law   School fund........................................  125.00
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts fund..............  50.00
Physical Stress Research  fund.............................  15,000.00
W UO M   fund...........................................  60.00




MAY MEETING, 1982


323


Michigan Eye-Bank, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Eye-Bank fund...  11,182.00
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., Saint Paul,
Minnesota; for the Macromolecular Research Center fund.......  7,000.00
Peking American School, Delmar, New York; for the East Asian
Challenge Grant-Gifts fund...............................  7,500.00
Pfizer, Incorporated, Groton, Connecticut; for the Pfizer Fellowship in
Pharmaceutics fund......................................  17,000.00
Frank E. Robbins Memorial, Springfield, Massachusetts; for the Frank
E. Robbins Memorial Medical Scholarship fund...............  9,374.01
Raymond Schoder Charitable Foundation, Battle Creek; for the Schoder
Foundation-Cleft Palate Clinic fund........................  5,000.00
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana; for the Samuel D., Martha B.
and  Mabel I. Sledd  Loan  fund.............................  5,984.37
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York; for the Alfred P.
Sloan Foundation-Morgan  fund............................  200,000.00
Charles J. Strosacker Foundation, Midland; for the Olin W. BlackettCharles J. Strosacker Fellowship for Junior Faculty Research
fund..................................................  25,000.00
Gabriel A. Tatelis Estate; for the Nuclear Medicine Research fund... 22,500.00
Thrasher Research Fund, Salt Lake City, Utah; for the Thrasher
Research-Tait fund......................................  11,010.00
Townsend and Bottum, Inc., Ann Arbor; for the New Lecture
Hall-Biological Station  fund...............................  5,000.00
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio; for the Electrical and Computer
Engineering  Special fund.................................  15,000.00
Union Pacific Corporation, New York, New York; for the following
funds:
Business  School fund....................................  100.00
Geology-M ineralogy  fund.................................  5,175.00
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo; for the following funds:
Asian  Art Projects  fund...................................  125.00
Athletic  Scholarships fund................................  150.00
Business  School fund....................................  775.00
School of  Dentistry  fund..................................  100.00
College  of Engineering  fund...............................  350.00
Chemical Engineering  Special fund.........................  125.00
Industrial Engineering  Special fund.........................  150.00
Law   School fund........................................  100.00
Law  School Alumni Scholarship fund.......................  150.00
General Library Special Book Purchase fund.................  450.00
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund..............  375.00
M edical School fund.....................................  100.00
School of  M usic  fund....................................  150.00
Pharm acy  Special fund...................................  1,150.50
D. M aynard  Phelps  fund..................................  200.00
School of Public  Health  fund..............................  450.00
Residential College  fund..................................  75.00
Maurice H. Seevers Memorial fund.........................  200.00
Bob  Ufer M emorial fund.................................  25.00
Unrestricted  fund........................................  25.00
Vital M argin  fund.......................................  675.00
W U O M   fund...........................................  912.02
Helen K. Utley Estate; for the Stuart Wells Utley Memorial Scholarship
fund..................................................  50,000.00
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey; for the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies fund.............  8,000.00
Westlawn Corporation, East Lansing; for the Roy Ziegler Scholarship
fund..................................................  5,000.00
Roy H. Ziegler, East Lansing; for the Roy Ziegler Scholarship fund..  5,000.00




324


MAY MEETING, 1982


The following monetary, non-cash gifts were received:
Robert A. Clayton, Vero Beach, Florida. Norstar Bancorp, Inc., common stock; for the Robert A. Clayton Fund to participate in The
University of Michigan Donor Pooled Income fund............  14,583.56
Anna M. Kiiskila Estate. General Electric Company, Bendix Corporation, Facet Enterprises, Inc., Greyhound Corporation, Holly Corporation, E. F. Hutton Group, Inc., Martin Marietta Corporation,
Nabisco Brands, Inc., and U. S. Steel Corporation common stocks;
for the Law School fund.................................. 103,517.75
Arthur B. Modine Estate. Twin Disc, Incorporated, common stock;
divided as follows:
Arthur B. Modine Chair in Engineering fund................. 750,000.00
Arthur B. Modine Engineering Discretionary fund............. 482,812.50
Mr. and Mrs. Adrian W. Schmidhauser, Manama, Bahrain. Standard
Oil Company of California, common stock; for the President's
fund..................................................  21,718.75
Roberta C. Watts Estate. General Electric Company, General Telephone and Electronics Corporation, and American Telephone and
Telegraph, common stocks; for the Gaylord A. and Roberta C.
W atts Architectural Award  fund............................  17,667.56
The following non-monetary, non-cash gifts were received:
Richard Adler, Ypsilanti. Seventeen books; for The University of
Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
Lawrence I. Berove, Southfield. A book entitled: The Grandissimes,
Centennial Essays; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
Mr. and Mrs. Howard E. Bond, Ann Arbor. Seven 19th-century English and French photographs, six albumen prints and one salt
print; for the Museum of Art
Jeffrey Bonner, Ann Arbor. Four volumes of Transactions of the Ninth
International Congress of Soil Science; for The University of
Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
Arthur Buff, Lilburn, Georgia. Twelve gemstones: one aquamarine,
one kunzite, six topazes and four sapphires; for the University
Relations and Development Office, The University of MichiganFlint Campus
Mr. and Mrs. Michael J. Buford, Holland. One wooden rocking chair;
for the Burn Unit of University Hospital
Robert D. Burhans, Fredericksburg, Virginia. Nineteen of the Burhans
Collection of Antique Maps, numbers 16-21 and 23-35; for the
William L. Clements Library
J. Robert Cairns, Dearborn Heights. One copy of: The Britannica
Review of Developments in Engineering Education; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
Mr. and Mrs. David Chan, Canton. The Gaston V. Leroux sculpture,
entitled: "The Young Arab Girl," bronze, 19th Century; for the
Museum of Art
Philip J. Cook, Chapel Hill, North Carolina. The Brookings Papers on
Economic Activity, 1970-1979; for the Department of Economics
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Crowe, Lockport, New York. Fifty-five records;
for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
Frederick G. Dickason, Norristown, Pennsylvania. 767 mounted specimens of Burmese ferns; for the University of Michigan Herbarium
Paul W. Duemler, Ann Arbor. Two tickets to the February 13, 1982,




MAY MEETING, 1982                           325
performance of "Time of Your Life;" for the Professional Theatre
Program
Barbara Dyko, Fowlerville. 150 clay pots in assorted sizes; for the
Botanical Gardens
Patricia K. Edgecomb, Boyne Falls. 233 specimens of Colorado insects, mounted and labelled; for the Museum of Zoology
Avery Z. Eliscu, Winnetka, Illinois. Four African wood sculptures:
"Ibo" (Nigeria), "Baga" (Sierra Leone), "Nupe" (Nigeria),
"Banwa-Bamoum" and wool a Navajo rug; for the Museum
of Art
Dr. and Mrs. Leo Figiel, Detroit; Dr. Steven J. Figiel, Detroit. 10
paintings, 11 folk bronzes, and 11 sculptures all Indian works; for
the Museum of Art
Peter B. Frantz, Essexville. An autographed letter from Admiral Sir
Richard Howe to Captain Hammond, London, June 22, 1767; for
the William L. Clements Library
Charles V. Gagliardi, Ann Arbor. Two tickets to the February 13,
1982, performance of "Time of Your Life"; for the Professional
Theatre Program
James Gauthier, Dearborn. Thirty-one books and twenty pamphlets; for
The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
Raymond J. Geitka, Royal Oak. A book entitled: Data Security and
Data Processing, and the 1969-1981 issues of the Journal of
Systems Management; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn
Campus Library
General Motors Research Laboratories, General Motors Corporation,
Warren. A Chromatix model 1000 Neodymium Yag Laser; for the
Harrison M. Randall Laboratory of the Physics Department
Judith Heady, Detroit. A book entitled: Introduction to Embryology, by
B. I. Balinsky; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus
Library
Mrs. Robert Healy, Chicago, Illinois. Three very old published works
(1771, 1774, and 1813); for the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Mr. and Mrs. Harry Jacobs, Southfield. Seven works of art: Renoir's
"Girls on the Beach," Soyer's "Woman With Plant," Chagall's
"From Maternity Series," McCormick's "Joel with Guitar," and
three Indian miniatures; for the Museum of Art
Ron Jaworski, Whitmore Lake. Two South American Indian ceremonial objects; for the Museum of Anthropology
Edgar A. Kahn, Ann Arbor. A wall picture; for the C.S. Mott Hospital
Noriko Kamachi, Ann Arbor. A book entitled: Reform in China: Huang
Tsun-Hsien and the Japanese Model, by Noriko Kamachi; for The
University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
Dolores Kern, Southfield. 35 books; for The University of MichiganDearborn Campus Library
Edward J. Klopp, Jr., Battle Creek. Approximately 1,669 books, journals, indices, brochures and bulletins; for the Department of Internal Medicine, Pulmonary Division
Mary T. LaMore, Deland, Florida. A Sculptural piece entitled: "Magnetic Force," by Professor Chet LaMore; for the School of Art
Neil Leighton, Flint. A book entitled: The Zero Sum Society, by Lester
Thurow; for the University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
John A. M. Lyon, Ann Arbor. Volumes 14-18 and 31 of: Proceedings
of the American Power Conferences; for the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Carl W. Melcher, San Diego, California. Eleven photographs by Robert Doisneau, and 10 photographs by Alen MacWeeney; for the
Museum of Art
Leo W. Mericle, Longmount, Colorado. Volumes 1-70 of the Journal




326


MAY MEETING, 1982


of Radiation Research; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Biology Department
Horace M. Miner, Ann Arbor. A ninety-year-old Tapa; for the Museum
of Anthropology
Mother Earth, Ann Arbor. Two hundred clay pots in different sizes and
shapes; for the Botanical Gardens
James R. Murphy, Bloomfield Hills. One Mediterranean Fan Windmill
palm plant; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus
Library
John Onodi, Allen Park. A portfolio of ten Karel Appel color lithographs, entitled: "Ten by Appel"; for The University of MichiganDearborn Campus Library
PCB Piezotronics, Inc., DePew, New York. An impulse hammer kit
and an accelerometer with adhesive base; for the Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Nan Pendrell, New York, New York. A book entitled: Nam by Mark
Baker; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Peoples Bank and Trust Company, Trenton. An IBM 370 Computer,
complete with manuals; for the Head Protection Research Laboratory, University Hospital
Philip Peter, Dearborn. A two-volume work, entitled: The Life and
Work of Cipriani Potter; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn
Campus Library
Richard W. Roehl, Dearborn. A book entitled: An Historical Essay on
Modern Spain, by Richard Herr; for The University of MichiganDearborn Campus Library
Sandra Ruhmann, Flat Rock. A book entitled: Children and Literature:
Views and Reviews, by Virginia Haviland; for The University of
Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
John A. Ryan, Grand Rapids. An American Cystoscope Makers Division of American Hospital Supply Corporation, gift certificate; for
the Department of Urology
Bettina Schwimmer, Chicago, Illinois. A Peruvian lime stick with two
birds, bone, Chancay culture, ca. 1000-1200 A.D.; for the Museum
of Art
Marjorie C. Shannon, Ann Arbor. Eighteen prints of Wildflowers; for
the C. S. Mott Hospital Schools
Katharine H. Smithies, Belmont, Massachusetts. Sixty-three books; for
the Department of Economics
Tektronix, Incorporated, Farmington Hills. Thirteen 7000/5000 series
plug-in units; for the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering
Paul K. Trojan, Ann Arbor. A book entitled: Engineering Materials
and Their Applications, by Paul Trojan; for The University of
Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
F. Karel Wiest, Detroit. One Ethiopian Gospel manuscript, eight objects of Chinese bronze and jade, one Han Dynasty dish, and an
Afghan (Gandara) Head of Buddha; for the Museum of Art
Robert Wilson, Dearborn. A 1981 Hubbell Martindale Law Directory;
for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Library
Victor K. Wong, Ann Arbor. A book entitled: Introductory Quantum
Mechanics, by Richard L. Liboff; for The University of MichiganDearborn Campus Library




MAY MEETING, 1982


327


IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS                                                       Personal Actions
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                         Appointments
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Burton R. Benjamin, A.B., appointed Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor of
Journalism, April 5 to 16, 1982
Joseph P. Cosand, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach a one-week seminar in the
School of Education from June 7 through June 11, 1982
Reed O. Dingman, Professor Emeritus, appointed Acting Head of the Section of
Plastic Surgery, April 15, 1982
Victor M. Hawthorne, M.D., appointed Professor of Epidemiology in the Department of Family Practice, without tenure, May 1, 1982 (also holds title of
Professor and Chairman, Department of Epidemiology, with tenure, School of
Public Health)
Lorna M. Haywood, Associate of the Royal College of Music, appointed Professor
of Music, without tenture, September 1982
Donald Mclnnes, M. Music, appointed Professor of Music, with tenure, September,
1982
Ruggiero Ricci, appointed Professor of Music, with tenure, September, 1982
Dennis Rigan, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Department of Physical
Education, Fall Term, 1982
William B. Taylor, Professor Emeritus, appointed to active status in the Department
of Dermatology, July 1, 1982
Frederick H. Wagman, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Fall Term, 1982
and Spring half-term, 1983, September 1, 1982
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                     Promotions, etc.
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on September 1, 1982, unless otherwise indicated
Donald R. Anderson, Professor of Political Science, UM-Dearborn, appointed Acting Chairman of the Department of Social Sciences, July 1, 1982 through June
30, 1983.
James N. Cather, Professor of Biological Sciences, with tenure, appointed Associate
Dean for Curriculum and Administration in the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts, for a three-year term, September 1, 1982
Virgil W. Cope, Associate Professor of Chemistry, appointed Chairman of the
Chemistry Department, UM-Flint, for a three-year term, July 1, 1982
William R. Dawson, Professor of Biological Sciences, with tenure, appointed
Director of the Museum of Zoology, for a three-year term, July 1, 1982
Charles E. M. Dunlop, Associate Professor of Philosophy, appointed Chairman of
the Philosophy Department, UM-Flint, for a three-year term, July 1, 1982
Hani I. Fakhouri, Professor of Sociology/Anthropology and Urban Studies, appointed Chairman of the Sociology/Anthropology Department, UM-Flint, for a
three-year term, July 1, 1982
Eugene N. Feingold, Professor of Medical Care Organization, reappointed Associate
Dean of the Graduate School, June 1, 1982 through June 30, 1984
David M. Gates, Professor of Biological Sciences, with tenure, reappointed Director
of the Biological Station, July 1, 1982 through August 31, 1983
John R. Griffith, Professor of Hospital Administration and Chairman of the Department of Hospital Administration, term as chairman extended to August 31,
1982
Roland G. Hiss, Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education, and Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, appointed Chairman of the
Department of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education, June
1, 1982




328


MAY MEETING, 1982


Philip D. Gingerich, Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure,
Associate Curator in the Museum of Paleontology, and Director of the Museum
of Paleontology, also appointed Associate Professor of Biological Sciences,
June 1982
Lawrence W. Jones, Professor of Physics, with tenture, appointed Chairman of the
Department of Physics for a five-year term, July 1, 1982
Larry King, Associate Professor of Mathematics, appointed Acting Associate Dean
of the College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, May 1, 1982 through August
31, 1982 and half-time September 1, 1982 through April 30, 1983
Robert Paul Kirshner, Associate Professor of Astronomy, appointed Chairman of the
Department of Astronomy, for a five-year term July 1, 1982
Renate McLaughlin, Professor of Mathematics, appointed Chairperson of the Mathematics Department, UM-Flint, for a three-year term, July 1, 1982
Henry Nathan Pollack, Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, appointed
Associate Dean for Research, College of Litertature, Science, and the Arts for a
three-year term, July 1, 1982
William E. Porter, Professor of Communications, appointed Chairman of the Department of Communications, June 1, 1982 through June 30, 1984
Eric S. Rabkin, Professor of English, appointed Interim Director of the English
Language Institute and Interim Chairman of the Department of Linguistics for a
tew-year term, September 1, 1982
Richard E. Sonntag, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
appointed Chairman of the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics, July 1, 1982
Susan Steckel, Associate Professor of Nursing, appointed Associate Dean for Administration in the School of Nursing for a three-year term, July 1, 1982
Thomas J. Switzer, Associate Professor of Education, reappointed Associate Dean
of the School of Education, July 1, 1982 through June 30, 1983
Kenneth Warner, Associate Professor of Health Planning and Administration, appointed Chairman of the Department of Health Planning and Administration,
September 1, 1982 through June 30, 1985
Howard S. Zukerman, Assistant Professor of Hospital Administration, appointed
Chairman of the Department of Hospital Administration and Director of the
Bureau of Hospital Administration, September 1, 1982 through June 30, 1986
SCHOOL OF ART
Alfred F. Hinton, from Associate Professor to Professor of Art, with tenure
Denis C. Lee, from Associate Professor to Professor of Art, with tenure (also
recommended to Professor of Medical and Biological Illustration, with tenure,
School of Medicine)
Myra G. Larson, from Associate Professor to Professor of Art, with tenture
SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
E. Han Kim, from Associate Professor to Professor of Finance, with tenture
Robert Libby, from Associate Professor to Professor of Accounting, with tenure
Claes G. Fornell, Associate Professor of Marketing, awarded tenure
C. K. Prahalad, Associate Professor of Policy and Control, awarded tenure
F. Brian Talbot, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Policy and
Control, without tenure
SCHOOL"OF DENTISTRY
Bruce E. Bradley, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dentistry, with
tenure
Wayne Nielsen Colquitt, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dentistry,
with tenture
Dennis Edward Lopatin, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dentistry,
without tenure (also holds title Associate Research Scientist, Dental Research
Institute
Richard Martin Zillich, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dentistry,
with tenture




MAY MEETING, 1982


329


SCHOOL OF EDUCATION
Don K. Harrison, from Associate Professor to Professor of Education, with tenure
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Robert F. Beck, from Associate Professor to Professor of Navel Architecture and
Marine Engineering, with tenure
Philip A. Meyers, from Associate Professor to Professor of Oceanic Science, with
tenure
Michael G. Parsons, from Associate Professor to Professor of Naval Architecture
and Marine Engineering, with tenure
Donald J. Patterson, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure
Kensall D. Wise, from Associate Professor to Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, with tenure
Erdogan Gulari, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure
John P. Boyd, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Atmospheric and
Oceanic Science, without tenure
Dean F. Peterson, III, Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
awarded tenure
LAW SCHOOL
Christina B. Whitman, from Associate Professor to Professor of Law, with tenure
Michael Rosenzweig, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Law,
without tenure
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE AND THE ARTS
William B. Alexander, from Associate Professor to Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure
Hugh Duncan Aller, from Associate Professor to Professor of Astronomy, with
tenure
Igor V. Dolgachev, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics, with
tenure
Robert Paul Kirshner, from Associate Professor to Professor of Astronomy, with
tenure (also holds the title Director, McGraw-Hill Observatory
William M. Mason, from Associate Professor and Associate Research Scientist to
Professor of Sociology, with tenure and Research Scientist, Population Studies
Center
Michael D. Morris, from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Jeffrey Paige, from Associate Professor to Professor of Sociology, with tenure
Robert B. Payne, from Associate Professor and Associate Curator to Professor of
Biological Sciences, with tenure, and Curator in the Museum of Zoology
Joseph P. Marino, from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Jeffrey B. Rauch, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
J. Mills Thornton III, from Associate Professor to Professor of History, with tenure
Louise A. Tilly, from Associate Professor to Professor of History, with tenure
John H. Vandermeer, from Associate Professor to Professor of Biological Sciences,
with tenure
Hermann F. Weiss, from Associate Professor to Professor of Germanic Languages
and Literatures, with tenure
Roy Clarke, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure
Mary E. Corcoran, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Political
Science, with tenure, (also holds title Associate Research Scientist in the
Department of Political Science)
Kenneth J. DeWoskin, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Far
Eastern Languages and Literatures, with tenure
Fred H. Hoppe, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Statistics, with
tenure




330


MAY MEETING, 1982


Gayl Jones, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English Language
and Literature, with tenure
Daniel Harris Levine, from Associate Professor to Professor of Political Science,
with tenure
Hazel Markus, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, with
tenure, (also holds the title Assistant Research Scientist in Group Dynamics)
Walter Mignolo, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, with tenure
Philip Myers, from Assistant Professor and Assistant Curator to Associate Professor
of Biological Sciences and Associate Curator in the Museum of Zoology, with
tenure
Donna Jo Napoli, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Linguistics,
with tenure
Thomas E. Toon, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure
Robert Lyons Danly, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Far Eastern
Languages and Literature, with tenure
Daniel L. Rubinfeld, from Associate Professor of Economics and Associate Professor of Economics and Law to Professor of Economics, with tenure, and
Professor of Economics and Law, without tenure
MEDICAL SCHOOL
William E. Burke, from Associate Professor to Professor of Anatomy and Cell
Biology, with tenure
Donald K. MacCallum, from Associate Professor to Professor of Anatomy and Cell
Biology, with tenure, (also holds title Associate Professor of Dentistry)
James A. McNamara, Jr., from Associate Professor to Professor of Anatomy and
Cell Biology, with tenure
Allan C. D. Brown, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, without tenure
Paul R. Knight, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology,
with tenure
William R. Folk, from Assistant Professor to Professor of Biological Chemistry,
with tenure
Jairam K. M. Menon, from Associate Professor to Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure (also holds title of Professor of Biological Chemistry, in the
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure
Anita H. Payne, from Associate Professor to Professor of Biological Chemistry,
without tenure, (also holds title of Professor of Biological Chemistry, with
tenure, in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology
William D. Ensminger, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and Associate
Professor of Pharmacology to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and
Professor of Pharmacology, without tenure
David H. Humes, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure
David R. Dantzker, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, awarded tenure
Roger J. Grekin, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, awarded tenure
Beverly S. Mitchell, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, awarded tenure
Otelio S. Randall, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, awarded tenure
Richard D. Swartz, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure
Richard H. Wheeler, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure
Kenneth S. Zukerman, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure
Garth W. Jones, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Microbiology
and Immunology, with tenure
James W. Albers, Associate Professor of Neurology, awarded tenure, (also holds
title Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, without
tenure)




MAY MEETING, 1982


331


Anne B. Young, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Neurology, with
tenure
Mel L. Barclay, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, without tenure
Barry C. England, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Reproductive
Biology, with tenure
W. John Judd, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Medical Technology, with tenure
Kenneth D. McClatchey, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure (also holds title Assistant Professor of Dentistry)
Joseph A. Regezi, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Oral Pathology, without tenure (also holds title Professor, with tenure, in the School of
Dentistry)
MacDonald Dick II, Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
awarded tenure
Robert P. Erickson, from Associate Professor to Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure (also holds title of Professor of Human
Genetics, without tenure)
Marshall H. Becker, from Associate Professor to Professor of Health Behavior,
without tenure, in the Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
(also holds title Professor of Health Behavior with tenure, in the School of
Public Health)
Albert P. Rocchini, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, with tenure
Jess G. Thoene, Associate Professor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
awarded tenure
Golder N. Wilson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, with tenure
Ronald W. Holz, Associate Professor of Pharmacology, awarded tenure
Tetsufumi Ueda, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pharmacology,
without tenure (also holds title Associate Professor of Pharmacology, without
tenure, in the Department of Psychiatry)
Fred J. Karsch, from Associate Professor to Professor of Physiology, with tenure
Wayne K. Davis, from Associate Professor to Professor of Postgraduate Medicine
and Health Professions Education, with tenure (also holds title Associate
Professor, without tenure, in the School of Nursing)
Barbara C. Hansen, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physiology,
without tenure, (also holds title Professor of Nursing, with tenure)
Denis C. Lee, from Associate Professor of Medical and Biological Illustration and
Associate Professor of Art to Professor of Medical and Biological Illustrations,
with tenure, and recommended to Professor of Art, with tenure (also holds title
Assistant Professor of Medical Plastic Surgery Sculpture)
Michael Feinberg, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychiatry,
without tenure
Kyung J. Cho, from Associate Professor to Professor of Radiology, with tenure
Marco A. Amendola, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiology,
without tenure
Ananias C. Diokno, from Associate Professor to Professor of Surgery, with tenure
John W. Konnak, from Associate Professor to Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Frederic E. Eckhauser, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery,
with tenure
John R. Wesley, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Howard G. Rush, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Laboratory
Animal Medicine, with tenure
SCHOOL OF MUSIC
William Albright, from Associate Professor to Professor of Music, with tenure
Louis B. Nagel, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music, with
tenure
H. Dennis Smith, Associate Professor of Music, awarded tenure




332


MAY MEETING, 1982


SCHOOL OF NURSING
Sylvia S. Hacker, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Nursing, with
tenure (also holds title Assistant Professor in School of Public Health)
COLLEGE OF PHARMACY
Martha L. Hyneck, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pharmacy,
with tenure
SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Graham Kalton, Professor of Biostatistics, awarded tenure (also holds title Research
Scientist, Survey Research Center, Institute of Social Research)
George B. Simmons, from Associate Professor to Professor of Population and
Health Planning, with tenure
Robert A. Wolfe, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biostatistics,
with tenure
Howard S. Zuckerman, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Hospital
Administration with tenure (also holds title Associate Director of the Bureau of
Hospital Administration)
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN-DEARBORN
Gerald T. Gardner, from Associate Professor to Professor of Psychology, with
tenure
Ronald P. Morash, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics, with
tenure
Victor K. Wong, from Associate Professor to Professor of Physics, with tenure
Richard Adler, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology, with
tenure
Christopher C. Dahl, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English,
with tenure
John F. Devlin, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, with
tenure
James Gruber, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Sociology, with
tenure
Marilynn Rosenthal, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Sociology,
with tenure
Thomas E. Snabb, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics,
with tenure
Barbara B. Murray, Associate Professor of Business Administration, awarded tenure
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN-FLINT
Beula E. Blum, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music, with
tenure
Fredrica K. Bartz, from Associate Professor to Professor of English, with tenure
Peter R. Gluck, from Associate Professor to Professor of Political Science, with
tenure
L. Nathan Oaklander, from Associate Professor to Professor of Philosophy, with
tenure
Sue W. Peterson, from Associate Professor to Professor of Education, with tenure
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR
Uma A. Pandit, Anesthesiology
Grant J. Anhalt, Dermatology
Richard P. Sorkin, Internal Medicine
James R. Stewart, Internal Medicine
Stephen J. Weiss, Internal Medicine
John L, Kemink, Otorhinolaryngology
Joseph C. Fantone III, Pathology




MAY MEETING, 1982


333


Neelam B. Kumar, Pathology
Steven L. Kunkel, Pathology
Carl L. Pierson, Pathology
Raymond S. Kandt, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Neurology
Judith G. Calhoun, Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education
Stephen C. Cook, Psychiatry
Howard D. Learner, Psychiatry
Richard A. Bowerman, Radiology
Mark H. Jaffe, Radiology
Robert W. Crosby, Nursing
Patricia J. Hunsicker, Nursing
Sue V. W. Fink, Nursing
Cecilia J. Trudeau, Nursing
Terry M. VanderBosch, Nursing
Mary Periard, Nursing, UM-Flint
The following committee appointments were approved                        ommittee
Appointments
College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, Executive Committee
Dr. Vincent C. O'Keeffe, for a three-year term, July 1, 1982 through June 30, 1985,
vice Dr. Harry Blecker, term expired
Dr. Nallapu N. Reddy, for a three-year term, July 1, 1982 through June 30, 1985,
vice Dr. Anita Hochster, term expired
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Executive Committee
Professor Carl Gans, for a three-year term, July 1, 1982 through June 30, 1985, vice
Professor Henry Pollack, term expired
Professor William Rosenberg, for a three-year term, July 1, 1982 through June 30,
1985, vice Professor Albert Feuerwerker, term expired
Professor Albert Feuerwerker, for a one-year term, July 1, 1982 through June 30,
1983, vice Professor William Rosenberg, on leave
Museum of Art, Executive Committee
Professor Christine V. Bronstein, for a two year term, July 1, 1982 through June 30,
1984, vice Professor Clifton Olds, resigned from the University
School of Music, Executive Committee
Professor Lynne Bartholomew, for a three-year term, July 1, 1982 through June 30,
1985, vice Professor Charles Fisher, term expired
Professor John Mohler, for a three-year term, July 1, 1982 through June 30, 1985,
vice Professor Donald Sinta, term expired
College of Pharmacy, Executive Committee
Professor Martha L. Hyneck, for a three-year term, July 1, 1982 through June 30,
1985, vice Professor Gordon L. Flynn, term expired
School of Public Health, Executive Committee
Professor Scott Simonds, for a three-year term, September 1, 1982 through August
31, 1985, Vice Professor Irene Butter, term expired
Professor Bonnie Kay, for a three-year term, September 1, 1982 through August 31,
1985, vice Professor John Wheeler, term expired
With respect to the annual promotions list, Regent Power noted           Re:Lack of omen
that although there is a significant increase in female undergraduate
and graduate student enrollments in certain areas, there has been
little or no increase in women faculty members other than lecturer
or part-time positions, which excludes them from the tenured track.
This situation suggests that the University is not aggressively seeking
women at the assistant and associate professor level. It is possible




334


MAY MEETING, 1982


that the lack of role models at the University will be a serious
deterrent to female students in the future. To address this situation,
Regent Power suggested that while it would take time to build up a
data pool, some means should be found to bring women who are
prominent in certain areas to the University for limited appointments.
She requested a breakdown by sex and minorities of the 1980-81
annual promotion list, and asked that this accompany the annual
promotion list each year.
President Shapiro noted that the affirmative action report will
deal explicitly with these factors school by school. It is unfortunate
that budgetary problems have not permitted an expansion in faculty
commensurate with the increase in student enrollment in the College
of Engineering.
Leaves of Absence  The Regents approved extension of leaves of absence for Hiroko
Pijanowski, Assistant Professor of Jewelry and Metalsmithing in
the School of Art; Robert M. Warner, Professor of Library Science;
Martha M. Binford, Associate Professor of Anthropology, University
of Michigan-Dearborn; and William Linn, Associate Professor of
Rhetoric and English Composition, University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Personnel Reports  V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
Appointments    The following personnel reports were received by the Regents
NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 1, 1982 unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Edith C. Morrison, Ph.D., Dentistry, April 9, 1982
Instructor
Edward Loughman, M.B., B.S., Anesthesiology, April 1, 1982
Visiting Professor
Ronald J. Allen, J.D., Law, May 27, 1982
John I. Dalland, Ph.D., Psychology, January 1, 1982
Shinichi Kamiyama, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, March
23, 1982
Nitin Ratilal Patel, Ph.D., Industrial and Operations Engineering
Daniel D. Polsby, J.D., Law, May 27, 1982
Robert L. Smalley, Ph.D., Physical Education, April 1, 1982
Bernard Wolfman, J.D., Law, May 27, 1982
Visiting Associate Professor
Alan Reinstein, M.B.A., Management, UM-Dearborn
Peter Tiessen, Ph.D., Accounting
Adjunct Professor
Felix A. de la lglesia, M.D., Toxicology
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Norman Stewart, M.F.A., Art




MAY MEETING, 1982


335


Clinical Instructor
James A. Bedor, D.D.S., Dentistry
John G. Clinthome, D.D.S., Dentistry
Dalbert W. Fear, Jr., D.D.S., Dentistry
James R. Giordano, D.D.S., Dentistry
Jeffrey W. Johnston, D.D.S., Dentistry
Thomas D. Jusino, D.D.S., Dentistry
Peter W. Lazarchuk, D.D.S., Dentistry
John McGovern, D.D.S. Dentistry, February 1, 1982
Donald A. Restauri, Jr., D.D.S., Dentistry
Kevin M. Sloan, D.D.S., Dentistry
James M. Somers, D.D.S., Dentistry
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                     Promotions, etc.
Effective on January 1, 1982, unless otherwise indicated
Ziona Kopelovich-Hanash, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Near Eastern
Studies
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS                        Resignations
Effective April 30, 1982, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Brian M. Becher, Biophysics, UM-Dearborn
Bobbie Bloch, Nursing, April 18, 1982
Roger R. Dube, Physics, UM-Dearborn
William P. Kovalak, Biology, UM-Dearborn
James M. Nichols, Spanish, UM-Dearborn
Clinical Instructor
Howard A. Hamerink, Dentistry
Two off campus assignments, one sabbatical leave, and one               Leaves of Absence
extended sick leave of absence were reported to the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Secretary Kennedy reported the retirement of nineteen faculty
members. The following retirement memoirs were adopted.
ROBERT WILLIAM ADAMS, Professor of International Business retired from   R.w. Adams
active faculty status as of April 30, 1982, after a productive career as an economist,  Retirement
teacher and administrator.
A native of Indiana, Professor Adams earned a B.S. degree from Northwestern
University in 1940 where he was Pi Beta Kappa. After wartime service in the U.S.
Navy, he entered the doctoral program in economics at MIT. He was awarded his
Ph.D. there in 1951.
Professor Adams was an economist with Exxon's economics department from
1946-1965. He rose to become manager of Exxon's economics department, a
position he held for 10 years. In 1965, he was appointed Professor of International
Business at The University of Michigan.
During his 16 years at Michigan, Professor Adams played a major role in
developing the new Program in International Business to a point where it is recognized as one of the leading such programs in the nation. He served as administrator
of the Program under a grant from the Ford Foundation recruiting a strong faculty,
developing the curriculum, and chairing numerous Ph.D. committees.
Professor Adams' other contributions include service on School, University,




336


MAY MEETING, 1982


State and National Committees relating to international business and Michigan's role
therein. He was also director of the Institute for International Commerce established
by the State of Michigan at the School. In this capacity he directed a program of
research and seminars for Michigan business to aid in their international activities.
He also edited two books on the international business involvement of Michigan
firms.
The Regents now salute this distinguished international business educator by
naming him Professor Emeritus of International Business.
J. A. Bolt   JAY A. BOLT, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, retires at the end of
Retirement  1981-82 academic year. This represents the end of a teaching career that has spanned
forty-four years, thirty-five of which have been with the University of Michigan.
Professor Bolt graduated with a BSME from Michigan State University in 1934.
He has MS, MME and ME degrees from Purdue University, Chrysler Institute and
Michigan State University respectively. Only the Second World War could interrupt
his teaching career, when, from 1941 to 1947, he was Director of Aircraft Carburetor Research at Bendix Corporation. His work for Bendix laid the foundation for
his present reputation as one of the world's leading experts in fuel-air mixture
preparation for both gasoline and diesel engines. His contributions in this area won
him the Horning Memorial Award of the Society of Automotive Engineers in 1972.
Professor Bolt's achievements have earned him international respect. He is a
member of the British Institution of Mechanical Engineers, as well as the American
Society. In 1977 the Society of Automotive Engineering introduced the Fellow grade
of membership. At that time SAE had 31,000 members representing many disciplines. Professor Bolt was unanimously elected a Fellow. Only twenty-two members
received this accolade, for "exceptional individual contributions to the advancement
of automotive technology".
One of Professor Bolt's attributes in teaching in his attention to clarity of
presentation of both the spoken and written word. His abilities in this area won him,
in 1967, the Arch T. Colwell Award for outstanding contribution to literature.
In recognition of this distinguished educator and researcher the Regents now
salute Jay A. Bolt for his dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of
Mechanical Engineering.
A.F. Conard    ALFRED F. CONARD, Henry M. Butzel Professor of Law, is retiring from
Retirement  active faculty status as of May 31, 1982, after a dedicated career of teaching and
research.
Professor Conard was born in Grinnell, Iowa, in 1911. He recieved his A.B.
from Grinnell College in 1932, his LL.B. from the University of Pennsylvania in
1936, and his LL.M. and S.J.D. degrees from Columbia University in 1939 and
1942. His career as a practicing lawyer included private practice in Philadelphia
from 1937 to 1938, service with the Office of Price Administration from 1942 to
1943, and service with the Office of the Alien Property Custodian from 1945 to
1946. He also served his country with the OSS from 1943 to 1945.
Professor Conard's teaching career began at the University of Kansas City,
where he taught from 1939 to 1942 and was Acting Dean from 1941 to 1942. He
later taught at the University of Illinois from 1946 to 1954, and has taught at the
University of Michigan since 1954. In 1974 he was named Henry M. Butzel
Professor of Law.
Professor Conard's scholarly career has spanned many diverse fields, in each of
which he has made his mark as a great scholar and seminal thinker. His classic study
of Automobile Accident Costs and Payments (1964), in collaboration with Professor
James Morgan of this University, paved the way for the "no-fault" compensation
movement. In the comparative law sphere, his works have been translated into
several languages, he served as Editor-in-Chief of the American Journal of Comparative Law from 1968 to 1971, and he has since served as Chief Editor of Volume 13
of the International Encyclopedia of Comparative Law. He has taught in many areas
at the Law School, and has been a mainstay in the field of business organizations.
His casebook in Enterprise Organization is the proud result of several editions in
collaboration with former members of the Law School faculty. His many articles in all
these fields, far too abundant to list, have been widely acclaimed and highly influential.




MAY MEETING, 1982


337


Professor Conard has been honored nationally and internationally. He was
President of the Association of American Law Schools in 1971, and has been a
Visiting Professor at the Salzburg Seminar in American Studies and the holder of a
Guggenheim Fellowship.
Generations of students and faculty colleagues have come to know Professor
Conard as an exemplary teacher in all that he does, in the classroom, in his writing,
and in his daily associations.
The Regents now salute this accomplished scholar and educator for his long
service to the University of Michigan by naming him Henry M. Butzel Professor
Emeritus of Law.
HANSFORD W. FARRIS, Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, will  H.w. Farris
retire from active faculty status as of May 31, 1982. Professor Farris has been a  Retirement
distinguished and highly respected teacher in the College of Engineering for many
years and has also provided distinguished service to the University by serving, on
numerous occasions, in various important administrative roles.
Professor Farris is a native of Kentucky. He received his first degree, B.S. (Math
and Physics), at Eastern Kentucky State College in 1941. He then received a degree,
M.A. (Education and Math), at the same institution in 1942. In 1948 he received the
M.S.E. (EE) at the University of Illinois, and in 1958 he received the Ph.D. (EE) at
the University of Michigan. Professor Farris joined the Department of Electrical
Engineering in 1953 as a Research Associate with the Electronics Defense Group,
currently designated at the Cooley Electronics Laboratory. Five years after this
initial appointment, he received the Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan.
He was appointed Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering in 1958 and, at the
same time, Director of the Cooley Electronics Laboratory. From 1963 to 1965, he
was Associate Director of the U of M Institute of Science and Technology and
served as the first Director of its Industrial Development Division.
Professor Farris was promoted to Associate Professor in 1959 and Professor in
1962. He served as Chairman of the Department of Electrical Engineering from 1965
to 1968. He then assumed the position of Associate Dean of the College of
Engineering and held this position for five years with general responsibility for the
research programs of the College of Engineering. One of his major contributions in
this capacity was to initiate the College's Instructional Television System, which has
been of great service to students at remote industrial locations within the State of
Michigan.
Twice during his career, Professor Farris served as Acting Dean of the College
of Engineering. His most recent term as Acting Dean began in July 1980 and
terminated in June 1981.
As a teacher, Professor Farris has, on numerous occasions, been honored with
awards. He received the Outstanding Teacher Award of Eta Kappa Nu in 1961-62.
He received the Amoco Outstanding Teacher Award for Outstanding Teaching of
Undergraduates in 1976. His alma mater, Eastern Kentucky State University, conferred upon him the Distinguished Alumnus Citation in 1974.
During his university career, Professor Farris served on numerous committees
throughout the University, College and Department. He has been especially active
during his career with university-industrial relations and has made many contributions in this area.
Professor Farris has served the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers in
many official capacities, ranging from the Chairmanship of Southeastern Michigan
Section, to National Chairman of the National Electronics Conference, and of the
Educational Activities Board.
Professor Farris has written numerous publications, primarily in the area of
instructional and motivational aspects in engineering. He is a well-known, talented
speaker and has, on many occasions, made invited presentations throughout the
country. In his almost thirty years of service with the University of Michigan,
Professor Farris has had a distinguished career in teaching and scholarly activities.
He has made many valuable contributions to the University in all phases of its
activities. It should be especially noted that he was a distinguished teacher, beloved
by his students and highly regarded by his colleagues. He will be greatly missed by
this University.




338


MAY MEETING, 1982


In recognition of this distinguished educator and researcher the Regents now
salute Hansford W. Farris for his dedicated service by naming him Professor
Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering.
J.R. Frederick  JULIAN ROSS FREDERICK, Professor of Mechanical Engineering retires from
etirem the University of Michigan at the end of the 1981-1982 academic year. He was
associated very closely with the pioneering work in ultra-sonic technology and added
many significant contributions to the field throughout his career.
Professor Frederick was born in Sioux Fall, South Dakota in 1913. He obtained
the bachelors degree and masters degree in Physics at Iowa State University in 1935
and 1936. In 1948 he received the Ph.D. in Physics from the University of
Michigan. He then spent three years as an Assistant Professor in the Department of
Physics at Brown University. However, Professor Firestone attracted him back to the
University of Michigan for some very important work in the transmission of acoustic
waves in the ocean. He was a research associate in physics for seven years. In that
time he was also working on the detection of cracks in metals in the Department of
Production Engineering. When the latter department merged with the Department of
Mechanical Engineering, Professor Frederick was added to the faculty as an Assistant Professor, and he has risen through the ranks to that of Professor in 1970.
During his years at the University, Professor Frederick has become an international authority on acoustics, acoustic emission and crack detection by ultra-sonic
methods. He sponsored doctoral students and guided funded research for all of these
years in these subjects. He was active in various technical societies at both the
national and international levels in ASME and ASM and was a founding member of
the American Society of Nondestrictive Testing. He was a consultant to a wide range
of industries and government agencies including the nuclear regulatory commission.
Professor Frederick was a friendly, sympathetic and very helpful advisor to many
students and colleagues. His pioneering efforts in acoustics are well known and his
contributions to the advancements to professional societies is widely appreciated.
His cooperative spirit and inquiring mind has served as an example to all those
around him and he has been a steady proponent of the excellence of the University
of Michigan.
In recognition of this distinguished educator and researcher the Regents now
salute Julian Ross Frederick for his dedicated service by naming him Professor
Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering.
H.P. Galliher  HERBERT P. GALLIHER, Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering,
Retirement  will retire from active faculty status as of May 31, 1982.
Professor Galliher was educated at Yale University, where he obtained his
Bachelors, Master's and Doctoral degrees in Mathematics and Mathematical Logic.
After serving on the Mathematics faculty at New Haven State Teachers College,
then at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, in 1956 he became a member of the
Operations Research Center at M.I.T., where he served as Associate Director until
1963. At that time he came to The University of Michigan as Professor of Industrial
Engineering, a position he held until his retirement.
He was responsible for teaching and developing courses in inventory and production, stochastic processes and mathematical modelling, and served in a variety of
administrative positions.
He is recognized as one of the founders of the field of Operations Research. His
contributions span a range of applications: he developed and named the "stuttering
Poisson" distribution to describe demand processes in supply situations; he was one
of the first to use quereing theory to analyze landing congestion of aircraft; in recent
years he has pioneered the use of stochastic models to represent disease processes,
and has contributed to the literature on the management of cervical cancer, arteriosclerosis and breast cancer.
He was Founding Editor of the International Abstracts in Operations Research
and Associate Editor of Operations Research and SIAM Journal on Applied Mathematics, and served as a consultant to a variety of corporations and governmental
agencies.
His encyclopedic knowledge, quick wit and ready availability has made him a
favorite instructor for many students, and a valued colleague to his fellow faculty.




MAY MEETING, 1982


339


In recognition of this distinguished educator and researcher the Regents now
salute Herbert P. Galliher for his dedicated service by naming him Professor
Emeritus of Industrial and Operations Engineering.
ROBERT H. HOISINGTON, Assistant Dean of the College of Engineering and  R.H. Hoisington
Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, will retire from active status of May  Retirement
31, 1982, following 36 years of service to the College and University.
Dean Hoisington joined the College in 1946 as Assistant Professor of Engineering Drawing, and in 1956 was promoted to Associate Professor. In 1959, he was
appointed Assistant to the Dean, and promoted to Assistant Dean for Student Affairs
in 1967, with responsibility for liaison with the Junior, Community, and Private
Colleges in the State with respect to the development of their pre-engineering
programs.
His career is distinguished by his dedication to the problems of student affairs as
well as to the problems of individual students.
He enjoys the respect of students and faculty alike for his equitable treatment, his
high standards of performance, and his cheerful and constructive counseling and
advising of transfer and foreign students.
He has been an active participant in service to the University as well, having
served on many University committees and boards, including the Board of Admissions, the Board of Governors for Residence Halls, and the Board of Governors of
the International Center.
In recognition of this distinguished educator and administrator the Regents now
salute Robert H. Hoisington for his dedicated service by naming him Assistant Dean
Emeritus and Associate Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering.
HELEN L. JOHNSON, Associate Professor of Biostatistics, has retired from  H.L. Johnson
active faculty status as of April 30, 1982 after a productive career as a teacher.  Retirement
Professor Johnson was first employed by the Epidemiology Department of the
School of Public Health in 1942. She was promoted from an Instructor to Assistant
Professor of Public Health Statistics in 1953 upon completion of her Master of
Public Health degree program at the University of Michigan. She then joined the
Department of Biostatistics after it became a separate department in 1949.
Professor Johnson excelled as a teacher of biostatistics. In recognition of her
outstanding teaching and service to students and alumni of the School of Public
Health, she was the first faculty member in the School to be designated as Guest of
Honor at Alumni Days in 1976. In addition to her teaching at the University of
Michigan, she assisted the Center for Disease Control with its Epidemiology Training Courses in 1965.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for her dedicated service by
naming her Associate Professor Emeritus of Biostatistics.
PHILLIP S. JONES, Professor of Mathematics and Professor of Education, will  P.S. Jones
retire from active faculty status as of May 31, 1982, after a productive career as both  Retirement
teacher and researcher.
A native of Elyria, Ohio, Jones came to the University in 1929 where he pursued
undergraduate and graduate studies for five years and received an M.A. in 1935.
During the period 1934-45 Jones held teaching positions at Jackson High School,
Jackson Junior College, Edison Institute of Technology and Ohio State University
before returning to the University to complete graduate work for a Ph.D. in the
History of Mathematics in 1948.
Professor Jones was appointed to the Mathematics Department at the University as
Instructor in 1947 and promoted subsequently to Assistant Professor in 1948, to
Associate Professor in 1953 and to Professor in 1958.
Though his thesis and much subsequent research concerned the history of
mathematics, Jones maintained great interest in education and the preparation of
teachers of school mathematics. He became an essential contact between the University and the schools and junior colleges throughout Michigan, and an annual
conference he organized first in 1951 played a vital role in furthering understanding
between all concerned with mathematics education in the State.
Professor Jones is known nationally and internationally as an authority on the




340


MAY MEETING, 1982


history of mathematics and mathematics education and has made major contributions
to both fields. He is widely recognized for his enthusiastic and unselfish teaching,
his freely given service and his scholarly'publications.
Professor Jones was elected President of the National Council of Teachers of
Mathematics in 1960-62 and served on the Board of Governors of the Mathematical
Association of America and on the National Academy of Science Committee on
Mathematics Instruction. He was awarded an Honorary Doctorate by Northern Michigan
University and the University of Michigan School of Education has just established
the Phillip S. Jones Award in Mathematics Education in his honor.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by
naming him Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Education.
A. Mariotti   ARNO MARIOTTI, Professor of Music, will retire from active faculty status as
Retirement  of May 31, 1982.
A graduate of the Curtis Institute of Music, where he was a student of Marcel
Tabuteau in oboe and English horn, Mr. Mariotti taught at Indiana, DePauw, and
Duquesne universities, Carnegie Institute, and the Pennsylvania College for Women
before coming to Michigan.
A member of the faculty since 1973, he had previously served as first oboist of
the Detroit Symphony Orchestra for 21 years. Earlier in his career, Mr. Mariotti had
been a member of Indianapolis, Pittsburgh, Chautauqua, and Philadelphia at Robin
Hood Dell orchestras-always as first oboist. For a number of years, he also toured
with the Bakaleinikoff Symphonietta and the Philadelphia La Scala Opera Company
Orchestra.
Among his faculty recitals in Ann Arbor, Mr. Mariotti has performed frequently
as a member of the Baroque Trio and the Faculty Woodwind Quintet and as guest
artist with the Stanley Quartet. He has also appeared as soloist with orchestras in
Michigan and Ohio.
He has recorded as a member of the Detroit Symphony and as a soloist on
Golden Crest Records.
The Regents now salute this distinguished musician for his dedicated service by
naming him Professor Emeritus of Music.
M.L. Plant    MARCUS L. PLANT, Professor of Law, is retiring from active faculty status as
Retirement  of May 31, 1982, after a dedicated career of teaching and research.
Professor Plant was born in New London, Wisconsin, in 1911. He received his
B.A. and M.A. degrees from Lawrence College in 1932 and 1934. After two years
as a high school teacher he returned to law school, receiving his J.D. from the
University of Michigan in 1938. His career as a practicing lawyer included private
practice in Milwaukee, Wisconsin and New York, and service with the Office of
Price Administration.
Professor Plant joined the faculty of the Law School in 1946, and has been a
member of the faculty ever since.
At the Law School, Professor Plant's teaching and scholarly interests have
spanned three major fields. He has taught torts from the beginning of his career, and
published a book on Cases on Torts (1953). He has long taught and lectured on the
relationships between law and medicine, and coauthored a treatise on The Law of
Medicine (1959). His teaching and writing on workers' compensation and allied laws
have borne fruit in several succeeding editions of a book most recently titled Cases
and Materials on Workers' Compensation and Employment Rights (1980). He has
written and lectured widely on these topics, spreading his influence far beyond the
limits of the University.
Law has not been the only area of Professor Plant's service to the University and
the community. He served for twenty-four years as the University's faculty representative to The Intercollegiate Conference of Faculty Representatives and the National
Collegiate Athletic Association. From 1967 to 1969 he was President of the N.C.A.A.,
and from 1969 to 1972 he was a member of the United States Olympic Committee. He
worked tirelessly in these roles to preserve the place of amateur and academic values
in athletic competition.
For more than three decades, Professor Plant has engaged the intellects and
captured the affection and respect of students, alumni, members of the practicing




MAY MEETING, 1982


341


bar, the medical professions, people engaged in athletics, and his colleagues. He has
played well all of the many roles that he has assumed in his active career.
The Regents now salute this accomplished lawyer and educator for his long
service to the University of Michigan by naming him Professor Emeritus of Law.
DAVID H. REIDER, Professor of Art, will retire from active faculty status May  D.H. Reider
31, 1982 after a most prodigious career as teacher, photographer and artist/designer.  Retirement
A native of Cleveland, David Reider studied art on an undergraduate level at the
Cleveland Institute, followed by graduate study at Albright Art School of the
University of Buffalo and Millard Fillmore College. Prior to joining the University
of Michigan faculty he taught at Cornell University and the University of Buffalo,
and undertook free-lance photography and design work for Ford Motor Co., Kenyon
Eckardt and Goodrich.
In 1947 he joined our faculty as assistant professor, teaching Photography and
Drawing in the former College of Architecture and Design. His contributions to the
University of Michigan and the School of Art have been lasting and significant. His
reputation as a teacher is prodigious, his rapport with students and dedicated service
as counselor and committee member, exemplary. He has an extensive exhibition
record, having had one-man shows at the University of Illinois, University of
Pennsylvania, University of California at Davis, University of Alabama, University
of Washington and others. Professor Reider has earned consistant grant support for
his research in Multiple Photographic Imagery and the Creative Role of Light in
Photography, traveling throughout Mexico, England and Europe.
The Regents now acknowledge the contribution of this distinguished teacher and
artist, whose dedicated service to the university well earns him the title of Professor
Emeritus of Art.
ALLAN F. SMITH, Professor of Law, is retiring from active faculty status as of  A F. Smith
May 31, 1982, after a dedicated career of teaching and research.            Retirement
Professor Smith was born in Belgrade, Nebraska, in 1911. He received his B.A.
from Nebraska State Teachers College in 1933, his LL.B. from the University of
Nebraska in 1940, and his LL.M. and S.J.D. from the University of Michigan in
1941 and 1950. His career in law actually started before law school as a law clerk
with a Nebraska law firm. He later served with the Office of Price Administration,
and the United States Army.
Professor Smith first taught at the University of Michigan Law School in 1946.
He joined the faculty to stay in 1947. His career as Professor of Law has been
supplemented by his roles as Director of Legal Research and Chairman of the
Graduate Committee from 1954 to 1960; Dean of the Law School from 1960 to
1965; Vice-President for Academic Affairs from 1965 to 1974; and Interim President
of the University from 1979 to 1980.
Professor Smith's scholarly work has covered an array of subjects within the
field of property law. His first book, Personal Life Insurance Trusts, was published
in 1950. That book was soon followed by a series of casebooks in property law that
he co-authored from 1951 up to the most recent version, Basic Property Law, in
1979. In 1956, he co-authored a four-volume treatise on The Law of Future
Interests. He has written articles on other topics, and has participated actively in the
property law activities of the Michigan State Bar Association, including long service
on its Committee on Title Standards.
As a classroom teacher, Professor Smith has been one of the most popular and
successful teachers at the Law School. He has combined great wisdom and deep
learning with an ability to reach all students in ways that are seldom equaled and
never forgotten.
The Regents' citation on the occasion of conferring an honorary doctor of law
degree on Professor Smith well summarizes his contributions: "Rarely has a single
person had such a telling impact on every facet of the University's mission. Allan
Smith is at once author, scholar, teacher, educational leader and spokesman."
The Regents now salute this accomplished lawyer, educator and administrator for
his long service to the University of Michigan by naming him Professor, Vice-President
and Interim President Emeritus.




342


MAY MEETING, 1982


J.R. Squires   J. RADCLIFFE SQUIRES, Professor of English Language and Literature will retire
Retirement  from active faculty status as of May 31, 1982, after thirty years of productive service
to the University.
Radcliffe Squires, a native of Utah, took his bachelor's degree from the University of Utah in 1940. After serving as a Lieutenant in the U. S. Naval Reserve, and
as a Field Examiner for the Department of the Interior, he took his master's degree
from the University of Chicago in 1946. He spent two years as an instructor at
Dartmouth University, then proceeded to take his Ph.D. from Harvard University in
1952.
Professor Squires came to Michigan as Instructor of English in 1952, became an
Assistant Professor in 1955, and was promoted to Associate Professor in 1960 and to
Professor in 1964. From 1970 to 1977 he served as editor of the Michigan Quarterly
Review.
As poet, critic, editor, and teacher Radcliffe Squires earned respect for his
integrity and his exacting standards and made a significant contribution to American
letters. He is well known for his critical books on Robert Frost, Robinson Jeffers,
and Allen Tate. As poet, he commanded wide respect for the subtlety, learning, and
striking intelligence of his verse. Among his books of poetry are Fingers of Hermes
(1965), The Light Under Islands (1967), Waiting in the Bone (1973), and Gardens of
the World (1980.
The Regents salute this distinguished man of letters for his dedicated service by
naming him Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature.
W.F. Stolper   WOLFGANG F. STOLPER, Professor of Economics, will retire from active
Retirement  faculty status as of May 31, 1982, after a most productive career as teacher and
researcher.
Born in Austria, Professor Stolper did his undergraduate work in Law and
Economics at the Universities of Berlin, Bonn, and Zurich before coming to the
United States to undertake graduate study in Economics at Harvard University.
While at Harvard, he was a Charles W. Holtzer Fellow and a University Fellow, and
he received his Ph.D. in 1938.
During the course of his professional career, Stolper taught principally at three
places. He was an Instructor at Harvard University and Radcliffe College from 1936
to 1941; he moved on to Swarthmore College as Assistant, and later Associate
Professor during 1941-1949; and he came to the University of Michigan in 1949.
While here, he was director of the Center for Research on Economic Development
during 1963-1970. Professor Stolpher was invited as a Visiting Professor to a
number of foreign Universities during his career: the Universities of Zurich, Heidelberg, Munster, Bern, and Ibadan.
Professor Stolper's research interests were quite varied, but he has become
especially known for his work in three areas. First, International Trade and Finance.
Of his many articles in this field, one on protection and real wages, with Paul
Samuelson, has become a household word to economists-under the rubric, "StolperSamuelson theroem". In the mid-Fifties, Stolper's interests turned to the German
Economies, both east and west. The culmination of this was a book, The Structure
of the East German Economy, in 1960. Over 1960-1962, Professor Stolper was the
Head of the Economic Planning Unit of the Nigerian Federal Ministry of Economic
Development, and it strengthened his latent concern for the problem of Economic
Development. He worked in this field for the remainder of the sixties and seventies;
especially well known was his extended caveat, Planning Without Facts, published
in 1966.
In addition to his teaching and research, Professor Stolper supervised many
doctoral dissertations and advised innumerable national and international agencies.
He worked with or chaired missions set up by the International Labor Office, the
World Bank, UNATAD, and AID, and helped produce reports and evaluations in
and on Malta, Liberia, Ethiopia, Tunisia, Togo, Dahomey, Turkey, Nigeria, Mexico, Zaire, the Ivory Coast, and Syria.
The Regents now salute this distinguished economist, advisor, researcher, and
teacher for his dedicated service to the University of Michigan by naming him
Professor Emeritus of Economics.




MAY MEETING, 1982


343


WALDO E. SWEET, Professor of Latin, College of Literature, Science, and the  W.E. Sweet
Arts and Professor of the Teaching of Latin, School of Education will retire from  Retirement
active faculty status as of May 31, 1982, after a distinguished career as an educator
and scholar.
Waldo Sweet received his A.B. degree in 1934 from Amherst College. In 1935
he completed his M.A. at Columbia and between 1940-42 he received first his
M.A., then a Ph.D. from Princeton University. Professor Sweet taught Latin at
several private schools, before beginning his career at the University of Michigan in
1946 as an Associate Professor; he was promoted to full Professor in 1961.
Professor Sweet is especially well-known for programmed instruction in the
teaching of Latin, commonly called the "Sweet method." He also designed a
successful two semester course sequence on Greek and Roman Sports and Recreation. He is the author of Latin: A Structural Approach, 1957; Artes Latlnae (a
multi-media programmed course including Latin: Levels One and Two, (Lectiones
PrTmae, Lectiones Secundae)), 1966-71; Vergil's Aeneid: A Structural Approach,
1960; and A Course on Words, 1982 with G. Knudsvig. In addition he has
written many articles on language learning. He is currently working on a college
level source book for Greek and Roman sport and recreation.
Professor Sweet long served as chairman of the University Committee for
Foreign Language Instruction, which established the Foreign Language Courier as a
means of sharing ideas with teachers of language in the state and to strengthen
support for foreign language study. In collaboration with the School of Education's
Bureau of School Services, he maintained regular contact with Michigan high
schools regarding foreign language programs, by conducting site visits to various
schools.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar and educator for his dedicated
service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Latin and the Teaching of Latin.
CHARLES TRINKAUS, Professor of History, will retire from active faculty  c. Trinkaus
status as of May 31, 1982 after a most productive career as teacher and educator.  Retirement
Professor Charles Trinkaus was born in Brooklyn, New York and received his
early education there and in Rockville Centre, New York. After receiving his B.A.
from Wesleyan University (Middletown, Connecticut) in 1933, he entered the
graduate school of Columbia University from which he received his Ph.D. in 1940.
He was a member of the History Department of Sarah Lawrence College from 1936
to 1970 rising to the rank of full professor. In 1970 he joined the faculty of The
University of Michigan as Professor of History, remaining here until his retirement in
1982. He has also served as director of the Sarah Lawrence Summer Program in
Florence, 1966-1972, and as visiting professor of New York University, Long
Island University and the University of California, Los Angeles. He is a Life
Associate and sometime chairman of the Columbia University seminar on the
Renaissance.
Professor Trinkaus's scholarly achievement has earned him numerous awards of
recognition. He is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, former
president (1973-1976) of the Renaissance Society of America and a recipient of
fellowships from the American Council of Learned Societies, and the John Simon
Guggenheim Memorial Foundation and the National Endowment for the Humanities.
He has served on the editorial boards of Studies in the Renaissance, the Renaissance
Quarterly, Renaissance and Reformation, and Medievalia et Humanistica.
At The University of Michigan, Charles Trinkaus has served on numerous
committees in the History Department and College of Literature, Science and the
Arts. He was particularly active in the Medieval and Renaissance Collegium, service
as its director in 1974-1975. He also served on the Rackham Executive Board in
1979-1981.
Professor Trinkaus has an international reputation as a specialist in the intellectual history of the Italian Renaissance. His principal works include Adversity's
Nobelmen: The Italian Humanists on Happiness (New York, 1940 and 1965); In our
Image and Likeness: Humanity and Divinity in Italian Humanist Thought, 2 vol.
(London and Chicago, 1970) and The Poet as Philosopher: Petrarch and the Formation of Renaissance Consciousness (New Haven and London, 1979).
Most important is In Our Image and Likeness which P.O. Kristeller described




344


MAY MEETING, 1982


"as a major achievement in the study of the intellectual history of the Renaissance"
and which other commentators agreed placed Trinkaus amongst the leading half
dozen scholars who have explored the field during the past century.
The Regents now salute this distunguished educator for his dedicated service by
naming him Professor Emeritus of History.
W.J. Weichlein   WILLIAM J. WEICHLEIN, Professor of Music and Library Science, will retire
Retirement  from active status as of May 31, 1982.
A member of the music faculty since 1952, he earned three degrees at Michigan:
BM '49, MM '50, and Ph.D. in musicology, 1956. Before attending Michigan, he
studied at the Curtis Institute. Chairman of the Department of Music History/Musicology
from 1969 to 1975, he has taught courses in music history, music bibliography, and
a seminar in music librarianship.
Professor Weichlein is a past president of Pi Kappa Lambda, the national music
honor society, and editor of its series, Studies in American Music. A past president
of the Music Library Association, he also served as the organization's executive
secretary from 1965 to 1975. He was acting associate dean of the School of Music in
1971-72 and has served on numerous administrative committees.
Among Professor Weichlein's publications are two books and numerous articles.
The Regents now salute this distinguished musician for his dedicated service by
naming him Professor Emeritus of Music and Professor Emeritus of Library Science.
G.H. Whipple  G. HOYT WHIPPLE, Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, School
Retirement of Public Health, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1982 after having
completed a long and distinguished professional career in the field of Radiological
Health.
Professor Whipple received a B.S. in Chemistry from Wesleyan University in
1939 and then entered Massachusetts Institute of Technology as a graduate student in
physics. From 1942-1947, he was a staff member of the Division of Industrial
Cooperation at M.I.T., where he was engaged in research and development of a
number of military projects, including Loran, dehydration of food and aerial bomb
fuses. In 1947, Professor Whipple accepted a position in the Health Instruments
Division of the Hanford Works, General Electric Company, where, for three years,
he was in charge of a special group working on problems of radiation protection.
In 1950, he joined the University of Rochester Atomic Energy Project and
received his Ph.D. in biophysics in 1953. During his seven years at the University of
Rochester, he conducted research in radiation dosimetry and radiation biology,
taught courses in health physics and was appointed as Assistant Professor in Radiation Biology.
In 1957, Professor Whipple joined The University of Michigan School of Public
Health faculty as an Associate Professor of Radiological Health, and established a
graduate program in radiological health. In 1960, he was appointed as Professor of
Radiological Health and continued to provide outstanding leadership to this program
until the time of his retirement.
Throughout his career, he has been recognized as an outstanding authority in the
field of radiological health and radiation protection. He is board certified by the
American Board of Health Physics and by the American Board of Industrial Hygiene
in the radiological aspects of industrial hygiene. He has been a long time active
member of the Health Physics Society and the American Institutional Hygiene
Association.
His advice and counsel concering radiological health problems has been widely
sought by numerous industries and especially by the electric utility companies of the
country. He has served as a consultant to the Atomic Energy Commission, the
Department of Defense, the State Department, the International Atomic Energy
Commission and the World Health Organization.
Professor Whipple has had a keen interest in the education and development of
students into professionals in health physics. He gave generously of his time and
talents to the growth and maintenance of The University of Michigan's excellent
reputation in this field.
The Regents now salute this distinguished professor by naming him Professor
Emeritus of Environmental and Industrial Health.




MAY MEETING, 1982


345


VII. DEATHS
Vice-President Frye reported the death of Philip Brickman,     P. Brickman,
Professor of Psychology. A memorial statement will be presented
to the Regents next month.
VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the     Degree Lists
Regents approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
School of Art
Bachelor of Fine Arts (B.F.A.), April 20, 1982
add:
Gayle Denise Dickerson
Randi Lynn Gerber, cum laude
Brian Allen Meuser
Pamela Marie Thornton
correct to show:
Peter Anthony Niland, magna cum laude
Law School
Juris Doctor, December 22, 1982
add:
Michael Edward Meier, B.A., University of Wisconsin-La Crosse
School of Natural Resources
Bachelor of Science, April 27, 1982
add:
William Michael Collins
Jeffrey Leo Noftz
Mary Joan Pitcher
Bachelor of Science in Forestry, April 27, 1982
add:
Anthony Thomas Tucker
Master of Forestry, April 27, 1982
add:
Bruce W. Breitmeyer, B.S.F.
Donald A. Vandendriesche, B.S.F.
The University of Michigan-Dearborn
School of Management
Bachelor of Business Administration, December 23, 1981
correct to show:
Lee Ann Helen Baker




346


MAY MEETING, 1982


IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Ordinance ato  Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the changes to the Regents'
Regulate Parking,
Traffic, Littering  Ordinance to Regulate Parking, Traffic, Littering and Vehicular
and Vehicular
Noise onCampus  Noise on Campus. He noted that these revisions were made to
conform to changes in city and state legislation concerning these
matters. Because of the increased density of bicycles on campus, an
addition to the ordinance was included concerning bicycle registration and control. The increase in bicycle use on campus has increased the theft of these vehicles, and unless properly licensed,
there is no way to return a recovered bicycle to the rightful owner.
Regent Roach asked if a student's bicycle was registered in his
home town, would he need to register in Ann Arbor as well at an
additional expense to the student. Vice-President Brinkerhoff responded affirmatively so that the bicycle could be listed in the Ann
Arbor bicycle registration computer system which would provide
prompt identification. He said the fee was minimal.
Regent Roach commented that the students would not learn of
this requirement until they return to campus in the fall. If this
ordinance is adopted at this meeting and later on there are complaints, he said he would not be opposed to consider an amendment
in September.
Also of concern to Regent Roach was that section of the
ordinance which prohibits students from storing their bicycle when
not in use in their rooms. Vice-President Brinkerhoff replied that it
was the intent of the ordinance to make sure the bicycles were
appropriately parked when they are in public areas and not to
legislate against that particular action. Vice President Brinkerhoff
said he would look into the issue and bring the matter back to the
Regents with some clarification.
Regent Dunn then moved to table the item. Regent Baker
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Medical Service  Dean John Gronvall of the Medical School then addressed the
Plan
Board with respect to the Medical Service Plan. He said the Medical Service Plan has been one of the most significant developments
in the Medical School during the past decade. The practice plan is
now the largest single fund source that supports the Medical School.
He indicated there were problems that needed attention as does any
large, complex structure, but it definitely has been a success.
Dr. Thomas Herrmann, Associate Dean for Medical Administration, reviewed the report and mentioned some of the highlights.
Dr. Herrmann listed the goals of the plan: (1) to assist the Medical
School and the Hospital in meeting their primary goals of teaching,
research, and patient care, (2) to assist in the recruitment and
retention of a medical faculty of high quality, (3) to provide faculty
incomes which are competitive with the incomes of faculty members in the same disciplines at comparable academic medical cen



MAY MEETING, 1982


347


ters in the country, and (4) to assure financial stability for the
faculty by providing appropriate incentives, so that appropriate
charges would be made for all professional services rendered. He
mentioned also the extent to which these goals were achieved; the
key features of the Medical Service Plan; the factors believed to be
primarily responsible for the success of the plan, and the major
challenges and/or opportunities that lie ahead for the Medical Service Plan at Michigan.
The Regents acknowledged the excellence of the report. They
discussed the possibility of implementing an internal cost containment
mechanism, and the means by which a higher percentage of faculty
salaries will be met with internal resources.
Dean Gronvall stated that some measure of cost containment
has been met by shifting more services into the outpatie clinics.
HMO plans and the market place also contribute to cost containment.
He described how the Medical School divides fees for physician
services between salaries and support for development purposes. In
order to meet more of the salary component internally, the percentage
set aside for development purposes would need to be decreased.
President Shapiro commented that, in his judgment, the  w Vasse
implementation of the MSP has been a major accomplishment of
the Medical School. It has been accomplished in a far more effective
and smoother pattern than virtually any other school. He said this
view was confirmed by the recent visit of the Medical School's
accreditation team.
President Shapiro commended Dr. William Vasse, Assistant to
the Chancellor at Flint, who will be leaving the University to
become Vice-President for Academic Affairs at the State University
of New York at New Paltz, for his significant contributions to the
University and the Flint campus. He wished him good luck in his
new assignment.
Chancellor Nelson reviewed the recommendation to establish a  School of Health
School of Health Sciences at The University of Michigan-Flint. He
indicated that the major units to be housed in this academic degree
granting unit would be the nursing, physical therapy and health
sciences programs.
In response to Regent Dunn's question regarding the location of
the new unit, Vice Chancellor Eby said that only the physical
therapy program would require a new location and it was their
intent to move the unit into the surge building.
Regent Dunn then asked about the request to remodel the Mott
Building. Chancellor Nelson explained that certain courses formerly
taught by the Medical School, which now will be offered by the
biology department at Flint in support of the physical therapy
program will require additional laboratory space. The biology
department is already housed in the Mott Building.




348


MAY MEETING, 1982


The Regents discussed the cost of the project and the fact that
the contingency fund, which was budgeted for a six-year period,
would be depleted for all practical purposes by this one project.
Chancellor Nelson explained they have already begun to base-budget
the program and the community support for the program has been a
major element in fund-raising endeavors. He said he was confident
that the original projected budget would not be exceeded.
Regent Power then moved to authorize the establishment of a
School of Health Sciences at The University of Michigan-Flint, and
authorization to bid and award a contract not to exceed $160,000 to
remodel space in the Mott Memorial Building for laboratory and
office facilities in support of the Physical Therapy Program. Regent
Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Power commented that under the leadership of Chancellor
Nelson and Dr. Vasse the physical therapy program has gained a
great deal of support in the Flint community. It is yet another
example where needs and interests will be mutually served. She
commended the Chancellor, Provost Eby, and Dr. Vasse for their
efforts.
Comments    The Regents then heard comments from the following individuals
on the topics indicated: a five-minute video tape was presented
showing the synchronized swim team in some of their routines;
Laura Berne, student, Marcia Federbush, Ann Arbor citizen,
Lawrence Holter, father of one of the swimmers, and Sue Neu,
alumna and former swimmer, on the discontinuance of the
synchronized swimming program; Lawrence Radine and Lars Bjorn,
Associate Professors of Behavioral Sciences at UM-Dearborn, on
the review of the Institute for Labor and Industrial Relations.
FRIDAY MAY 21, 1982
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Nederlander, Power, Roach, and Waters. Chancellors Jenkins and
Nelson, and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Overberger, Johnson,
Acting Vice-President Jacobson and Vice-President and Secretary
Kennedy also were present. Regent Vamer was absent.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order and read the
following statement:
President's  "For the third time in the State's current fiscal year, and for the
Statement re:
Executive Order fourth time in the last nine months, public higher education is once
again the subject of an executive order reduction.
"Three of these orders have meant outright reductions totaling
$11,134,370 for the three campuses of The University of Michigan.
The other order will defer $22 million from our fourth quarter
allocation into the state's next fiscal year. Even if that total deferred




MAY MEETING, 1982


349


amount is recovered, there will be a substantial interest cost to the
University that will not be recovered.
"We are painfully aware of the circumstances that have led to
these damaging cutbacks. However, while these reductions may be
described as necessary under the circumstances, their cumulative
effect is now undermining the strength of this state's public higher
education system.
"The people of this state deserve better. We cannot allow this
deterioration to continue or we shall see higher education crumble
altogether. As a state, economic recovery is perhaps our first
priority, but such a recovery requires a restoration to a responsible
level of support for our colleges and universities. This issue must
become a critical priority for state government."
Vice-President Brinkerhoff introduced Mr. Norman Herbert, the  University's
Endowment Funds
University's Investment Officer, Mr. Ned Joachimi, and Mr. Thomas
Astley from Investment Management Control Systems, who would
discuss the National Bank of Detroit's performance of the University's
endowment funds.
Mr. Herbert indicated that the primary goal for the endowment
funds was to maintain the purchasing power of the principal of the
funds. A sub-goal would be to perform at least as well as the
appropriate indices.
Mr. Joachimi said that the University must adhere to the simple
formula, spending rate plus inflation rate equals total rate of return,
over the long term to enable the endowment fund to remain whole,
otherwise there will be an erosion of these funds. The University's
investment goal, if one assumed a spending rate of approximately
6%, and an inflation rate of approximately 9%, should be to
achieve a total rate of return of approximately 15%.
In response to the question of whether any institution had
achieved an appropriate total return, Mr. Joachimi said that seldom
during the last five years that had been achieved. Comparisons with
other institutions were difficult because each used different allocations
of assets. He said the University must look at the fixed income and
equity segments of the portfolio separately in order to gain maximum
utilization of funds.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff commented that any time the inflation
rate is greater than the spendable income there is a great deal of
pressure within the University to increase the spendable income. In
an effort to improve the total performance of the endowment funds,
the Board recently approved a series of changes that involves stock
lending, options, real estate, and movement of equity into the
Common Fund. Now, the basic issue is whether or not to recommend
a spending cap on income. Vice President Brinkerhoff indicated
that he would put together a time schedule for discussion at the next
meeting.




350


MAY MEETING, 1982


After further discussion, President Shapiro remarked that the
consideration of the spending rate will help to determine the kind of
management needed and what policy changes, if any, are necessary
to improve the University's situation.
Purchase of  Regent Nederlander moved authorization to purchase 40,000
shares of Property Capital Series B Convertible Preferred Stock
from the Consolidated endowment funds, Rackham endowment
funds, and the Funds functioning as endowment. Regent Dunn
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Study of Lorch Hall  Vice-President Brinkerhoff commented that after the evaluation
for Economics
Department Use committee had recommended not to rebuild on site nor to rebuild
the Economics Building in the same configuration, it was suggested
that Lorch Hall, the former Architecture and Design Building, be
considered as a possible alternative for the Economics Department.
One of the recommendations was to bring the Economics Department
and certain allied activities together. This would require not only
the reuse of Lorch Hall, but an addition to it as well. The
recommendation at this time, however, is to make a determination
as to whether the Economics Department and the related program,
the Center for Research on Economic Development could be
accommodated into that facility without adding to it. The Mathematics
Department which had originally been slated to occupy the building
could not be accommodated successfully without a substantial
additional investment.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the appointment of Eberle M.
Smith and Associates of Detroit as the architectural firm to determine
the feasibility of renovating Lorch Hall for use by the Economics
Department. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Rackham Memorial  Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the management agreement
Building, Detroit
with the Rackham Memorial Building in Detroit.
Regent Nederlander suggested that since no one can predict
what is going to happen in the future, it might be wise to include a
cancellation clause in the agreement.
Regent Dunn moved to authorize the Vice-President and Chief
Financial Officer to execute the agreement with the Engineering
Society of Detroit for the management of the University's portion
of the Horace H. Rackham Educational Memorial Building in
Detroit, subject to the inclusion of a cancellation clause. Regent
Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted. Regent Roach
abstained from the discussion and the vote.
Real Property  Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the recommendation to
lease certain lands in Gibson Township, Bay County, Michigan.
The Regents inquired about the length of the lease, additional
options, other interested parties bidding on the property, and whether
Longyear Realty does any work for Consumers Power company.




MAY MEETING, 1982


351


Regent Roach moved that the oil and gas lease with Consumers
Power for certain property from the Helen F. Weber estate be
approved for execution, subject to verification that there is no
conflict of interest on the part of the Longyear Realty Company.
Regent Dunn seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Brown moved authorization to sell the property in Auburn
Heights, Michigan, to the United States Postal Service for $58,700,
as recommended. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
X. OTHER
Regent Nederlander moved to authorize the Board in Control of         Intercollegiate
Athletics Faculty
Intercollegiate Athletics to appoint an alternate faculty representative  Representative
to the Intercollegiate (Big Ten) Conference for a three-year term.
The appointment must be approved by the Senate Assembly. Regent
Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Nederlander moved to approve the revisions to sections         Bylaw Revisions
5.22 and 5.23 of the Regents' Bylaws concerning supplemental
instructional staff definitions. Regent Roach seconded the motion
and it was adopted. The revisions, as revised follows:
Sec. 5.22. ADJUNCT INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF. Persons whose primary
responsibilities lie outside the University or in another capacity within the University
may be appointed on a part-time basis as adjunct professors, associate professors,
assistant professors, instructors or lecturers in order to supplement the instructional
program.
Appointment and/or promotion criteria shall be consistent with those for regular
instructional ranks to the extent applicable.
Adjunct appointments or reappointments are recommended by the appropriate
instructional department, school or college, and approved by the President.
Appointments as adjunct instructional staff are on an annual or shorter basis and
without tenure.
Sec. 5.23. CLINICAL INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF. Professional practitioners
in the community or within the University may be appointed on a part-time basis as
clinical professors, associate professors, assistant professors, instructors or lecturers
in order to supplement the instructional program.
Appointment and/or promotion criteria shall be consistent with those for regular
instructional ranks to the extent applicable.
Clinical appointments or reappointments are recommended by the appropriate
instructional department, school or college, and approved by the President.
Appointments as clinical instructional staff are on an annual or shorter basis and
without tenure.
Regent Nederlander moved to approve the uses of the income of         Wolfson
the Wolfson Endowment funds for the fiscal year 1982-83, as
recommended. Regent Dunn seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Approval of the recommendation for appointments to Medical            Medical Staff
Staff membership was moved by Regent Dunn, seconded by Regent 
Roach and adopted.
The Regents unanimously       approved to reschedule the July        July Meeting
Regents' meeting to July 22 and 23, 1982.




352


MAY MEETING, 1982


Housing Rates  Regent Roach moved to approve the increased rates of the
Increased,
UM-Dearborn  UM-Dearborn housing rental units, as recommended. Regent Dunn
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Citizens Advisory  Regent Dunn moved approval of the resolutions of appreciation
UM-Flint for three retiring members of UM-Flint's Citizens Advisory
Committee. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted.
RHP, Bid Package  Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed and described Bid Package
#9A, Conveyance I for the Replacement Hospital Project. He
indicated that the elevators were on the critical path. He reviewed
the alternates in the bid package and explained that the acceptance
or rejection of the various alternates was a cost control factor and
not an arbitrary or capricious decision as stated by a company who
did not succeed as the low bidder. If the project should exceed the
budget, the University is prepared to delete thirty-two beds from
the top floor of the hospital, thereby cutting costs. This was indicated
from the very beginning of the bidding process, and all of the
bidders were aware of this. The options were plainly listed as
alternates.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff said that specifications were for a
one-of-a-kind elevator cab in order to have a price comparison
between all four elevator companies. The design of the cab was
done by Albert Kahn in conjunction with the nation's leading
elevator consultant. The speeds, disbursals, stops, frequency and
all mechanisms which concern vertical transportation are very
important to a hospital. All companies bid on the same specifications.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff described the cab design and the reasons
for the design.
Regent Roach stated that the decision to award the bid to Otis
Elevator Company was not arbitrary as stated by the Westinghouse
Company. Unless there is a valid complaint, the University will
continue to award contracts to the lowest qualified bidders subject
to whatever modifications the University may later decide to make.
Construction  Regent Dunn moved to approve awarding a construction contract
Contract Awarded      D            approve
to the low bidder, Montgomery Elevator Company, Southfield,
Michigan, for the escalators component of Bid Package #9A, and
to Otis Elevator Company, Detroit, Michigan for the elevators and
dumbwaiters. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Baker inquired whether these additional bid packages
are adding to the total financial exposure.
President Shapiro indicated that a critical point was identified last
fall when a decision would have to be made as to whether the University could afford to proceed or not. This item was included in those
calculations. He then called for the vote and the motion was adopted.
Bank Account  Regent Baker moved to approve the establishment of a bank
account with the Brighton State Bank for the Brighton Health
Center. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted.




MAY MEETING, 1982


353


Regent Roach mentioned the two points which had been raised  RHP
on Thursday concerning the Hospital project: (1) will the delay of
the Regents' meeting one week in July cause any problems with
respect to contract awards, and (2) where is the $14.5 million
which is being shifted to Bid Package #11 coming from and will
this change the risk factor with respect to the decisions which must
be made this fall?
Vice-President Brinkerhoff replied that the food service component
is not on the critical path, therefore, the change in date of the
meeting will not adversely affect any contracts. With respect to the
second question, the $14.5 million is for equipment which is being
disbursed from the equipment budget and added to Bid Package
#11. He said he would check to determine if there would be any
change in the exposure factor and report to the Regents before the
next meeting.
The Regents received a report on affirmative action monitoring  Affirmative Action
of faculty promotions.
Regent Brown commented upon the presentation on Thursday  Synchronized
Swimming Program
concerning the synchronized swimming team. He expressed the view
that the University has not been and is not at the present time a
leader in women's athletics. It would seem to be a particularly bad
time, therefore, to drop a varsity sport for women unless there is a
compelling reason to do so. He would like to have the matter
reviewed.
President Shapiro indicated that, in his view, it would be
appropriate to ask for a clarification of the procedures and the
reasons for dropping the program, and he would do so.
All the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the month
of April totaled $1,444.38.
The Regents adjourned to meet on June 17 and 18, 1982.


RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary




354


MAY MEETING, 1982


INDEX
Adams, R. W., retirement, 335
Affirmative action, 353
Appointments, 327,334; committee 333
Bank account established, 352
Bolt, J. A., retirement, 336
Brickman, P., death of, reported, 345
Budget, executive order, President's statement on, 348
Bylaw revisions, Sec. 5.22, 5.23, 351
Conard, A. F., retirement, 336
Dearborn: housing rates increased, 352
Degrees: lists amended, 345
Endowment funds, 349
Farris, H. W., retirement, 337
Flint: School of Health Sciences, 347; citizens advisory committee resolutions,
352; Vasse, W., commended, 347
Frederick, J. R., retirement, 338
Galliher, H. P., retirement, 338
Gifts, 320
Hoisington, R. H., retirement, 339
Hospital: replacement project, bid package #9A, 352; construction contract
awarded, 352
Intercollegiate Athletics, faculty representative, 351
Johnson, H. L., retirement, 339
Jones, P. S., retirement, 339
Leaves of absence, 334, 335
Lorch Hall, study of, for Department of Economics, 350
Mariotti, A., retirement, 340
Medical Service Plan, 346
Medical Staff appointments, 351
Michigan, State of, executive order, President's statement on, 348
Parking, ordinance to regulate parking, traffic, littering, and vehicular noise on
campus, 346
Plant, M. L., retirement, 340
Preferred stock, purchase of, 350
Promotions, 327, 335
Public Comments, 348
Rackham Memorial Building, Detroit, 350
Real Property, 350
Regents' meeting, July rescheduled, 351
Reider, D. H., retirement, 341
Resignations, 335
Smith, A. F., retirement, 341
Squires, J. R., retirement, 342
Stolper, W. F., retirement, 342
Sweet, W. E., retirement, 343
Synchronized swimming program, 353
Trinkaus, C., retirement, 343
Vasse, W., commended, 347
Weichlein, W. J., retirement, 344
Whipple, G. H., retirement, 344
Wolfson endowment funds, 351
Women faculty members, lack of, 333




MAY MEETING, 1982


355


APPENDIX A
HONORARY DEGREES
Conferred May 1, 1982
HELEN M. MILLIKEN, Champion of the Equality of Rights for All, Patroness of
the Arts, and First Lady of Michigan
It should come as no surprise that the University of Michigan has deferred until
now the addition of yet another member of the Milliken family to the ranks of its
degree-holders. Given its propensity to save the best for last, the University now
happily welcomes Helen Milliken to those lists which already include the names of
her husband and one of their children.
Figurehead status was never one of her strong points, though it is too often
characteristic of one in her position. Active campaigner, spokeswoman, fund-raiser,
and dedicated worker are much more descriptive of her efforts on behalf of the arts,
the equal rights amendment, and conservation issues both at the state and national
levels. She has headed the Michigan Artrain effort since 1971 and has been most
active in many other efforts to strengthen the role of the arts in the lives of Michigan
citizens. As national co-chair of ERAmerica, she has traveled throughout the country
advocating constitutional status for the rights of women.
Concurrent with this torrent of "extracurricular" activity, Helen Milliken was
paying meticulous attention to all of the demands of her unique position in the life of
the state's first family. One can only wonder what is likely to occur now when it
appears she may have some spare time.
It is with pride and great gratitude that the Regents acknowledge the contributions of this singular woman by conferring on her the degree Doctor of Laws.
JOHN REWALD, Art Historian; Distinguished Professor, Graduate Center, The
City University of New York
The University of Michigan is proud to honor John Rewald, an art historian
whose career as a scholar, teacher, organizer of exhibitions, and adviser to public
museums and private collections has greatly enhanced our understanding and enjoyment of 19th and 20th century art.
Dr. Rewald was born in Germany, where he studied medieval architecture at
the universities of Hamburg and Frankfurt am Main. In 1933 he entered the
Sorbonne in Paris where he prepared his doctoral thesis, Cezanne et Zola, which
later was awarded the Prix Charles Blanc by the French Academy
By combining thorough scholarship with an insightful understanding of lives
and activities of the artists he has studied, Professor Rewald has produced books of
primary importance on a variety of major artists and art movements. His best known
books, The History of Impressionism of 1946 and Post-Impressionism of 1956,
continue to be basic sources for the study of late 19th century French art. He has also
produced monographs on Paul Cezanne, Georges Seurat, Paul Gauguin, Aristide
Maillol, Pierre Bonnard, and Giacomo Manzu and has edited the letters of Cezanne,
Gauguin and Camille Pissarro.
Professor Rewald has also organized exhibitions for many of the world's
leading museums, including nine exhibitions on Cezanne plus others devoted to
Bonnard, Maillol, and the Fauves.
In his role as advisory to private collections and museums, he has combined his
scholarship with wide experience and a highly refined sense of connoisseurship.
Through these efforts in developing American collections a great artistic legacy will
eventually enhance public museums in this country, where the works may be seen
and enjoyed by us all.




356                     MAY MEETING, 1982
John Rewald has devoted his great talents and energy to the world of art, and
his scholarly and creative efforts continue to inform and enrich the lives of students
and art lovers everywhere. The University of Michigan is pleased to honor his
achievements by awarding him the degree Doctor of Fine Arts.




JUNE MEETING, 1982
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, JUNE 17, 1982
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Nederlander, Power, Roach, and Varner. Chancellors Jenkins and
Nelson and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Frye, Overberger, Johnson and Acting Vice-President Jacobson also were present. Regent
Waters and Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy were absent.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order. He indicated that
the order of business would be reversed putting the budget review
item first on the agenda.
Vice-President Frye commented that there has been no change  Budget, 1982-83
since the last budget discussion-the state appropriation remains
uncertain. It is doubtful that the governor's recommendation of a
5% increase for higher education will be realized. In fact, a zero
increase over the University's current reduced budget is a more
realistic view at this point.
Anticipated expenses, excluding a salary program, for next year
would increase by approximately $17 million. This includes staff
benefits, utilities, nonsalary improvements, student aid, new space
commitments, certain other commitments and needs, and the interest on the fourth quarter appropriation deferred by the state. VicePresident Frye said that there was a compelling need for a salary
program at least equivalent to the estimated rate of inflation in
order to avoid further slippage in the salaries for the faculty and
staff. This would add approximately $10 million to the anticipated
expenses for next year, bringing the total to $27.5 million. Whether
a salary program of this proportion can be realized depends entirely
on the revenue side of the ledger.
Assuming certain percentage increases in tuition, indirect cost,
other sources of income, and a zero percent state appropriation
increase, the University could generate approximately $18.3 million. To this figure $5 million would be added from internal
reallocation as the first installment of the five-year program previously discussed for a total revenue of approximately $23.3 million. This would leave a shortfall of about $4 million. In order to
bring the budget in balance at the close of the 1982-83 fiscal year,
the salary program would have to be less than hoped for and
perhaps the tuition increase slightly higher.


357



