
JULY MEETING, 2004


The JUnivers.ity oft Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thurstday, July 15, 2004
The Regents convened at 1:25 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner, and White.
Also present were Provost Courant, Executive Vice President Kelch, Vice President
Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice President May, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice
President Slottow, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and
Vice President Wilbanks. Regent Deitch and Regent Taylor were absent.
President's Opening Remarks
President Coleman called the meeting to order. She commented on the fiscal year
2005 budget and noted that it is a particularly challenging time, given the uncertainty of
the state budget situation and the continued reduction in the University's appropriations
funding. She pointed out that the Ann Arbor campus has had to cut nearly $20 million
more from the 2005 budget, in addition to the $37 million cut last year.
President Coleman updated the Regents on recent developments surrounding the
Sexual Assault, Prevention and Awareness Center (SAPAC). She noted that changes
are being made to SAPAC that will enable it to enhance professional services in critical
areas and to provide a greater degree of counseling for sexual assault survivors. In
response to concerns that have been expressed at public comments and elsewhere, the
University has decided to retain its campus crisis line but to have it staffed by full-time
professionals with specialized training. In addition, space modifications will be made
within the counseling services area. Continued dialogue and feedback will be very
important to ensure that community needs are being met.
President Coleman also noted that University Housing staff is exploring a range of
options to accommodate the record first year class arriving in fall 2004. She said that
there would be a detailed discussion in the fall of the Residential Life Initiative, which
would include a plan for long-term comprehensive renewal of the residence hall system.
Introductory Comments - 2004-2005 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets
Executive Vice President Slottow stated that maintaining the University's financial
health requires that the chief financial officer effectively track and manage financial
performance, protect and strengthen the balance sheet, evaluate proposed operating
budgets to ensure they maintain the University's overall financial health, and identify
long-term financial challenges and develop alternative strategies. In addition, this officer
is required to ensure adherence to core financial principles in difficult financial times.
Executive Vice President Slottow described how each of the responsibilities listed
above are carried out. In the area of tracking and managing financial performance, he
noted that there is a continued focus on financial controls and compliance, as illustrated
by continued unqualified audit opinions, the oversight of the Regents' Finance, Audit
and Investment Committee, and the operations of the Financial Controls Task Force,
which has redefined many of the University's core transactions. The Financial Controls


1




July Meeting, 2004


Task Force has also issued a fiscal responsibilities policy, which defines the core
financial responsibilities of supervisors and managers at all levels of the University. He
described some of the dozens of initiatives that are underway that continue to leverage
administrative system investments in financial operations and student business
administration areas, including a number of areas which were formerly done on paper
or in person that can now be accomplished on-line via the web.
Executive Vice President Slottow gave an update on strategic procurement
activities. These include pre-negotiated prime vendor contracts, which save an average
of 22% compared to prior prices or $7.5 million annually; managed contracts for basic
supplies purchased through MStores, which has resulted in $9.7 million in savings
annually; and in utilities, which has yielded $4.6 million in savings annually. He also
noted that the competitive procurement process for purchases over $5,000 has saved
approximately $30 million over prices previously paid for those items.
Executive Vice President Slottow reviewed the balance sheet and noted that the
relationship of total assets to total liabilities and of debt to financial resources is
healthy. He also commented that liabilities do not include the $1 billion commitment
needed to fund retiree health benefits for active employees. Deferred maintenance
needs of $600 million to $800 million are also not included in liabilities.
Mr. Slottow displayed a graph illustrating that the University continues to invest
more money into existing facilities than in new facilities, which has contributed to the
favorable ratio of total renovation costs versus replacement costs. He also described the
savings and efficiencies yielded through practices in proactive cash management.
Mr. Slottow pointed out that human capital is one of the University's most
valuable assets.  He noted that representation of minorities and women on the
University of Michigan staff is higher than that for the work forces of both the state and
the local region. Among the investments being made in human capital are a redesign of
the classification system, ongoing benefits design, encouraging increased participation
in flexible spending accounts, creation of the office of institutional equity, and
successful completion of labor agreements.
Indications of prudent liability management include strong credit ratings, a prudent
policy, aggressive interest expense management, and obtaining the lowest premium
rates for insurance coverage. He noted that there are a number of key challenges in
maintaining the University's healthy financial condition and pointed out that the annual
operating budget is only one indicator of the University's financial condition. He
concluded that the proposed budget is consistent with maintaining the University's
overall financial health and quoted from a statement by Moody's Investors Service that
the University's Aaa bond rating is based on the University's disciplined budget
process, appropriate expense controls, powerful market draw, diversified revenue base,
manageable plans for borrowing, and a capable management team.
Ann Arbor Campus General Fund Operating Budget and Student Tuition and Fee
Rates
Provost Courant displayed a slide denoting the current funds budget totals by fund
for all campuses for 2004-2005. Total revenues will total $4.231 billion, while total
expenditures will total $4.287 billion. The seeming discrepancy in revenues and


2




July Meeting, 2004


expenditures is due to a technicality in accounting methods for capital expenditures in the
Auxiliary Activities Fund.
Provost Courant presented the General Fund budget for the Ann Arbor campus.
He cautioned that the assumptions on which the budget is based may not hold, due to
the fact that the higher education appropriation has not yet been approved by the state
legislature. He said that the current understanding is that if campuses limit the increase
in resident undergraduate tuition to 2.8%, 3% of the 5% midyear cut made in 2003-04
will be restored in their base appropriation. If tuition is not held to the incentive
amount of 2.8%, campuses will receive a further 3%  reduction to their base
appropriations.
Provost Courant noted that the budget is based on six guiding principles. The
most important of these is that the University will assure that students continue to have
access to an excellent "Michigan" education despite an environment of decreasing
revenues. This includes the long-standing commitment to meeting the demonstrated
financial need of all resident undergraduate students. The focus on students is also
demonstrated in the budget by increasing the number of sections for heavily subscribed
courses and by increasing expenditures for a number of vital programs in the Office of
the Vice President for Student Affairs. Other guiding principles include assuring that
the University is thoughtful and honest about budgeting and that it focuses on the long
term. The result will be that once the budget crisis has eased, the University will have
maintained its historical depth and breath of academic excellence.
Provost Courant noted that the total budget challenge amounts to $50.7 million,
including cost increases in general operating expenses and essential new initiatives such
as responding to increased demand for some courses, improving computer security, and
increased costs surrounding the research enterprise and admissions procedures. This
challenge is being met through expenditure reductions, including elimination of staff
and faculty positions, reduction in the use of overtime, temporary employees, and
consultants, and in other areas.
Provost Courant displayed graphs illustrating various factors in the relationship
among General Fund revenues, state appropriation, and tuition over a period of decades.
Comparing the University of Michigan's 2004-05 tuition increase for resident
undergraduates to those of the other Big Ten institutions, he pointed out that Michigan's
increase is the lowest among the Big Ten for the current year as well as the average for
the past five years. He noted that three Big Ten institutions have higher tuition for
resident freshmen students than Michigan.
Provost Courant gave further details of General Fund cost reductions that have
been made in centralized operations, including $20.1 million continued savings
achieved in energy costs, pharmacy benefits, health insurance, and other areas; and
non-centralized cost containment and expenditure reductions of $19.8 million achieved
in academic programs, academic support, and administrative areas.
Provost Courant then presented the recommended 2004-2005 General Fund budget
of $1,163,382,000.00 and a tuition and fee rate increase of 2.8% for resident
undergraduate students and 5% for most other students. He noted that if the state's
tuition restraint incentive changes materially, or if the state reneges on its


3




July Meeting, 2004


appropriations/tuition increase proposal or enacts a mid-year funding recision, revisions
to the tuition and fee rates will be requested.
Provost Courant commented that in the face of budgetary challenges, the
University's primary obligation is to maintain its excellence and to insure its
availability to students regardless of their financial circumstances. The focus on
academic programs requires a high-quality faculty and staff, and the requested budget
and tuition and fee rates are designed to ensure that these goals are reached. To that
end, he requested approval of proposed operating budget and tuition and fee rates.
Regent McGowan asked for an update on the current status of the budget within
the legislative process.  Vice President Wilbanks reported that there is still no
resolution, as state policy makers have been working for several weeks to come to an
agreement on what revenues will be available to support higher education as well as
other budget priorities.
President Coleman commented that the Cherry Commission is dealing with the
long term implications of some of these issues. The previous day she had had
discussions with a number of legislators and the lieutenant governor, and it did not
appear likely that there would be an immediate resolution.
Dearborn Campus General Fund Operating Budget and Student Tuition and Fee Rates
Chancellor Little commented that maintaining academic quality is the main principle
that guided preparation of the Dearborn campus budget. Other principles include
preserving accessibility through maintaining current levels of financial aid, and continuing
to create and nurture an equitable and humane workplace. He noted that there has been
broad participation in developing a budget which would serve the campus's priorities
while being consistent with fiscal realities.
Chancellor Little commented that enrollment growth is central to the campus's
recent and continued success, and the 2004-2005 budget is based on an assumption of
1.5% enrollment growth of 1.5%, while aiming at 3.0% growth. Revenues raised
through enrollment growth will fund a small number of new faculty positions as well as
increases in financial aid greater than the increase in tuition. The budget also reflects a
2% reallocation (about $1 million) from academic and other departments and a salary
program of 1.5%.
Flint Campus General Fund Operating Budget and Student Tuition and Fee Rates
Chancellor Mestas noted that the past year had been the most challenging in his
experience and that the coming year promises to be equally challenging. During the past
year, the combination of budget cuts and enrollment decline forced implementation of
decisions that had a severe impact on the life of the University. He noted that although
the Flint campus had been unable to provide salary increases, it had continued to function
without a loss in academic quality and with a minimal disruption in services. He reported
that resources provided by Vice President Rudgers and President Coleman had helped to
alleviate the consequence of the large cut that had been made to Michigan Television.
Chancellor Mestas cautioned that the temporary sacrifices that were made during
the past fiscal year could not be maintained without doing permanent harm to the Flint
campus and to the education provided to its students. Specifically, it would be


4




July Meeting, 2004


"'inconceivable" to go another year without providing adequate compensation to faculty
and staff. At the same time, he praised the solidarity shown by faculty and staff in the
face of the drastic measures that had to be made last year.
Chancellor Mestas noted that the 2004-2005 budget had been developed with
broad participation by the campus community and reflects assumptions and planned
expenditures addressing the top priorities. Assumptions include a flat enrollment and
adhering to a tuition increase that is in accordance with the agreement reached by the
state legislature. The budgetary priorities include enrollment growth to meet the
campus's capacity of 8,000 students, which will be challenging because the UM-Flint is
a commuter campus in the middle of an area experiencing a population decline. The
second priority is improving compensation for faculty and staff through a 3% salary
increase. The third priority is to ensure that the amount of financial aid matches the
increase in tuition. The fourth priority is to maintain the high quality of technology.
Comments from President Coleman
President Coleman commented that the University supports the efforts of the
legislature and governor to keep higher education affordable and is pleased that they have
developed a plan that will restore a portion of its base funding. Restraining the rate of
tuition increase has resulted in continuing cuts to programs across the University.
However, she repeated that this is not a long-term funding model and that a more
sustainable model for higher education funding needs to be found that achieves not only
affordability, but academic excellence. Tuition restraint, she emphasized, must be
coupled with more robust and predictable state support in addition to an emphasis on
financial aid.
Division of Student Affairs Budget
Vice President Harper noted that while the Division of Student Affairs was initially
asked to plan for a budget reduction in 2004-2005 of up to 5 percent. However, due to her
concern that a reduction of this magnitude would harm the University's ability to provide
sufficient support to student communities, she has worked with President Coleman and
Provost Courant to identify resources that would protect student affairs from cuts and
restore some funding that had been cut in previous years. Internal reallocation has led to
increased funding for a number of efforts, including enhanced safe space for sexual
assault survivors, restoration of funding for the Office of Multi-Ethnic Student Affairs
programs and the Powwow; expanding a position in the Office of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual,
and Transgender Affairs; and additional support for student activities and leadership
efforts and the International Center. She noted also that funding has been set aside from
investment proceeds to provide infrastructure repairs and improvements and interior and
exterior enhancements for the William Monroe Trotter House Multicultural Center.
In addition, Vice President Harper noted that $80,000 in recurring funds has been
identified to support the long-term development of multicultural programs connected
with the Trotter House. Due to this commitment, the leadership of Michigan Student
Assembly decided not to bring forward a request for a $1.00 student fee increase to
support Trotter House.


5




July Meeting, 2004


2004-2005 Fee Assessments for Michigan Student Assembly (MSA), Student Legal
Services (SLS), and School/College Governments
Vice President Harper commented that the University is focusing its efforts on
keeping student programs and services as strong as possible under current budget
constraints. She noted that the recommended fees remain the same as the 2003-2004 rates
of $6.69 per student per term for MSA, $5.50 per student per term for SLS, and $1.50 per
student per term for school/college governments.
Proposed FY 2005 University Health Service Fee
Vice President Harper reported that the University Health Service fee allows
students to have unlimited visits, laboratory testing, X-rays, and other services without
additional out-of-pocket costs. It also supports extensive health education programming
across the campus. Due to reductions in revenue streams, market-driven increases in
salaries and commodities, and increased regulatory costs, a rate increase of 5.4%, to
$137.37, per term is being requested.
Michigan Student Assembly Financial Report
Vice President Harper submitted the Michigan Student Assembly financial report for
December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) FY 2005
Operating Budget
Executive Vice President Kelch reported that the goals of the budget are to achieve
an operating margin consistent with the 10-year financial plan to facilitate investments in
new facilities, information technology, Medical School faculty, and routine capital
requirements and to support the goals and objectives of the Hospitals and Health Centers.
Just to maintain these at current levels will require more than $800 million over the next
decade. He explained that senior leadership at UMHHC is focused on achieving moderate
growth within capacity constraints; keeping fixed costs fixed plus inflation; limiting
increases in variable costs to activity plus inflation; increasing prices according to a
pricing plan; and making improvements in throughputs and capacity.
Executive Vice President Kelch displayed a chart illustrating the operating margin
trend from FY 1999 through FY 2005. He commented that the expected operating
margin for FY 2005 will exceed the amount originally budgeted for. Dr. Kelch
reviewed details of the FY 2005 operating budget of $1.281 billion, which includes an
operating margin of 4.0%. He noted that it is an ambitious, but achievable, budget that
is necessary to fulfill the mission, goals, and aspirations of the University of Michigan
Health System.
Regent Brandon congratulated Dr. Kelch and his colleagues on the terrific job they
have done in managing the Health System.
Discussion of 2004-2005 Budgets
Regent McGowan moved approval of the following budgets: 2004-2005 Revenue
and Expenditure Operating Budgets; Proposed Ann Arbor FY 2004-05 General Fund
Operating Budget; Proposed Ann Arbor FY 2004-05 Student Tuition and Fee Rates;
Proposed Dearborn Campus FY 2004-05 General Fund Operating Budget; Proposed


6




July Meeting, 2004


Dearborn Campus FY 2004-05 Student Tuition and Fee Rates; Proposed Flint Campus
FY 2004-05 General Fund Operating Budget; Proposed Flint Campus FY 2004-05
Student Tuition and Fee Rates; 2004-2005 Fee Assessments for Michigan Student
Assembly (MSA), Student Legal Services (SLS), and School/College Governments;
Proposed FY 2005 University Health Service Fee; Proposed FY 2005 University of
Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Operating Budget. Regent Newman seconded the
motion.
Discussion of Proposed Budgets
Regent Newman observed that she is troubled by the state being involved in the
tuition-setting process for state universities, as this is the responsibility of the governing
boards. She stated that while she understands why it is necessary to move forward and
accept the offer made by the legislature, she is concerned about having no choice but to
vote in favor of this budget. She stated that she would support it but is troubled by the
fact that it is happening. She believes it is a mistake on the part of the board to go along
with it, and she would not support it in subsequent years.
Regent McGowan stated that she appreciates the tough choices the University was
forced to make this year, and she hopes that the legislature will eventually respond
favorably to the Board's willingness to go along with its proposal. She noted that the
Regents appreciate the efforts being made on each of the three campuses to not allow
their effectiveness to be compromised.
Regent Brandon associated himself with the remarks of Regents Newman and
McGowan and noted that he will not respond favorably to any more proposals from the
legislature that dictate tuition rates for the University. Regent Richner agreed and noted
that this situation is unprecedented.
Regent Maynard commented that the budget situation was really difficult this year
because of the proposal put forth by the legislature. She said she supported the
proposed budget and respects that the excellence of the academic setting must never be
sacrificed.
Regent White stated that Michigan citizens need to reevaluate their priorities and
understand that there is a cost associated with high quality and to understand that taxes
are necessary to provide necessities. She concurred that this is the last year the Board
will be willing to accept deals from the legislature and that after this year, quality will
start to suffer if the fiscal situation does not improve.
The vote was then taken, and the motion to approve all of the 2004-2005 budgets
was approved unanimously.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes 13 conflict of interest items,
each of which requires 6 votes for approval. On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded
by Regent Brandon, the Regents unanimously approved each of the following items:
Amendment to Purchasing Contract with Valley View Farm
The Regents approved an amendment to an existing purchasing contract with Valley
View Farm to provide sheep for use in medical research projects. Because Douglas Doop,


7




Ju~ly Mleeting, 20044


owner of Valley View Farm, is also a University of Michigan employee, this contract
amendment falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Pediatric Endocrinology and Valley View Farm.
2.   The service to be provided is boarding and breeding of sheep for the purpose of
medical research. The service will be provided from September 1, 2003 through
August 31, 2005, for a total of $60,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Doop, a University of Michigan
Employee, owns Valley View Farm.
Purchasing Contract with ARTSearch
The Regents approved a purchasing contract with ARTSearch to provide several
pieces of artwork. Because Takeshi Takahara, an independent agent with ARTSearch, is
also a University of Michigan employee, this contract falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Life
Sciences Institute and ARTSearch.
2.   The products to be provided are four pieces of artwork for a total of $1,147.50.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Takahara, a University of
Michigan Employee, is an indirect party to the agreement as an independent agent
with ARTSearch.
Approval of Payment for Wonder Twins LLC
The Regents approved a payment by the Medical Management Center for services
provided by Wonder Twins LLC. Because Kendall Arbogast-Wilson, owner of Wonder
Twins LLC, is also a University of Michigan employee, this purchase falls under the State
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Medical Management Center and Wonder Twins LLC.
2.   The service provided was an advertisement and postcard design at a cost of $2,456.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Arbogast-Wilson, a University of
Michigan Employee, owns Wonder Twins LLC.
Approval of Payment for Ann Arbor IT Zone (School of Business Administration)
The Regents approved a payment by the School of Business Administration for
services provided by Ann Arbor IT Zone. Because Kenneth Nisbet, chair of the board of
directors of Ann Arbor IT Zone, is also a University of Michigan employee, this purchase
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
School of Business Administration and Ann Arbor IT Zone.
2.   The services provided were conference services at a cost of $56,600.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Nisbet, a University of Michigan
Employee, is chair of the board of directors of Ann Arbor IT Zone.


8




Ju~ly Mleeting, 20044


Purchasing Contract with Jan-Henrik Andersen
The Regents approved a purchasing contract with Jan-Henrik Andersen to provide
seven pieces of artwork. Because Jan-Henrik Andersen, an independent contractor, is also
a University of Michigan employee, this contract falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Life
Sciences Institute and Jan-Henrik Andersen.
2.   The products to be provided are seven pieces of artwork for $13,770.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Andersen, a University of
Michigan employee, is an independent contractor.
Approval of Payment for Novalung
The Regents approved a payment by the Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies for
services from Novalung. Because Dr. Robert Bartlett, a stockholder in Novalung, is also a
University of Michigan employee, this purchase falls under the State of Michigan Conflict
of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies and Novalung.
2.   The service to be provided is placement of a student intern at a cost of $6,000 per
intern.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Bartlett, a University of Michigan
employee, is a stockholder in Novalung.
Approval of Payment for T/J Technologies, Inc.
The Regents approved a payment by the Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies for
services from T/J Technologies, Inc. Because Levi Thompson, chief technology officer
and board chair of T/J Technologies, Inc., is also a University of Michigan employee, this
purchase falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies and T/J Technologies, Inc.
2.   The service to be provided is placement of a student intern at a cost of $6,000 per
intern.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Thompson, a University of
Michigan employee, is chief financial officer and board chair of T/J Technologies, Inc.
Approval of Payment for Adaptive Materials, Inc.
The Regents approved a payment by the Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies for
services from  Adaptive Materials, Inc. Because John Halloran, board member and
co-founder of Adaptive Materials, Inc., is also a University of Michigan employee, this
purchase falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies and Adaptive Materials, Inc.
2.   The service to be provided is placement of a student intern at a cost of $6,000 per
intern.


9




July Meeting, 2004
w


3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Halloran, a University of Michigan
employee, is a board member and co-founder of Adaptive Materials, Inc.
Approval of Payment for Soar Technology, Inc.
The Regents approved a payment by the Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies for
services from Soar Technology, Inc. Because John Laird, board member of Soar
Technology, Inc., is also a University of Michigan employee, this purchase falls under the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies and Soar Technology, Inc.
2.   The service to be provided is placement of a student intern at a cost of $6,000 per
intern.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Laird, a University of Michigan
employee, is a board member of Soar Technology, Inc.
Approval of Payment for Ann Arbor IT Zone
The Regents approved a payment by the Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies for
services from Ann Arbor IT Zone. Because Kenneth Nisbet, chair of the board of
directors of Ann Arbor IT Zone, is also a University of Michigan employee, this purchase
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies and Ann Arbor IT Zone.
2.   The service to be provided is placement of a student intern at a cost of $6,000 per
intern.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Nisbet, a University of Michigan
employee, is chair of the board of directors of Ann Arbor IT Zone.
Research Agreement with Omni Sciences, Inc.
The Regents approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan
and Omni Sciences, Inc., to perform research under a prime contract between Omni
Sciences, Inc., and the Army Research Office under the Small Business Technology
Transfer Program Phase I. Because Dr. Mohammed N. Islam, owner of Omni Sciences,
Inc., is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to this agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences and Omni Sciences, Inc.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement conform to University policy. The project is to
be conducted over a six-month period at an estimated cost of $35,720. The subcontract
includes a provision for extensions of the time and period of scope of work and is
likely to be followed by a Phase II agreement. University of Michigan procedures for
approval of these changes will be followed as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Islam, an employee of the
University of Michigan, is owner of Omni Sciences, Inc.
Subcontract Agreement with ElectroDynamic Applications, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with ElectroDynamic Applications,
Inc. for funding a project in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. Because Drs.


10




July Meeting, 2004


Alec Gallimore and Brian Gilchrist, co-founders and co-owners of ElectroDynamic
Applications, Inc., are also University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under
the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to this agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
ElectroDynamic Applications, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
for the project is seventeen (17) months, and the amount of funding support is
$449,997.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Drs. Gallimore and Gilchrist,
employees of the University of Michigan, are co-owners and co-founders of
ElectroDynamic Applications, Inc.
License Agreement Amendment with GoKnow, Inc.
The Regents approved an amendment to an existing license agreement with
GoKnow, Inc. for UM File Nos. 2873, 2874, 2875, and 2876. Because Drs. Elliot
Soloway, Ronald Marx, Joseph Krajcik, and Phyllis Blumenfield hold equity interest in
GoKnow, Inc., and are also University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under
the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to this agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
GoKnow, Inc.
2.   Licensing terms include addition of UM File Nos. 2873, 2874, 2875, and 2876 to the
existing license agreement and assignment of rights to certain trademarks associated
with these files. All other terms of the license will remain unchanged. The University
will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to further develop
it and use it for research and academic purposes.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Drs. Soloway, Marx, Krajcik, and
Blumenfield, employees of the University of Michigan, hold equity interest in
GoKnow, Inc.
FY 2005 Athletic Department Operating Budget
Athletic Director Bill Martin next presented the FY 2005 Athletic Department
operating budget. He noted that in 2003 the graduation rate for Michigan student-athletes
(82%) was almost the same as that for the general student body (84%). In the area of
athletic performance, he reported that Michigan had come in second to Stanford
University in the prestigious Directors Cup for 2003-04, and that Michigan had won 8 Big
Ten championships and the CCHA hockey championship. Seven of the Big Ten
championships were won by women's teams.
Mr. Martin reviewed historical financial trends and the FY 2003-2004 financial
performance for the Athletic Department. Since 2001, the department has maintained
an operating surplus, with a projected surplus for 2003-2004 of about $8.0 million. The
projected surplus for 2004-2005 will be about $2.3 million. He reviewed revenues and
expenses for FY 2003-2004 and noted that projected revenues from gifts increased by
more than 26%. Increased sales of student football tickets have led to a decrease in
ticket revenue due to the lower price charged for these tickets.         However, he
emphasized that student ticket demand will continue to be fulfilled. He also pointed out


11




July Meeting, 2004


that expenses are impacted by the need for the department to fund out-of-state tuition
for the 70% of student athletes who are not Michigan residents.
Mr. Martin noted that the balance sheet is in good shape, with $11.7 million in
operating reserves, $25 million in scholarship endowment, a quasi-endowment fund of
$16 million, and a deferred maintenance fund which provides a stable resource for
facility renewal.
Mr. Martin noted that the work plan for Fiscal Year 2004-2005 includes
implementation of the priority seating program, construction of the Academic Center,
continued focus on fundraising for capital projects and scholarship endowment, and
continued study and analysis of press box and stadium renovation.
Regent White left the meeting at this point, at 2:55 p.m.
Medical School Update
Provost Courant noted that Dean Lichter had recently been reappointed for another
five-year term as dean of the Medical School and observed that the school had recently
been reaccredited with extraordinarily high scores. Executive Vice President Kelch
commented that the school is thriving under Dean Lichter's leadership, and that he has
never been part of a reaccreditation review  that had received such strong
recommendations.
Dean Lichter noted that the Medical School, the Hospitals and Health Centers, and
M-Care have been integrated into a single organization, the University of Michigan
Health System, which, through its executive group, reviews all major decisions,
allocates resources, settles issues among the main units, and sets a unified strategy.
Dean Lichter described the new Medical School curriculum that was implemented in
2003-04 and noted that it features earlier clinical experiences and is web-enhanced for
distance and time-independent learning.  He described the "Family Centered
Experience" in which pairs of students are matched with volunteer patient families for
ongoing home visits and discussions of experiences with chronic or serious illness.
Following each home visit, students participate in theme-based discussions facilitated
by trained faculty.
Dean Lichter noted that this past year the Medical School had undergone a review
by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) which resulted in an
extraordinarily positive review. He described some of the areas of research currently
underway in which the Medical School is a national leader. He noted that in 2003 the
Medical School ranked 1lth among medical schools in NIH funding in a field of
extraordinarily stiff competition and described how these rankings have changed over
time among the leading institutions. Dean Lichter expressed excitement about progress
being made toward completion of the Biomedical Sciences Research Building (BSRB),
but he noted that a good deal of additional space is still needed to house the expanding
research faculty who have been recruited.
Dean Lichter then turned to measures that can be used to assess the quality of
clinical operations, which include process, outcome, safety, and appropriateness. In all
of these measures, the University is at or near the top of the scale compared to other
leading institutions. In addition, the Medical School was ranked seventh in a recent
national ranking. He expressed confidence that in all of the areas discussed the


12




July Meeting, 2004


University of Michigan Medical School will advance further and continue to enhance
its reputation in the years to come.
A five-minute break followed, from 3:20-3:25 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: David Johnson, student, Steven Albee-Scott, student, John Norton, student, on
changes in family housing; Jim Mogensen, citizen, on the town-gown relationship; Carol
Dunitz, alumna, on her book, Louder Than Thunder; Mark Hindelang, student and
president of the University Activities Center (UAC), on the Regents' support of UAC; and
David Boyle, alumnus, on second-best SAPAC solutions.
Committee Reports
Regent McGowan announced committee appointments for the coming year. Regent
Brandon will continue as chair of the Finance, Audit and Investment Committee, and
Regent Maynard will continue as chair of the Compensation and Personnel Committee.
She stated that, in general, the committee chair assignments will circulate among the
Regents, but given the current juncture of each committee in pursuing its work, she felt it
was important that the current leadership remain in place for the coming year. The other
members of the Finance, Audit and Investment Committee will be Regent White and
Regent Taylor. Regent Richner and Regent Deitch will serve on the Compensation and
Personnel Committee.
Finance, Audit, and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning and that both Regent White and Regent Taylor had
been present. The committee received a regular bimonthly update from the interim
director of University audits, Fred White, who assured the committee that there were no
irregularities and that he was receiving a high level of cooperation from the
administration. Other topics included a review of risk management and an update on
the Sarbannes-Oxley work plan. He reported that the committee was continuing work
on a draft of a new, more comprehensive charter.
Compensatiion and Personnel Committee. Regent Maynard reported that she
and Regent Richner had met that morning; Regent Deitch had been unable to attend.
They met with the president and provost to discuss processes established for succession
within the University leadership, and began discussion of a work plan for September
2004.
The Regents then turned to the regular agenda.
inutes Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the meeting
of June 17, 2004.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report, the
Plant Extension Report, the Quarterly Report on Non-Competitive Purchases over
$5,000 from Single Sources, and the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report.
Regarding the Plant Extension report, Executive Vice President Slottow reported that
since the installation of the million-gallon storm water retention basin under the Palmer


13




July Meeting, 2004


Drive parking deck and the new storm water collection system on North Campus, no
flooding has occurred and sediment has been removed from the discharge that flows
into the Huron River.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.    Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of projects
established, June 1-June 30, 2004. He updated the Board on research expenditures and
noted that the University ranked third nationally in 2001 and second in 2002. He
displayed charts showing that the University's technology transfer activities have
increased in a variety of measures, including disclosures, the number of patents issued,
license agreements, and new business startups. Total revenues have increased from
$3.5 million in 1999 to $11.7 million in 2003.
Vice President Ulaby observed that so far this year, total research expenditures
have increased about 1.4%, but federal spending for research has dropped significantly
and will continue to do so next year. To compensate, the number of research proposals
submitted by University researchers has increased significantly. He reviewed federal
research expenditure projections for FY 2005 and noted that the overall budget will
decrease about 4%. Challenges include greater competition among universities and the
fact that less money is available at the University to invest in facilities and
infrastructure.
University of Michigan Health System. No additional report was submitted.
Division of Student Affairs. No additional report was submitted.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. No additional report was submitted.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas reported that Professor Richard
Gull had been selected as the 2004 recipient of the University's Jackie Lawson
Memorial Award, which recognizes exceptional distinction in faculty governance
service.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. MSA President Jason Mironov informed
the Regents about the Housing Information Storage Center, an MSA-sponsored website
containing information about off-campus housing. He noted that, for a number of
reasons, there are major problems with off-campus housing, and the website is meant to
alleviate many of these problems. The website will include reviews of off-campus
housing units by students who have lived in them, along with advertisements by
landlords about their units.
Voluntary Support. Vice President May noted that the reports for Fiscal Year
2003-04 and for June and July 2003 will be submitted at the September meeting. He
called attention to the recent gift from Edwin and Mary Meader in support of the Kelsey
Museum.
Personnel Actions Reports. Provost Courant submitted the following personnel
actions. He noted that five faculty members were being recommended for appointment
as distinguished university professor and said that it is one of the highest honors that the
University bestows.


14




July M/eeting, 20)04


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on September 1, 2004, unless otherwised indicated
Clark, William Roberts, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Cole, Joshua H., Ph.D., Associate Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Goodson, Theodore, III., Ph.D., Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Keating, Daniel P., Ph.D., Director, Center for Human Growth and Development, Professor of
Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, and Professor of Psychiatry, without tenure, Medical
School, July 1, 2004
Skinner, Christopher M., Ph.D., Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on August 1, 2004- July 31, 2007
Kapila, Yvonne L., D.D.S., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Gruber, Stephen B., Associate Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Herman, William H., Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Mestas, Juan E., Chancellor, University of Michigan-Flint, September 20, 2004-September 19, 2009
Richards, Julia E., Associate Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Simkani, Mehrdad, Chair, Department of Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Barnes, Roy C., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Sociology,
Anthropology, and Criminal Justice, also appointed Assistant Dean, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, June 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Canning, Kathleen M., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Women's
Studies, without tenure, also appointed Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004
Gaither, Caroline A., Associate Professor of Social and Administrative Sciences, with tenure, also
appointed Chair, Department of Social and Administrative Sciences, College of Pharmacy,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Smith, Beverley A., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department
of Sociology, Anthropology, and Criminal Justice, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
August 15, 2004-June 30, 2007
Stefanac, Stephen J., Clinical Professor of Dentistry also appointed Associate Dean for Patient Services,
School of Dentistry, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2009
Von Eschen, Penny M., from Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure, to Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of American Culture, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004


15




July M/eeting, 20)04


ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishment of twenty Distinguished University Professorships, August 1, 2004
Renaming Existing Colleiate Professorsips
Charles M. Butter Collegiate Professorship in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 1, 2004
From Elizabeth M. Douvan Collegiate Professorship to Elizabeth M. Douvan Collegiate Professorship in
Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2004
From Philip J. Elving Professorship in Chemistry to Philip J. Elving Collegiate Professorship in
Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2004
M. Kent Jennings Collegiate Professorship in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, August 1, 2004
Joaquin M. Luttinger Collegiate Professorship in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 1, 2004
Establishing Endowed Professorships
Helen F. and Marvin M. Kirsh Professorship in Cardiac Surgery, Medical School, July 15, 2004
Norman M. Leff Assistant Professorship in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 1, 2004
Thomas B. and Nancy Upjohn Woodworth Professorship in Bipolar Disorder and Depression, Medical
School, July 15, 2004
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointments to DistinguishedUniver si' Proesoorshi
Bhattacharya, Pallab K., Charles M. Vest Distinguished University Professor of Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science, College of Engineering, September 1, 2004
Faeth, Gerard M., Arthur B. Modine Distinguished University Professor of Aerospace Engineering,
College of Engineering, September 1, 2004
Leonard, Joanne, Diane M. Kirkpatrick and Griselda Pollock Distinguished University Professor of Art
and Women's Studies, School of Art and Design and College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004
Ludwig, Martha L., J. Lawrence Oncley Distinguished University Professor of Biological Chemistry,
Medical School, September 1, 20004
Yocum, Charles F., Alfred S. Sussman Distinguished University Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and
Developmental Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004
Appointments to Endowed Professorships
Beckwith, Sarah T., Norman Freehling Visiting Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-May 31, 2005
Bogin, Barry A., William E. Stirton Professor, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
September 1, 2004-June 30, 2009
Appointment to a Named Professorship
Lindeboom, Maarten, The Netherlands Visiting Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
ReaMointm ent to a Collegiate Professorshi
Kopelman, Raoul, Kasimir Fajans Collegiate Professor of Chemistry, Physics, and Applied Physics,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Reappointments to Named Professorships
Eisenberg, Rebecca S., Robert and Barbara Luciano Professor of Law, Law School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Frier, Bruce W., Henry King Ransom Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Meezan, William A., Marion Elizabeth Blue Professor of Children and Families, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Schneider, Carl E., Chauncey Stillman Professor for Ethics, Morality, and the Practice of Law, Law
School, September 1-August 31, 2004


16




July M/eeting, 20)04


Other Transactions
Authorization for approval of necessary interim appointments during August, August 1-31, 2004
Campbell, Myron K., Chair, Department of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-June 30, 2009
From Assistant Dean for Patient Services to Associate Dean for Patient Services, School of Dentistry, July 1, 2004
Pearson, Sheryl S., Associate Dean, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
Quint, Elisabeth H., Assistant Dean for Clinical Faculty, Medical School, August 15, 2004
Weber, Walter J., Jr., from Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, and Professor
of Chemical Engineering, without tenure, to Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering,
without tenure, and Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2004
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics
Rattner, Richard D., Alumni Representative, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007, vice Richard Katcher, term
expired
Universiti ofMichigan Hospitals Executive Board
Mulholland, Michael W., Medical Staff Representative, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008, vice Timothy R. B.
Johnson, term expired
University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
Bogin, Barry A., September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007, vice Dan J. Swift, term expired
Hoft, Margret H., September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007, vice David A. James, term expired
University OfA:ichigan-Dearborn School of Education Executive Coimmittee
Hirshorn, Seth I., September 1-December 31, 2004, vice Belinda D. Lazarus, on sabbatical leave
Moyer, Richard H., September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007, vice Mary Trepanier-Street, term expired
CORRECTION OF COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
University of Michigan-Flint Citizens Advisory Committee
Beresford, Thuli, reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
Emerson, Bob, reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
Fullerton, Judith, reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
Herman, Tim, reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
Saab, Ghassan, reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
Sharbaugh, Kathryn, reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
Spears, Julius, Jr., reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
Taylor, Tom, reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
(previously reported as UM-Flint, Community Advisory Board Television, Channel 28 Executive Committee)
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted the following personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Aribarg, Anocha, Ph.D., Lecturer in Marketing, School of Business Administration, June 1-August 31, 2004
Baukus, Mary J., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 1-August 31, 2004
Bichakjian, Christopher K., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dermatology, Medical School,
June 1, 2004-May 31, 2011
Chimera, Beth A., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 1-June 30, 2004
Evans, Alicia D., J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Harrington, John J., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Hohn, Donovan M., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 2004


17




July M/eeting, 20)04


Huls, Tara A., Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint School of Education and
Human Services, May 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Khan, Gazala N., M.B.B.S., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
May 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Lacey, Bruce E., M.A., Lecturer II in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Lustig, Cindy A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
MacGregor, Terrance W., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Miner-Rubino, Kathi N., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 1-June 30, 2004
Moghtader, Jeremy K., B.S., Lecturer I in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2004
Novitch, Bennett G., Ph.D., Lecturer in Cell and Developmental Biology, Medical School,
June 1-August 31, 2004
Reynolds, David L., Jr., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Rudenko, Gabrielle, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, Medical School,
April 1, 2004-March 31, 2005
Salamen, Omar J., D.D.S., Clinical Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Samy, Waheed A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 1-August 31, 2004
Somers, Emily C., M.S., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2004
Starke, Barbara A., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 1-August 31, 2004
Strand, Carolyn R., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 2004
Sweier, Domenica G., D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
May 31, 2004-April 30, 2007
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Alvaez, David J., Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine also appointed Clinical Assistant
Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, March 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Barron, Paul D., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature also appointed Lecturer II in Sweetland
Writing Center, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Hass, Kristin A., from Lecturer II to Assistant Professor of American Culture, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Keep, Richard F., Crosby-Kahn Collegiate Professor of Neurosurgery and Neuroanatomy and Associate
Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, without tenure, also appointed Professor of
Neurosurgery, with tenure, Medical School, June 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Kutcher, Jeffrey S., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical School,
May 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Novitch, Bennett G., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, Medical
School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Becker, Marjorie C., Assistant Professor Emerita of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical
School, July 1, 2004-June 2005
Cole, Theodore M., Professor Emeritus of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
July 18, 2004-July 17, 2005
Counsell, Raymond E., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School, and Professor Emeritus of
Medicinal Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Greenberg, Robert G., Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Karnopp, Bruce H., Associate Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
June 1-August 31, 2004
Robinson, Emerson, Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Sisson, James C., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2004-August 31, 2005


18




July Meeting, 2004
w


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Abelson, James L., Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Bernsten, Janice G., Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Chari, Anusha, Assistant Professor of Finance, School of Business Administration, personal leave,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Eisenberg, Rebecca S., Robert and Barbara Luciano Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure,
Law School, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2005
Fossum, Paul R., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of Education,
sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2004
Gordenier, Jennifer E., Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, with tenure, Medical School,
sabbatical leave, August 1-September 30, 2003
Herzog, Donald J., Edson R. Sunderland Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, and Professor of Political Science, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Hills, Roderick M., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, outside teaching leave,
September 1-December 1, 2004, and January 1-June 1, 2005
Hines, James R., Jr., Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, School of Business Administration,
Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of
Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 2004
Lewis, Robert E., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough, January 1-May 31, 2003
Logue, Kyle D., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, outside teaching leave,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Marsh, Patricia A., Clinical Instructor in Family Medicine, Medical School, extended sick leave,
April 21-July 25, 2004
Meerkov, Semyon M., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College
of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Pearson, Christopher A., Assistant Professor of Physics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Periard, Mary E., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Health Professions
and Studies, retirement furlough, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Primus, Richard A., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, outside teaching leave, January 1-May 15, 2005,
and September 1, 2005-May 15, 2006
Rand, Stephen C., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, and Professor of Applied Physics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Rosano, Michael J., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, July 1-December 31, 2004
Sears, Elizabeth L., Professor of History of Art, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2004
Weston, Peter K., Frank G. Millard Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School,
outside teaching leave, September 1-December 31, 2004, and scholarly activity leave, January
1-June 30, 2005
White, James J., Robert A. Sulliavan Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School,
outside teaching leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Winick, Kim A., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Zink, Brian J., Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, January 1-July 1, 2003
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated.Resigned
Anand, Jaideep, Assistant Professor of Corporate Strategy and International Business, School of Business
Administration, June 30, 2004


19




July Meeting, 2004
w


Bean, James C., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
May 31, 2004
Blakemore, Laurel C., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Brabec, Elizabeth A., Associate Professor of Landscpare Architecture, without tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, May 31, 2004
Brown, Richard B., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, May 31, 2004
Burton, David L., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, May 31, 2004
Damien, Paul, Associate Professor of Satistics and Management Science, with tenure, School of Business
Administration, June 30, 2004
Ewer, Steven M., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 29, 2004
Forauer, Andrew R., Clinical Associate Professor of Radiology, Medical School, June 18, 2004
Hiebert, Elfrieda H., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, May 31, 2004
Hong, Ming, Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Marquez, Aurelia M. Carranza, Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2004
Oxley, Joanne E., Assistant Professor of Corporate and International Business, School of Business
Administration, June 30, 2004
Park, Ju-Hee, Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2004
Priester, Joseph R., Assistant Professor of Marketing, School of Business Administration, June 30, 2004
Ratanatharathorn, Voravit, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, June 13, 2004
Reid, Pamela T., Professor of Psychology, without tenure, School of Education, May 31, 2004
Roosevelt, Dirck, Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, June 30, 2004
Sinha, Praveen, Associate Professor of Accounting, without tenure, UM-Flint School of Management,
June 4, 2004
Stoffel, Elena M., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 25, 2004
Tempest, Snejana, Assistant Professor of Russian Pedagogy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 2004
Travagli, Renato A., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, and Associate Professor
of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, without tenure, Medical School, June 22, 2004
Retired
Cameron, George D., III, Professor of Business Law, with tenure, School of Business Administration,
June 30, 2004
Eklund, Stephen A., Professor of Dental Public Health, with tenure, School of Public Health, May 31, 2004
Foss, Peggy J., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Dearborn School of Education, June 30, 2004
Glover, Roy A., Associate Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, with tenure, Medical School,
June 30, 2004
Moody, David B., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 2004
Neal, David L., Assistant Professor of Social Work, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Ryan, Michael J., Professor of Marketing, with tenure, School of Business Administration, June 30, 2004
Smith, Edward E., Arthur W. Melton Distinguished Professor of Psychology and Professor of
Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2004
Terinm Completed
Asgari, Mahdi, T.H. Hilderbrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Assistant Professor
of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2004
Bardizbanian, Philippe, Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, April 30, 2004
Beel-Bates, Cynthia A., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, June 15, 2004
Bolt, Michael D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Champagne, Michele H., Lectuerer II in English Language and Literture and Lecturer II in Sweetland
Writing Center, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2004
Davis, Kirk L., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature and Lecturer II in Sweetland Writing
Center, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2004
Dimaraki, Eleni V., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, May 30, 2004
Goncharov, Yevgeny, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Gorodnik, Alexander, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2004


20




July M/eeting, 20)04


Hacking, Paul A., T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Assistant Professor
of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2004
Hersh, Patricia L., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Houghteling, Sara W., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature and Lecturer II in Sweetland
Writing Center, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2004
Johnston, Hans E., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Melo, Beatriz A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, April 30, 2004
Nevins, Thomas A., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2004
Pagni, Charlotte F., Lecturer III in English Language and Literature and Lecturer III in Sweetland
Writing Center, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2004
Pousaz, Lionel A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, April 30, 2004
Reed, John W., Thomas M. Cooley Professor Emeritus of Law and Professor Emeritus of Law, Law
School, April 30, 2004
Roitman, Michael, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Schippers, Eric D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Stalport, Christelle, Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, April 30, 2004
Tra, Yolande V., Lecturer II in Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2004
Wong, Paul, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
September 30, 2004
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted 3 faculty retirement
memoirs.
George D. Cameron, III, J.D., Ph.D., professor of business law in the School of
Business Administration, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2004.
Professor Cameron received his B.A. (1953) and M.A. (1962) degrees from Kent
State University and his J.D. (1969) and Ph.D. (1975) degrees from the University of
Michigan. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as a lecturer in 1971 and was
promoted to professor in 1976.
From the beginning, Professor Cameron distinguished himself as an outstanding
teacher with enviably high teaching ratings, and he has been a cornerstone of the
business law curriculum    for B.B.A. and M.B.A. students for over two decades. He
received the students' award for teaching excellence several times as well as the B.B.A.
alumni best teacher award and the State of Michigan Undergraduate Teaching Award.
In 1998, Professor Cameron's course in enterprise organization law (LHC 306) was
named the best course on campus by the Michigan Daily. He was also named among
the school's outstanding faculty in the Business Week Guide to the Best Business
Schools.
Professor Cameron's research activity focused on Korean law, Soviet commercial
law, jurisdiction over international corporations, and Chinese law. Within the
University, he served on the Faculty Senate, the Civil Liberties Board, the Senate
Advisory Committee on University Affairs, and the University-wide Faculty Grievance
Board.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming George D. Cameron, III,
professor emeritus of business law.


21




July Meeting, 2004


David B. Moody, Ph.D., professor of psychology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and research professor in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute,
retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2003.
A native of New York, Professor Moody received his B.A. degree from Hamilton
College in 1962 and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Columbia University in 1964 and
1967, respectively. He pursued postdoctoral research at the University of Michigan's
Kresge Hearing Research Institute and joined the faculty as a lecturer in psychology
and a research associate in 1968. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1970,
associate research scientist in 1979, associate professor in 1980, professor in 1989, and
senior research scientist (now research professor) in 1997. He was an assistant
professor of otorhinolaryngology from 1970-79.
Professor Moody is considered a leading expert in the use of behavioral training
techniques for the assessment of auditory function in animal subjects. His early
investigations focused on discovering the relationship between hearing loss and damage
to the inner ear. These studies resulted in the development of procedures through which
various aspects of auditory perception could be assessed in non-verbal subjects. An
outgrowth of this work was a research program that evaluated specializations for
dealing with biologically relevant communication signals in non-human primates.
More recently, Professor Moody employed behavioral procedures to assess the
functional effects of various interventions to restore function to the deaf inner ear. In
addition to his research, he trained a number of students and fellows in the field of
hearing studies and participated in other areas of the teaching program in the
Department of Psychology.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming David B. Moody
professor emeritus of psychology and research professor emeritus.
Michael J. Ryan, D.B.A., professor of marketing in the School of Business
Administration, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2004.
Professor Ryan received his B.S. and M.B.A. degrees from Xavier University in
1969 and 1971, respectively, and his D.B.A. degree from the University of Kentucky in
1974. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an associate professor in 1981
and was promoted to professor in 1984.
Professor Ryan's major interests are in marketing management and theory,
strategic marketing planning, industrial marketing, sales management, customer
satisfaction, and linking quality, satisfaction, and profitability. He has numerous
refereed articles, book chapters, and conference proceedings to his credit, and he was an
early pioneer in the field of customer satisfaction preferences and statistical
measurement.
Professor Ryan has been a dedicated and effective teacher in all of the school's
degree programs, including the Global MBA program, the Multidisciplinary Action
Projects (MAP), and the Executive Education Program, in which he has been teaching
since its inception. He has served on numerous School of Business Administration
committees, including doctoral committees, the executive committee, and the
curriculum committee. He served as the chair of the school's marketing area from
1995-2000.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Michael J. Ryan professor
emeritus of marketing.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported this month.


22




July Meeting, 2004


Degrees. Provost Courant submitted for approval the final degree lists for the
spring 2004 commencements and changes to previously approved degree lists.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by
Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Alternative Asset Commitments (Summit Subordinated Debt Fund III, L.P.)
Executive Vice President Slottow informed the Regents about the commitment of
$10 million to Summit SubDeb III, L.P., a private equity limited partnership.
Alternative Asset Commitments (Merit Energy Partners X, L.P., and EnCap Energy
Capital Fund V, L.P.)
Executive Vice President Slottow informed the Regents about recent follow-on
energy commitments of $25 million to Merit Energy Partners X, L.P., and $30 million to
EnCap Energy Capital Fund V, L.P.
Absolute Return Investment (Protegd Partners)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved Prot6g6 Partners as an absolute return investment with initial
funding of up to $60 million.
Absolute Return Investment (Lazard Emerging Income)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved Lazard Emerging Income with initial funding of up to $60 million.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Sprout Healthcare Venture I, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $20 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Sprout Healthcare Ventures I, L.P., a venture capital fund.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Formative Ventures Emerging Technologies Fund,
L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $10 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Formative Ventures Emerging Technologies Fund, L.P.
Athletic Department Events Center
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Athletic Department Events Center project as described in the
Regents Communication and authorized commissioning Rossetti Architects for its design.
Utility Tunnel Piping Project
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the Utility Tunnel Piping Project between the Central Power Plant
and the Victor Vaughn Building as described, authorized commissioning the firm of Black
and Veatch for its design and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.


23




July Meeting, 2004


Newberry Hall - Kelsey Museum Addition and Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the Newberry Hall - Kelsey Museum Addition and Renovation
Project as described and authorized commissioning Hammond Beeby Rupert Ainge
Architects, Inc., for its design.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Science Building Addition, Phase One of the
Science and Engineering Expansion and Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the University of Michigan-Dearborn Science Building
Addition Project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are
within the approved budget.
Perry Building Addition Project
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously authorized issuing the Perry Building Addition Project for bids and
awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Institute for Social Research Chiller Replacement
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a chiller replacement project for the Institute for Social Research
as described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for bids
and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Vacant Lot in Rochester Hills, Michigan
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved accepting a gift of a vacant 0.47-acre unimproved lot in Rochester
Hills, Michigan, which would then be sold as described in the Regents Communication.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) C.S. Mott
Children's Hospital Pediatric Cardiology Biplane Catheterization Laboratory
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) C.S. Mott Children's Hospital Pediatric Cardiology Biplane Catheterization
Laboratory Project as described, authorized commissioning the architectural firm of
HarleyEllis for its design, and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Lapeer Street Annex Building, Flint, Michigan
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved sale of the Lapeer Street Annex Building in Flint, Michigan, for
the negotiated price of $375,000 upon terms and conditions acceptable to the University.
Reappointment of Juan Mestas as Chancellor of the University of Michigan-Flint
President Coleman noted that the personnel actions had included a recommendation
for the reappointment of Juan Mestas as chancellor of the University of Michigan-Flint for


24




July M/eeting, 20)04


a second five-year term. She said that Chancellor Mestas' reappointment had been the
subject of an enthusiastic editorial by the Flint Journal, and she said she was very pleased
that he would be continuing to serve.
Merger of the Institute of Gerontology with the Geriatrics Center
Vice President Ulaby informed the Regents that the Institute of Gerontology has
been merged with the Geriatrics Center in the Medical School.
M-Care Bylaws
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved a revision to Article IV, Section 4.02, Paragraph 1 of the M-Care
bylaws, as described in the Regents Communication.
Michigan Health Corporation (MHC) Annual Business Plan
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the MHC FY 2005 annual business plan and budget.
New Degree Program, University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters ("Master of Arts in Public Policy")
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a new degree program, "Master of Arts in Public Policy," to be
offered by the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn.
Change in Name of "Bachelor of General Studies" program at University of
Michigan Flint to "Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies"
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a change in the name of the "Bachelor of General Studies" degree
program to "Bachelor of Interdisciplinary Studies," as described in the Regents
Communication.
New Degree Program, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
("Master of Science Degree in Computer and Information Systems")
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a new degree program, "Master of Science Degree in Computer
and Information Systems," to be offered in the College of Arts and Sciences at the
University of Michigan-Flint.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 2005
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the following meeting schedule for 2005:
January 20
February 17
March 17
April 21
May 19 (Held at UM-Dearbom)


25




July Meeting, 2004


June 16
July 21
September 15
October 21 (Friday) (Held at UM-Flint)
November 17
December 15
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:35 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for September 23, 2004.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


26




SEPTEMBER SPECIAL MEETING, 2004


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, September 9, 2004
The Regents convened at 7:30 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Regents Brandon,
Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner, Taylor, and White participated by
conference telephone, as did Provost Courant. President Coleman was present, as were
Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Vice
President May, Executive Vice President Slottow, Vice President and Secretary
Tedesco, and Vice President Wilbanks. Chancellor Little, Chancellor Mestas, Vice
President Rudgers, and Vice President Ulaby were absent. Dean Robert Dolan attended
as a guest.
President Coleman called the meeting to order and called the roll. All Regents
were present. She announced that the purpose of the meeting was to request that the
name of the School of Business Administration be changed to the Stephen M. Ross
School of Business. She noted that the school is recognized as an international leader in
business education and is consistently praised by the leading business publications as
being one of the best business schools in the world. It offers a unique, interdisciplinary,
team-oriented, action-based approach to learning and is particularly strong in
international education.
Under Dean Dolan's leadership, she noted, the school has been committed to
melding theory and practice, and graduates are highly praised for their excellent
education. The Board is being asked to rename the school the Stephen M. Ross School
of Business in honor of Mr. Stephen M. Ross, who is providing $100 million to the
school, where he earned his bachelor's degree in 1962. President Coleman pointed out
that this is the most generous gift in the history of the University and will provide
transformative possibilities for the school.
Regent Deitch moved to rename the University of Michigan School of Business
Administration the Stephen M. Ross School of Business. Regent White seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The Regents expressed their congratulations to Dean Dolan.
The meeting adjourned at 7:35 a.m.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


27




September Meeting, 2004


28




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 2004


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, September 23, 2004
The Regents convened at 2:15 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner, and
White. Also present were Provost Courant, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice
President Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice President May,
Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice President Slottow, Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Regent Taylor was absent.
Call to Order
President Coleman began the meeting by welcoming members of the University of
Michigan community who participated in the 2004 Olympics in Athens, Greece, either as
athletes or coaches. She noted that Regent McGowan would be presenting a resolution on
behalf of the board.
Regent McGowan welcomed the following students and Athletics Department
staff to the podium: Men's swimming: Andrew Hurd (student), 800 meter freestyle
relay, Team Canada; Peter Vanderkaay (student), Gold Medal in 800-meter freestyle
relay; Tom Malchow, 200-meter butterfly; Bob Bowman, Olympics assistant coach and
UM head coach, 2004-present; Jon Urbanchek, Olympics assistant coach and UM
men's swimming head coach, 1983-2004. Men's track: Tim Broe (UM volunteer
coach), 5,000 meter run; Nick Willis (student), 1,500 meter run, Team New Zealand;
Ron Warhurst, UM men's track coach; and Bill Martin, UM athletic director, former
board member and acting president of U.S. Olympic Committee, 2003-2004. [Dan
Ketchum, who graduated in 2004 and won a gold medal in the 800-meter freestyle
relay, was recognized but not present.]
Regent McGowan read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan applaud the 16
members of the University of Michigan faimily who participated in the
Twenty-eighth Olympiad in Athens, Greece.
In sports ranging from rowing and swimming, to track, wrestling,
and the triathlon, the University was well-represented -- and represented
well -- by current andformer student athletes and coaches at the 2004
Olympic games.    We salute them for achieving the pinnacle of
recognition in their respective sports.
The Regents take great pride in Michigan's Olympic athletes of
the past, present, and future who have and will continue to so nobly
uphold the honor and tradition of the yellow and the blue.


29




September Meeting, 2004


A standing ovation followed. Coach Warhurst thanked the Board on behalf of all
of the resolution recipients. President Coleman again praised the athletes and coaches
and commented on how proud the University is of the volunteer service contributed by
Bill Martin to the U.S. Olympic Committee. She noted that after having led the
organization through a restructuring process, he graciously ceded his responsibilities
once the newly-formed leadership was in place.
A five-minute break followed.
President's Opening Remarks
President Coleman commented on the successful conclusion of the "Welcome
Week" activities for newly arriving students. She also called attention to the recent
recognition of the gift of $100 million from Stephen Ross for which the Regents had
approved renaming the School of Business Administration the Stephen M. Ross School of
Business, and she announced that this school had just been named the number one
business school in the nation by the Wall Street Journal.
President Coleman also discussed the recently-instituted advertising campaign
calling for the community to "Take a Stand Against Sexual Violence," and she
displayed some of the print advertisements that have been created to enforce this
message.
Residential Life Initiatives
President Coleman commented that Vice President Harper and Carole Henry,
assistant vice president for student affairs and director of housing, would next present the
results of a study on residence life and would outline a comprehensive, ten-year plan, for
major renovations to Michigan student housing. President Coleman noted that the
University's residence hall system currently does not adequately meet students' needs.
The goal is to create interactive neighborhoods within the residence halls to foster the
sense of community and also to expand the connections between students' residence lives
and academic lives. The residence system will be renewed in a way that supports
collaborative learning and living communities in a digital age.
President Coleman noted that as part of her presidential initiatives, she had
established a task force to recommend innovative approaches for linking students'
academic and residential experiences. These recommendations will be used to help
shape the renewal plan, which includes construction of a new residence hall, major
renovations to two existing halls, technology upgrades, new dining concepts, and
completion of life safety initiatives at a total cost of $250-$280 million. Specific
project requests will be submitted for approval later in the fall. She thanked Vice
President Harper, Assistant Vice President Henry, and the University Housing team for
their efforts and input into the planning process.
President Coleman introduced Vice President Harper, who announced that
following the presentation and discussion of the Residential Life Initiative findings and
recommendations, specific action items for each component in the plan would be
submitted in upcoming board meetings. She introduced Carole Henry, assistant vice
president and director of housing, and noted that she had led successful housing renewal
efforts at other institutions prior to her recent arrival at the University of Michigan.


30




September Meeting, 2004


Ms. Henry gave a slide presentation updating the Board on the Residential Life
Initiatives (RLI), which, she noted, is basically a master plan for student housing
covering a ten-year period through 2014. The plan's guiding principles include creating
inclusive, supportive communities that provide a variety of learning experiences and
foster connections between life inside and outside of the classroom. She pointed out
that University residence halls and dining halls are critical to the undergraduate
experience, and they provide a different experience than that provided by the private
housing sector.
The RLI's guiding principles include: 1) creating inclusive communities where
students participate fully and take responsibility; 2) fostering connections between the
in- and out-of-classroom experience; 3) supporting students in ways that are consistent
with the University's mission, ideals, and traditions; and 4) providing a variety of
learning experiences. She noted that the housing system currently consists of 17
residence halls, 5 apartment complexes, 12 dining halls, and 5 retail operations, with a
total of almost 4.7 million square feet and $89 million in revenue. These facilities were
built between 1915 and 1972 and are in need of renewal.
Ms. Henry reported that there is a certain baseline experience that the University
would like to provide for its students, and current facilities do not meet contemporary
standards related to technology, study space, privacy, and dining. Security, safety, and
accessibility also need updating. She noted that the undergraduate population has
increased by over 7.5% over the past 30 years but capacity has remained the same, at
about 9,600.  Because the University has historically guaranteed housing for all
first-year students, the size of the freshman class has an enormous impact on facility
configuration and program offerings. When the last residence hall was completed in the
late 1960s, the first year class averaged 4,500 students, as compared to 5,100 students
during the 1990s and almost 5,500 from 1999-2003.
Ms. Henry described the planning process that had been used to develop the
Residential Life Initiatives and noted that a broad range of input had been gathered.
Key findings are that there is a demand for more housing, especially among
undergraduate and single graduate students. The type of housing desired is suite and
apartment-style units, along with conveniently located dining facilities that have a wide
variety of quality food, combined with a convenience store or snack bar to supplement
the dining hall offerings. She pointed out that small dining facilities are inefficient and
more costly to operate than larger halls, and she noted that of the existing dining halls,
the two largest have the highest satisfaction rates among students.
Ms. Henry reported that the RLI analysis had yielded several planning guidelines.
These are that the University needs to reinvest in its current facilities to preserve them
for future generations; selected residence halls should be renovated in priority order,
although life safety upgrades will be made in all halls; construction of at least one
residence hall will be necessary to meet demand; and the renovation of existing housing
will result in units that meet contemporary standards, including suites or apartments, as
well as life safety, electrical, mechanical, and technology standards.
In renovation  and new    construction, the planning  guidelines state that
undergraduate students are the first priority; student experiences will be personalized


31




September Meeting, 2004


and will be in small, welcoming communities with clusters of 20-25 students.
Connections will be enhanced between experiences within and outside the classroom.
Preliminary recommendations in the ten-year plan for student housing, which will
cost between $250 million to $280 million, include construction of one or more new
residence halls on a site that will complement campus planning efforts. Two
architecturally distinctive buildings, Mosher-Jordan and Stockwell will be in the first
priority for renovation. Next in priority will be Barbour and Newberry Halls and West
Quad. Ongoing capital projects and improvements in the remaining facilities will
continue at an annual rate of $7 million to $10 million. Life safety improvements,
including fire alarm upgrades and installation of fire suppression systems, upgraded
wiring, and IT system improvements are also planned.
The RLI also includes major, comprehensive improvements in residential dining
facilities involving a substantial reconfiguration of dining operations to incorporate
contemporary lifestyle and menu preferences of the student population. These will
include "marketplace"-style facilities that are envisioned for new dining centers in the
"Hill" and central campus neighborhoods. In some residential neighborhoods there will
be supplemental retail operations, such as snack bars or convenience stores. There will
also be "emporiums," which are a blend of a restaurant and convenience store.
Ms. Henry displayed the preliminary planning calendar for programming, design,
and construction of the Residential Life Initiatives. They include completion of
programming and design of one of the Hill dorms, a new dining center/emporium, a
new residence hall, and fire alarm and suppression projects, along with installation of
fire alarm and fire suppression systems at certain halls by the end of the Fall Term,
2004. The preliminary calendar delineates other projected programming, design, and
construction projects through 2008. She noted that the projected opening date for the
first renovated residence hall, new residence hall, and new dining center is Fall 2008,
and she said that the design of the new and renovated spaces will remain flexible to
ensure their utility well into the future.
Regent Newman commented that throughout her ten years as a member of the
Board, she had been advocating for new housing on campus, and she asked when the
new hall is expected to be completed. Ms. Henry responded that the schedule calls for
the new hall to open in fall 2008, along with a new dining hall and a completely
renovated existing hall, either Mosher-Jordan or Stockwell. Regent Newman said that
the Regents have been urging the president to move forward with this project because
the need for new housing is long-standing.
Regent Deitch expressed agreement with Regent Newman's comments and noted
that most board members share her feelings about the urgency of the need for new
housing on campus. Regent Maynard observed that the board would like to see specific
recommendations as soon as the next meeting.
Regent McGowan asked for assurance that the new facilities would be flexible
enough to be able to adopt to the needs of students decades from today. Ms. Henry
responded that all of the facilities would be designed with flexibility and multi-purpose
use in mind, and said that this is one reason that new structures would not include
communal bathrooms. And she pointed out that all halls are constantly being renovated
and updated as part of the general maintenance process.


32




September Meeting, 2004


Regent Newman commented that consideration must also be given to ongoing
maintenance costs for these projects and questioned whether maintenance costs were
higher for apartment-style bathroom arrangements than for large communal bathrooms.
Ms. Henry responded that maintenance costs are often more favorable for smaller
bathrooms because students take ownership of them and that maintenance costs are
included in the overall project evaluation. President Coleman agreed that this is a
critical question and that financial operations staff continually take maintenance and
operational costs into account in planning new projects. Executive Vice President
Slottow added that the design teams for all new buildings include building services staff
who will be responsible for maintaining the buildings once they are built.
Regent Brandon expressed concern about the logistics of accomplishing major
renovations in existing residence halls.  Ms. Henry responded that during the
renovations of both Mosher-Jordan and Stockwell Halls, the halls (one at a time) would
be closed for a full year. The 450 beds lost would be made up, and capacity
maintained, by using some apartments in Northwood. Work such as roof replacements
can, with careful planning, be accomplished with minimal disruption to academic life.
She said that the manner in which capacity is used in such locations as Northwood can
be reallocated and reconfigured to suit undergraduate students.
It was noted that it is not anticipated that there would be a first-year class as large
as the current one, so the Northwood space currently being used to house all students
who wished to live on campus this year would be available to serve as surge space in
the future. Executive Vice President Slottow pointed out that previously it was thought
that new construction and renovations of existing buildings could not be done
simultaneously. But the creative use of existing space described by Ms. Henry has led
to the realization that this is not the case.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning and that both Regent White and Regent Taylor had been
present. The committee reviewed audit results for FY 04 with representatives of the
external auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers. He noted that it was an unqualified report and
that details of the audit would be discussed at the October meeting. The committee
members also met privately with the external auditors and were assured that there had
been a good level of cooperation, communication, and information exchange with internal
staff.
Regent Brandon reported that the committee had also reviewed a draft of a revised
committee charter that will eventually be brought to the full Board for consideration.
Compensation and Personnel Committee. Regent Maynard reported that the
committee, consisting of her, Regent Deitch, and Regent Richner had met that morning.
They first planned the committee's work calendar for 2004-05 and then reviewed
searches currently underway for four new deans and the process to be used for future
dean searches, in consultation with the president and provost.
The Regents then turned to the regular agenda.


33




September Meeting, 2004


Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the regular
meeting on July 15, 2004, and the special meeting on September 9, 2004.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Plant Extension Report
and the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.     Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of projects
established, July 1-August 31, 2004.
University of Michigan Health System. No additional report was submitted.
Division of Student Affairs. No additional report was submitted.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. No additional report was submitted.
University of Michigan-Flint. No additional report was submitted.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. MSA President Jason Mironov introduced
Mik Zolokoff, president of Rackham Student Government (RSG). Mr. Zolokoff
commented that RSG's goal this year would be to work on improving communication
among RSG, MSA, and the administration. Mr. Mironov also called on Pete Woiwode,
chair of "Voice Your Vote." Mr. Woiwode commented that a total of more than 5,000
new voters had been registered on the University of Michigan campus, including many
obtained from a door-to-door campaign in the residence halls. Ms. Jenny Nathan, vice
president of MSA, announced that MSA is sponsoring a visit by the documentary
filmmaker Michael Moore, and that it was attempting to bring talk-show host Sean
Hannity to campus. Ms. Nathan reported on activities sponsored by MSA during the
past month.
Voluntary Support.     Vice President May submitted Reports on Voluntary
Support for June, July, and August, 2004. He reported that giving to the University was
very strong during fiscal year 2003-04, with receipts up by about 15%. Campaign
giving has also been very strong for the first two months of the current fiscal year.
June:
Keith E. Alessi. Lexinaton. Vireina
for support in the School of Business Administration........................... $25,000
Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers. Inc.. Washington. D. C.
for suDDort in the Transoortation Research Institute..............................  140,615
E. Bryce Alnem. Bloomfield Hills
145 shares of Fannie Mae common stock
for sunDort in the Medical School.............................................10,125
Robert Aloem Trust
7.100 shares of AT&T Wireless Services. Inc.. common stock
for the Marge and Robert Alpern Fund in the Medical School....................... 101,388
A. L. S. Association. Woodland Hills. California
for research in the Medical School..................................... 10,000
American Cancer Society. Inc.. Atlanta. GeorHia
for support in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 91,529
American Diabetes Association. Inc.. Alexandria. Virginia
for research in the Division of Kinesiology and in the Medical School................. 342,615
American Israel Education Fund. Trov
for support in the School of Business Administration............................. 263,503


34




September Meeting, 2004


American Lung Association of Michigan. Lansing
for research in the Medical School............................................. 17,500
Americana Foundation. Inc.. Novi
for Center for Heritage Landscaping at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 25,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Life Sciences Institute................................50,000
Anonymous Donor
for suDDort at the University of Michigan-Flint................................ 10,000
Todd J. Anson. San Diego. California
368 shares of Genetech. Inc.. common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................  20,139
Applied Materials Foundation. Santa Clara. California
for research in the College of Ensineering..................................... 28,500
Ardis/Lueder Northern Lower Michigan. Cadillac
for scholarships in the School of Dentistry................................... 100,000
Arthritis Foundation. Atlanta. Georgia
for research in the Medical School............................................. 22,500
AstraZeneca LP. Wilmington. Delaware
for suDDort in the College of Pharmacy and the Medical School........................ 30,000
Lillian M. Baklarz. Allen Park
for the Lillian M. Baklarz Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Michigan League...................................................... 50,000
David J. Barger. New York. New York
2.700 shares of JetBlue Airways Corooration common stock
for scholarshins in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................79,070
Ruby M. Bens Estate
for research in the Medical School............................................ 222,417
Roger A. Bere. Short Hills. New Jersev
for the Ro er A. Berg, M. D. Radiology Endowment Fund in the Medical School.......... 25,000
James L. Betchek. Niles
for the James L. Betchek Endowed Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics... 22,000
Bickner Family Foundation. Sycamore. Illinois
for suDDort in the Division of Kinesioloyv.................................... 125,000
Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation. Battle Creek
for the Guido and Elizabeth Binda Student Fund in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.................. 25,000
A. G. Bishon Charitable Trust
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint................................  10,000
Borders. Inc.. Ann Arbor
for sunnort in the University Hosnitals and
for the University  Musical Society.............................................. 15,160
Bowl for Burns. Trenton
for research in the Medical School............................................. 41,500
Judson B. Branch Marital Trust
for support at the University  of M ichigan........................................  50,000
David A. Brandon Foundation. Ann Arbor
for sPDDort in the C. S. Mott Children's Hosnital................................10,000
Mary Woodruff Brennan. Auburndale. Massachusetts
for the Mary Huntington Woodruff Scholarshin in
the College of Literature. Science. and the Arts................................. 25,000
Michael N. Bucci. Greer. South Carolina
for the Neurosurgery Professorship in the Medical School........................... 10,000
Cairn Foundation. Ann Arbor
for scholarshins in the School of Music................................... 10,000
Jerry CaDizzi. Chicago. Ilinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics................................. 10,000
Carnegie Cornoration. New York. New York
for support in the School of Education..................................... 240,000
E. Rhodes and Leona B. Cairenter. Philadelnhia. Pennsylvania
for support in the Museum of Art............................................. 25,000
Annie E. Casev Foundation. Baltimore. Maryland
for research in the Institute for Social Research................................. 53,647
Caterpillar Foundation. Peoria. Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering and the School of Business Administration..... 103,000
Christine M. Caumartin Estate
for support in the School of Information..................................... 131,688
Pavan Chandra. West Bloomfield
for the Vrishin Chandra Endowment Fund in the Medical School....................... 10,715


35




September Meeting, 2004


Chicago Community Foundation. Chicago. Illinois
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 80,000
Chisbetts Foundation. Ann Arbor
for scholarshins and other sunnort in the School of Music and
for the University  Musical Society.............................................. 18,000
Mary Sue Coleman and Kenneth Coleman. Ann Arbor
for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Fellowship in
the Horace H. Rackham School of GraduateStudies.
for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Life Sciences Fund.
for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Undergraduate Scholarship,
for the Leslie Kish Fund in the Institute for Social Research,
for Trotter House. and
for the M useum  of Art Building  Project.......................................... 20,000
College on Problems of Drug Denendence. Inc.. Philadelnhia. Pennsvlvania
for research in the Medical School......................................... 10,764
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan. Detroit
for the Dare-to-Dream Program in the School of Business Administration............... 54,000
Community Foundation of Greater Flint. Flint
for sunnort at the University of Michigan-Flint............................... 11,161
John R. Crosbv Memorial Fund. Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hosoital Golf Classic Benefit Fund and
for support in the ComDrehensive Cancer Center............................... 12,700
DaimlerChrvsler Cornoration. Auburn Hills
for emnlovee matching gifts............................................. 51,650
Ivah L. DaLee Estate
for the Ivah L. DaLee Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering................. 32,500
James R. Donahev. Ann Arbor
for scholarshins in the Denartment of Athletics,
for suDDort in the Museum of Art. and
for the University  Musical Society.............................................. 34,000
Downriver University of Michigan Club. Trenton
for the Downriver University of Michigan Club Scholarshin Fund..................... 12,000
Camille and Henry Drevfus Foundation. Inc.. New York. New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 60,000
Ruth A. Duellman Estate
for the Mvles E. Duellman Memorial Fund and
the Duellman Graduate Student Research Fund in the College of Pharmacy............. 225,000
Gary H. Dwight. East Lansine
for the Chalmers J. Lyons Endowed Chair in the School of Dentistry.................. 15,000
Earhart Foundation. Ann Arbor
for support in the Bentley Historical Library.................................. 25,000
Educational Advancement Foundation. Austin. Texas
for suDDort in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 40,000
Virginia J. Ehrlicher Estate
for suDDort in the School of Information........................................  633,333
Embryon. Inc.. Somerville. New Jersev
for the Daniel Mikol Research Fund in the Medical School......................... 10,000
Richard E. En land Estate
for suDDnnort in the College of Eneineering and
for scholarshins in the School of Education......................................  121,500
S. Codv Engle. Chicaco. Illinois
for the Sylvia "Duffv" Enule Graduate Student Fellowshio in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 23,000
Ernst & Youne Foundation. New York. New York
for employee matching gifts............................................. 70,389
Federal-Moaul Corooration. Detroit
for support in the Transportation Research Institute..................  15,000
Kenneth C. Fisher. Ann Arbor
for sunnort in the Center for the Education of Women and the Museum of Art and
for the University Musical Society......................................................10,250
Roger Fitzsimonds. Milwaukee. Wisconsin
for the Ro er L. and Leona I. Fitzsimonds Endowed Research Fund in
the Medical School................................................... 50,000
Ford Motor Companv. Dearborn
for suoDDort in the Center for the Education of Women. the College of Eneineerine,
the Schools of Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment,
for the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy. and
for employee matching gifts............................................ 974,284


36




September Meeting, 2004


Ford Motor Comnanv. Dearborn
for sunnort in the College of Enaineerina.
for research in the School of En ineerinE at the University of Michigan-Dearborn,
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane. and
for the University  M usical Society.............................................  148,940
Forest Health Services. LLC. Ann Arbor
for supoort in the Deaartment of Athletics...................................... 175,000
Howard and Mariorie Fosler Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston. Massachusetts
for the Howard and Mariorie K. Fosler Scholarshin in
the College of Literature, Science. and the Arts................................... 29,000
Foundation for Fiahtine Blindness. Owinss Mills. Maryland
for research in the Medical School............................................ 108,750
Stanley and Judith Frankel Family Foundation. Trov
for sunDort in the School of Business Administration............................. 12,500
Edward R. Frohlich Trust
for the Edward P. Frohlich Piano Scholarship Fund in the School of Music............. 500,000
Beryl T. Galawav Estate
for scholarshins in the School of Information................................... 16,000
Galen Medical Society. Ann Arbor
for suDDort in the University Hospitals........................................... 55,000
Genevieve A. Gay. Flint
for the Genevieve Gay Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the University of Michigan-Flint............................................. 30,000
Gelman Educational Foundation. Ann Arbor
five life insurance nolicies
for the Charles and Rita Gelman Risk Science Professorshio in
the School of Public Health............................................. 1,080,885
General Electric ComDanv. Schenectadv. New York
for research in the College of Engineering..................................25,000
General Mills. Inc.. MinneaPolis. Minnesota
for support in the School of Business Administration............................  20,000
Gerontological Society of America. Washington. D. C.
for research in the School of Social Work.................................... 30,000
Douglas C. Gessner. Northbrook. Illinois
for scholarshios in the Deoartment of Athletics................................. 10,000
Globe Foundation. Scottsdale. Arizona
for the Innovations Initiative in the School of Business Administration................. 75,000
Eugene and Emily Grant Foundation. New York. New York
for the Eueene and Emily Grant Family Foundation Fund in the Division of Kinesiology,
for the Eueene and Emily Grant Scholarshin Fund in the School of Music,
for the Eueene and Emily Grant Scholarship in the School of
Natural Resources and Environment. and
for the Eugene and Emily Grant Scholarshin and
the Directors Strategic OnDortunities Fund in
the Colleee of Literature. Science. and the Arts................................... 100,000
Gussin Foundation. Inc.. New Brunswick. New Jersey
for the Robert and Patricia Gussin Endowed Fund and
for support of the Charles Ross Program in the Medical School...................... 11,000
Charles A. Harvev. Ann Arbor
for the EMBA Soeaker Series Endowment Fund and scholarshins in
the School of Business Administration.......................................... 10,000
Barnett C. Helzbera. Jr.. Kansas City. Missouri
for suDDort in the School of Business Administration............................. 25,000
Martha D. Hurst Estate
for the E. Richard Hurst Family Scholarshin Fund in
the Collese of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 128,070
Daniel K. Hussev. Snrinr Lake
for support in the Denartment of Athletics..................................... 16,667
Intel Corooration. Hillsboro. Ore on
for research in the Collee of Engineering................................... 126,000
Everett B. Ireland. Jr.. San Dieuo. California
4.066 units of Selected American mutual fund
for the Everett B. Ireland Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Everett B. Ireland Scholarship in the Center for the Education of Women............ 138,453
Joan P. Ireland. San Diego. California
2,115 shares of Merck & Co., Inc., common stock


37




September Meeting, 2004


for the Joan P. Ireland Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Joan Ireland Scholarship Endowed Fund in the Center for the Education of Women.. 100,051
Japan Foundation. New York. New York
for research in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy......................... 32,730
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. Princeton. New Jersey
for research in the Institute for Social Research. the School of Public Health.
the Medical School, and the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy................ 2.549,445
Mark Kahn Philanthronic Fund of the Jewish Federation of Metronolitan Detroit. Bloomfield Hills
for the Gavle Halnerin Kahn Professorship in the Medical School................... 1,000,000
Marvin C. Kanouse Estate
for the Maior McKinlev Ash Collegiate Professorshin and
for the Sigurd P. Ramfiord Endowed Visiting Lectureship in the School of Dentistry...... 27,432
Kenneth Keene. Brookfield. Connecticut
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 25,000
W. K. Kellosg Foundation. Battle Creek
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............................. 140,000
Virginia L. Kern Estate
for suDDort in the School of Business Administration............................. 10,500
Shake Ketefian. Ann Arbor
for the Shake Ketefian Endowed Scholarship Fund in the School of Nursing............ 25,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation. Petoskev
for suDDort in the Universitv Hosnitals.......................................... 14,852
Klein Family Foundation of the Metronolitan Philanthronic Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for the Dean's Fund for New Initiatives in Research in
the School of Business Administration......................................... 50,000
Victor L. Knowlton. Saginaw
11.225 units of Putnam Vista Fund mutual fund
for the Maior McKinley Ash Collegiate Professorship in the School of Dentistry......... 96,086
Vikki L. Lareau. Jackson Hole. Wvomine
for sunnort in the School of Public Health...................................... 15,904
Lear Cororation. Southfield
for support in the Department of Athletics....................................... 96,000
Eli Lilly & Comnanv Foundation. Indiananolis. Indiana
for suDDort in the College of Engineering and the School of Business Administration and
for emnlovee matching sifts..................................................  76,485
Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation. Inc.. New York. New York
for the Livingston Award for Young Journalists and
the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............................  40,625
L&W Eneineering Community Fund of the Community Foundation for
Southeastern Michigan. Detroit
for the Jones Family ExPendable Fund in the Medical School....................... 25,000
Dee and Fred Lyons Foundation of the Greater Kansas City Community Foundation,
Kansas City. Missouri
for suDDort in the College of Pharmacy....................................... 61,648
A. H. Maunus. Jr.. Bloomfield Hills
for the Magnus Family Scholarship Fund in the School of Business Administration........ 12,500
Mary Jo Maier. Punta Gorda. Florida
9.900 shares of Xerox cornoration common stock
for sunDort in the College of Engineering.................................. 139,590
Mary Jo Maier Trust
8.100 shares of Xerox cornoration common stock
for suDDort in the College of Engineering.....................................  114,210
Manzella Investment Company. Dexter
for suDDort in the College of Literature. Science. and the Arts and
for WUOMT............................................... 15,337
March of Dimes. Southfield
for research in the Schools of Dentistry and Medicine.................... 68,947
MASCO Cornoration Foundation. Tavlor
for scholarshins in the School of Business Administration and
for W FUM......................................................  27,500
James S. McDonnell Foundation. Saint Louis. Missouri
for research at the University of Michigan................................... 62,378
Mary Uniohn Meader. Kalamazoo
10.000 shares of Exxon Mobile Cornoration common stock
for support in the Medical School....................................... 445,675


38




September Meeting, 2004


Mediware Information Systems. Inc.. Lenexa. Kansas
for support in the University Hosnitals........................................... 25,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. New York. New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research............................. 150,000
Mellor Family Foundation. La una Beach. California
2.575 shares of General Dynamics Cororation common stock
for support in the College of Engineering...................................... 252,608
Michigan International SDeedwav. Brooklyn
for support in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital................................. 15,000
Margaret E. Miller Estate
for the Mar aret Miller Graduate Scholarshin Fund in the School of Art and Design,
for the Burton H. Miller Fund in the Clements Library,
for the Detroit Observatory Endowment Fund. and
for support in the College of Literature. Science. and the Arts..................... 1,000,000
Rose C. and Nathan L. Milstein Family Foundation. Indiananolis. Indiana
for the Nathan and Rose Milstein Research Fund in the Medical School................ 12,000
Michael and Colleen Monahan Fund of the Community Foundation for
Southeast Michi an. Detroit
for the Heinz C. Prechter Memorial Fund in the Medical School...................... 12,500
Paul L. Morini. Old Greenwich. Connecticut
for scholarshins in the Denartment of Athletics................................. 10,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation. Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint................................. 77,560
Muscular Dvstronhv Associations of America. Inc.. Tucson. Arizona
for research in the Medical School........................................... 17,177
NBC Entemrises. Inc.. Burbank. California
for the Robert and Heather Urich Research and Patient Care Endowed Fund in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................... 10,000
Nissan Research & Develonment. Inc.. Farminaton Hills
for sunnort in the TransDortation Research Institute................................ 15,000
Nobel Biocare USA. Inc.. Yorba Linda. California
for sunnort in the School of Dentistry..........................................50,000
Oliver Machinery ComDanv. Grand RaPids
for the Ralnh B. Baldwin Professorshin in Astronomy in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 300,000
George Orbits Trust
300 shares of Science ADDlications International Corooration common stock
for support in the University Hosoitals.....................................   11,202
Robert T. and Bonnie P. Paine. Albuaueraue. New Mexico
for the Paine Family Fund and the Herbert and Marcaret Boter TraDn Fund in
the College of Literature. Science, and the Arts................................. 10,000
Ambrose D. Pattullo Charitable Trust
for the Ambrose D. Pattullo Endowment Fund in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment and
for the Ambrose D. Pattullo Endowed Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 74,823
Pearl Family Fund of the Community Foundation for the National Capital Region,
Washinton.. D. C.
for support in the Medical School........................................... 25,000
Pfizer. Inc.. Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Pharmacy and the Museum of Art...................... 40,000
Pfizer. Inc.. New York. New York
for research in the Division of Kinesioloav and the Medical School and
for WFUM............................................................ 24,570
Heinz C. Prechter Fund for Manic Deoression. Southeate
11.348 shares of various coroorate common stock. coroorate bonds. and a cash gift,
for the Heinz C. Prechter BiPolar Research Fund in the Medical School and
for research in the Depression Center.......................... 644,120
Prostate Cancer Foundation. Santa Monica. California
for research in the Medical School........................................ 200,000
Janis A. Puravs Estate
for scholarshins in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 20,000
Ward L. Ouaal. Northfield. Illinois
for sunnort in the Department of Athletics......................  20,000
Grace J. Reese Trust
for the James J. Sficos Scholarship in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning................... 13,129


39




September Meeting, 2004


Research to Prevent Blindness. Inc.. New York. New York
for research in the Medical School........................................ 65,000
Margaret A. Riecker. Midland
for the Jean Campbell Research Fund in the Center for the Education of Women......... 20,000
John 0. Robertson. Melbourne. Florida
for the John 0. Robertson Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Ruth Lobdell Scholarshin Fund at the University of Michigan..................... 10,000
Kenneth J. Robinson. Bloomfield Hills
for the Judy and Ken Robinson Gift Fund in the Comnrehensive Cancer Center and
for the University Musical Society............................................. 11,445
Robert J. Rock. Birmineham
for suDDort in the Department of Athletics..................................... 30,000
Coleman J. Ross Trust
for the Coleman and Lois Ross Scholarshins in the Medical School and
the Schools of Nursina and Public Health and at the University of Michigan-Flint....... 44,200
Donald and Elizabeth Runck Trust
25.670 shares of various corporate common stock and various U. S. Treasury Bonds
for the Donald H. and Elizabeth F. Runck Student Aid Funds in
the Schools of Business Administration. Education. Nursine. and Music.
the Medical School, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 2,710,058
Russell Saae Foundation. New York. New York
for the Visiting Scholar Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 86,448
SBC, Livonia
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hosnital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 10,800
Scherina Sales Corooration. Kenilworth. New Jersev
for research in the Medical School.......................................... 10,000
Sensicore. Inc.. Ann Arbor
for the Meyerhoff Research Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 12,500
Donald R. Shenherd Trust
for the Donald R. Shenherd Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan............ 35,000
Ching iu Wane Sheu. Bethesda. Maryland
for the Ching Ju Wang Sheu Graduate Student Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy..... 65,000
Sinai Medical Staff Foundation. Southfield
for scholarshins in the Medical School....................................... 27,600
Skillman Foundation. Detroit
for research in the School of Social Work.................................... 100,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. New York. New York
for the Sloan Research Fellowship and other suonort in
the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 80,000
Gloria Lvnne Smith Estate
for the Allen G. and Gloria Lynne Smith Scholarship Fund in the School of Music....... 355,000
Shirley R. Smith. Plymouth
for the Wallace Smith Memorial Fund in the Medical School......................... 10,000
William T. Smith. Jr.. Estate
for suDDort in the School of Information....................................... 28,939
Solutia. Inc.. Saint Louis. Missouri
for suDDort in the Transnortation Research Institute.............................. 10,000
Solvay Pharmaceuticals. Marietta. Georgia
for research in the Medical School........................................ 10,000
Speckhard-KniEht Charitable Foundation. Ann Arbor
for the Speckhard-Kniaht Fund in the Medical School............................. 30,000
George and Elizabeth Soerlina Estate
for the George E. and Elizabeth S. Sperling Endowed Scholarship in the Law School..... 166,738
Spinal Cord Research Foundation. Washington. D. C.
for research in the Division of Kinesiolov...................................... 33,750
Elmer and Svlvia Sramek Charitable Foundation. Chicao. Illinois
for research in the Medical School......................................... 78,000
Marvin Tableman Estate
for the Harold K. Jacobson Graduate Student Sunnort Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 10,000
Wllliam D. Tibbetts Trust
for sunnort in the College of Engineering................................... 175,627
Noel M. Tichv. Ann Arbor
for scholarshins in the Denartment of Athletics and
for the Global Coroorate Citizenship Fund in the School of Business Administration...... 61,350
John L. Tishman. New York. New York
for the Computer Science and Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering......... 400,000


40




September Meeting, 2004


Richard F. Towner Trust
for the Richard and Eleanor Towner Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Eleanor Towner University Library Endowment Fund for Nursina in
the University Library.................................................... 15,000
Toyota Central R&D Laboratories. Inc.. Nauakute. Janan
for support in the College of Enaineerin.................................... 50,000
Toyota Technical Center. U.S.A.. Inc.. Ann Arbor
for suoDort in the Transnortation Research Institute and
for employee matching gifts................................................ 15,100
Tyco Electronics. Harrisbure. Pennsvlvania
for research in the College of Engineering.................................. 30,000
UAW-GM Human Resource Center. Detroit
for support in the Transportation Research Institute.............................. 15,000
Varsity Ford. Inc.. Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hosnital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 10,800
Gary and Victoria Verplank Family Fund of the Grand Haven Area Community Foundation,
Grand Haven
for the Ford School Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy......... 10,000
Visteon Comoroation. Dearborn
for suDOort in the Transportation Research Institute............................... 30,000
Gail and Lois Warden Fund of the Community Foundation for Southeast Michiean. Detroit
for sunnort in the School of Public Health...................................... 12,000
Wege Foundation. Grand Rapids
for the CSS Core Endowment Fund and other sunnort in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment............................... 130,000
Ronald N. Weiser. Ann Arbor
for the Ronald and Eileen Weiser Fund in the Community Service Learning Center at
the University of Michigan and
for the Ronald and Eileen Weiser Slovakia-UM Collaboration in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 50,000
Robert D. Welchli Trust
375 shares of Plumb Creek Timber Comnanv. Inc.. common stock
for support in the University Library......................................... 12,274
West Michigan Industrial Sales Comnanv. Grand Ranids
for scholarshins in the Denartment of Athletics................................. 20,000
Whitaker Foundation. Rosslvn Virainia
for sunort in the College of Engineering.................................. 59,988
Clayton E. Wilhite. Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.......................................10,000
Williams Bailev Law Firm. L. L. P.. Houston. Texas
for suDDort in the Medical School........................................... 25,000
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowshin Foundation. Princeton. New Jersey
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................... 15,000
Van J. Wolf Estate
for chemical enaineering support in the College of Engineering...................... 31,134
Dorothy T. Wu. Ann Arbor
for the Dorothv T. Wu Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Comnrehensive Cancer Center and the Life Sciences Institute..................... 15,100
Wyeth Pharmaceuticals. Philadelnhia. Pennsylvania
for the C. Gardner Child Research and Education Fund in the Medical School.......... 10,500
S. K. Yee Foundation. New York. New York
for the S. K. Yee Scholarshin Fund in the Law School.............................. 50,000
Zell Family Foundation. Chica o. Illinois
for the Zell-Lurie Institute for Entrenreneurial Studies in
the School of Business Administration......................................  1.000.000
Jon and Kathv Zeschin Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund. Boston. Massachusetts
for sunDort in the School of Business Administration............................. 10,000
Zukey Lake Tavern. Pincknev
for the Mott Trails Edge Camp Program in the University Hospitals................... 27,400


41




September Meeting, 2004


Additional gifts ranging from $5,000
following donors:
Andrew Abel, Pinckney
Richard J. Allen, Ann Arbor
Amerisure Insurance. Detroit
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
Ann Arbor Automotive Auto Group ELC, LLC,
Ann Arbor
Ann Arbor Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
Anonymous Donor
Anonymous Donor
V. Elayne Arterberv. Rochester
Aventis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Bridgewater, New
Jersey
William R. Baumel, Saratoga, California
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
Bristol-Myers Sauibb Comnany, New York
Barbara E. Brvant. Ann Arbor
Lawrence L. Bullen. Jackson
Vivian L. Carenter. Detroit
Henry L. Caulkins. Jr.. Chebovean
Peter C. Cubba. Bloomfield Hills
Dearborn Alumni Society University of Michigan,
Dearborn
Dow Coming Foundation. Midland
Connie R. Dunlap, Ann Arbor
Eastman Chemical Company, Kingsport,
Tennessee
James D. Emerson. Fresno. California
Bruce A. Featherstone. Denver, Colorado
Jeffrey D. Fenley Trust
Fidelity Foundation, Boston, Massachusetts
Charles Fisher. East Lansing
Maxine and Stuart Frankel Foundation, Bloomfield
Hills
Galen Medical Society. Ann Arbor
Bruce and Suzy Gershenson Family Foundation,
Southfield
Gilmour Fund. Detroit
Robert H. Gorlin. Northville
Thomas J. Haverbush. Alma
Carol Helzberg, San Rafael, California
Hewlett-Packard Company, Colorado Springs,
Colorado
Ichikoh Industries, LTD, Kanagawa. Janan
George A. Isaac. III and Shari H. Isaac Family
Fund, Toledo, Ohio
J. P. Morgan Chase Foundation, New York, New
York
Marilvn J. Jacobsen Estate
JFK Investment Comnany. Bloomfield Hills
Kajima Foundation, Inc., Rochelle Park, New
Jersey
J. Christonher Kantaias. Birmingham
A. T. Kearnev. Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Rhea K. Kish Trust
Herbert Kohn. Kansas City. Missouri
Alan F. Krauss. Raleigh. North Carolina
Anne M. Kubek, Ann Arbor


to $9,999 in value were received from the
Kuraray Comnany. Ltd.. Osaka. Japan
John E. LaLonde. Grosse Pointe
Lana-Mekra North America, Ridgeway, South
Carolina
L. S. B. Leakey Foundation. Oakland. California
Josenh T. A. and Elsie Choy Lee Fund, Boston,
Massachusetts
Litigation Analytics. Inc.. Ridgefield, Connecticut
Susan C. Longo, Evanston. Illinois
M & L Online, LLC, Farmington Hills
Mr. and Mrs. William F. MacDonald Fund,
Louisville, Kentucky
Donald R. Maxwell. Ann Arbor
Paul W. McCracken. Ann Arbor
McGraw Foundation. Northbrook. Illinois
Edward A. Michael, Vero Beach, Florida
Michigan Women's Athletic Association, Ann
Arbor
Beth A. Miller, Saline
Leonard G. Miller, Williamsburg, Virginia
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company
Foundation, Saint Paul, Minnesota
C. Barry Montgomery, Chicago, Illinois
Northrop Grumman Foundation, Los Angeles,
California
Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East
Hanover. New Jersey
Patricia A. O'Conner. Chelsea
Garo A. Partoyan, Sarasota, Florida
Pfizer Foundation. Princeton. New Jersey
James G. Phillinn. Ormond Beach, Florida
Mildred P. Pickard Estate
Judith A. Pitnev. Ann Arbor
Randall L. Pittman. Ann Arbor
G. C. Pollex & Associates. Inc., Southfield
Publicom. Inc.. East Lansing
Roche Laboratories. Inc.. Nutley, New Jersey
Michael Santicchia. Dearborn
Martha R. Seger, Ann Arbor
Sleeping Bear Dunes Visitors Bureau, Glen Arbor
W. Allen Spivey, Ann Arbor
Seth Sprague Educational and Charitable
Foundation, New York, New York
James C. Stanley. Ann Arbor
Stryker Leibineer. Kalamzoo
Robert H. Swart. Washington. D. C.
G. Leonard Teitelbaum. Holmdel. New Jersey
Robert E. Terkhorn. Denver. Colorado
Stephen G. Tomlinson, Chicago. Illinois
Toucan Management. LLC. Bethesda, Maryland
Thomas G. Varbedian Trust
Varnum. Riddering, Schmidt & Howlett LLP,
Grand Rapids
Williams Gun Sight Comnany, Davison
Ronald W. Winter. Ossineke
Kensall D. Wise, Ann Arbor


The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Robert K. Fennimore. Jackson
a laree collection of over 600 items consisting of books, manuscripts and other materials for the
University Library
Constance F. Harris. Beverlv Hills. California
an extensive collection of Judaic materials for the University Library


42




September Meeting, 2004


Hewlett-Packard Corooration. Livonia
computer equinment for the University Hospitals
Intel Cororation. Hillsboro. Oregon
OntiPlex GX270 small mini tower, speakers, and other equipment for the College of Engineering
Karl Metcalf. Flint
photoelastic stress and strain analysis equipment for University of Michigan-Flint
Sun Microsystems. Inc.. Palo Alto. California
equipment to be used by the Internet Public Library for the School of Information
July:
Catharine B. Adel Estate
for the Catharine and Arthur Adel and Theordore and Amanda Backu Endowed Scholarship Fund
in the Horace H Rackham School of Graduate Studies, the School of Nursing. and
the College of Literature. Science, and the Arts............................... $70,300
Vivek Aaarwal. San Jose. California
for the G. S. Agarwal Fellowship in the College of Engineering...................... 10,000
Ruth S. Allison Estate
for suDDort in the Medical School........................................... 17,091
Alro Steel Comoration. Jackson
for support in the Department of Athletics................................... 250,000
American Association of Orthodontists Foundation. Saint Lois. Missouri
for the Graduate Orthodontics Residents Program in the School of Dentistry............. 10,000
American Cancer Society. Inc.. Atlanta. Georgia
for support in the Medical School and the College of Literature. Science, and the Arts.... 88,445
American Foundation for Urological Disease. Inc.. Baltimore. Maryland
for sunDort in the Medical School........................................... 15,000
Amgen. Inc.. Thousand Oaks. California
for support in the College of Pharmacy and in the Medical School...................... 35,000
Ann Arbor Track Club. Ann Arbor
for the Save a Heart Campaign in the University Hospitals and for WUOM.............. 13,162
Anonymous Donor
for an Anonymous Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 1,000,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Director's Leadershin Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............... 30,000
April Restaurants L.L.C.. Totowa. New Jersev
for the Martin Luther King, Jr., Scholarshin in the School of Business Administration..... 10,000
Arthritis Foundation. Michigan Chanter. Southfield
for research in the Medical School......................................... 12,500
ASN, Washington. D. C.
for research in the Medical School........................................... 37,500
Atlantic Philanthronies. Inc.. New York. New York
for 21st Century Needs Proiect in the School of Information.......................... 75,000
Azalea Foundation. Saint Simons Island. Georgia
for suDDort in the School of Business Administration.............................. 10,000
Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation. Battle Creek
for the Michigan Solar House Project in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.................. 15,000
Boeing Company. Seattle. WashinEton
for scholarshins in the College of Engineering................................ 77,000
Robert M. Bohlen. Brighton
for sunDort in the Museum of Art.............................................. 26,00
Marvin Borman. Long Lake. Minnesota
for the Marvin and Elizabeth Borman Endowed Scholarshin Fund in
the College of Literature. Science, and the Arts................................ 20,000
Bliss Bowman. Bloomfield Hills
for sunDort in the Department of Athletics.....................................  12,500
Robert W. Browne. Ada
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School.................... 300,000
Buhr Foundation. Ann Arbor
for sunnort in the School of Dentistry....................................... 10,000
Clare B. Callahan Unitrust
for the Clare and Michael Callahan Dean's Discretionary Fund and other sunnort in
the School of Business Administration........................................ 35,000
Donald L. Castle Unitrust
for support in the Michigan League and the School of Nursing........................ 27,470


43




S Ieptember Meeting, 2004


Chamber Music America. New York. New York
for the  University  M usical Society..............................................10,0 0
H. Bushnell Clarke. Saint Petersburg. Florida
for the Julian Hoff Professorshi in Neurosurgery in the Medical School................. 10,000
Cochlear Americas. Englewood. Colorado
for support in  the  M edical School..............................................  25,000
Charles Concordia. Ann Arbor
for SUnoort in the School of Business Administration..............................100,000
James F. Conrad. Nashville. Tennessee
for the KEC Building Develonment Fund in the Medical School......................20,000
Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America. Inc.. New York. New York
for support in  the  M edical School..............................................  29,375
Delta Dental Fund. Lansing
for support in the  School of Dentistrv...........................................  67,863
Dermatologv Foundation. Evanston. Illinois
for research  in  the  M edical School.............................................. 51,000
Paul R. Dirkse Trust
for the Doris and Paul R. Dirkse, M.D., Scholarship in the Medical School.............. 50,000
Educational Advancement Foundation. Austin. Texas
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 85,000
J. Taylor and Dorothv P. Elliott Family Trust
for scholarshins in the College of Engineering..................................... 18,383
David S. Evans. Wilmette. Illinois
723 various comorate common stock and a cash eift
for the Sidnev Fine Excellence in Teaching Fellowship in
the College of Literature. Science. and the Arts and
for other support at the University  of  Michigan................................... 28,588
Ford Foundation. New York. New York
for research  in the School of Social Work....................................... 117,000
Foundation Fighting Blindness. Owings Mills. Marvland
for research  in  the  M edical School............................................. 464,137
Foundation for Digestive Health. Bethesda. Marvland
for research  in  the  M edical School.............................................. 16,250
Francis Families Foundation. Kansas Citv. Missouri
for SUnnort in  the  M edical School..............................................40,000
Genvec. Inc.. Gaithersburg. Maryland
for research  in  the  M edical School..............................................15,000
Jean H. Gerende Trust
for the Dr. Lincoln J. Gerende and Dr. Marguerite Hall O'Connell Scholarship Fund in
the  School of Public  Health...................................................  44,000
Julia Goodman Estate
for the Bettv Pease Dance Scholarship Fund in the School of Music................... 20,134
John J. Guettler Trust
for the John J. and Emily S. Guettler Student Aid Fund in
the College of Literature. Science. and the Arts................................... 113,473
Guidant Foundation. Inc.. Indiananolis. Indiana
for scholarshins in the College of Engineering..................................... 40,000
Beverlv Lannauist Hamilton. Avon. Connecticut
for the International Learning Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 12,000
Jean M. Holland. Birmin ham
for the Frederick Richard Holland. M.D.. Endowed Scholarshin Fund in
the  M edical  School..........................................................  25,000
William B. Holmes Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 20,000
Honeywell Hometown Solutions. Princeton. New Jersev
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  50,000
Ho yard Hu-hes Medical Institute. Chevy Chase. Maryland
for sunnort in the Medical School............................................ 39,000
Hurlev Medic~al Center. Flint
for support in the School of Dentistr......................................... 292,909
J. P. Moruan Chase Foundation. New York. New York
for the JP Mor an Chase Fellowshin) Fund in the School of Business Administration and
for employee matching gifts................................................ 51,787
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. Princeton. New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health.................................... 716,765
Kalsec. Kalamazoo
for support in the Life Sciences Institute....................................... 20,000


44




September Meeting, 2004


W. M. Keck Foundation. Los Angeles. California
for research in the Medical School....................................... 203,280
Kelly Services Foundation. Inc.. Trov
for research in the School of Business Administration............................. 12,300
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation. Petoskev
for suDDort in the University Hosnitals......................................... 14,852
Lisa F. Kni ht-Giuliani. Matawan. New Jersey
for the Lisa Faith Knight Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics............. 50,000
Andrew J. Kranohl. Lincoln
for the Patricia Averill Krapohl Dean's Discretionary Fund in the School of Nursing...... 10,000
Lockheed Martin Services. Inc.. Cherry Hill. New Jersev
for research in the College ofEneineerin.................................... 15,000
Lustgarten Foundation for Pancreatic Cancer Research. BethtDae. New York
for research in the Medical School........................................... 50,000
Oliver Dewev Marcks Foundation. Detroit
for sunDort in the Denartment of Athletics and the Michigan League.................. 55,000
Mardigian Foundation. Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Medical School............................................ 10,000
Oscar G. and Elsa S. Maver Family Foundation. Madison. Wisconsin
for support in the College of Literature. Science. and the Arts........................ 52,200
Ronald D. and Resina C. McNeil. Lake Zurich. Illinois
for the Ronald D. McNeil Endowed Football ScholarshiP and other sunDort
in the DeDartment of Athletics.............................................. 30,000
Mary Uniohn Meader. Kalamazoo
14.000 shares of various coroorate common stock
for the Denression Center Construction Fund in the Medical School.................. 475,735
Meijer. Inc.. Grand Ranids
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hosnital Golf Classic Benefit Fund and
for support in  the  School of NursinS............................................  10,848
Microsoft Cororation. Redmond. Washington
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.............................. 80,000
Mary C. Murmhv Trust
for the Percv and Marv Murchv Endowed Children's Research Fund in
the Medical School...................................................... 20,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizonhrenia and Denression. Chicago. Illinois
for research in the Medical School............................................. 90,000
National Kidnev Foundation. Grand Ledee
for research in the Medical School.......................................... 10,000
National Kidney Foundation. Inc.. New York. New York
for research in the Medical School......................................... 33,750
Northwestern Mutual Life Foundation. Milwaukee. Wisconsin
for emnlovee matchine gifts.................................................. 10,250
John Pfeifer. Bloomfield Hills
for the John R. Pfeiffer Professorship in the Medical School........................ 20,000
Pfizer Foundation. Princeton. New Jersey
for emolovee matchine Qifts..............................................  11,295
Photronics. Inc.. Brookfield. Connecticut
for research in the College of Engineering................................. 25,000
Herbert and Elsa Pontine Foundation. Detroit
for research in the Medical School......................................... 15,00
Power Foundation. Kalamazoo
for the Sadve Harwick Power Fund in the College of Literature. Science. and the Arts. and
for WUOM............................................................29,100
Heinz C. Prechter Fund for Manic Denression. Southgate
200 shares of Procter & Gamble Comnanv common stock and a cash eift
for the Heinz C. Prechter Bipolar Research Endowed Fund in the Medical School....... 1,790,859
Radar Industries. Warren
for scholarshins in the Denartment of Athletics................................. 30,000
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Trust
for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarshin Funds in the College of Pharmacy.
the Schools of Dentistry, Nursing, and Public Health, and the Medical School.......... 10,078
John 0. Robertson. Melbourne. Florida
for the John 0. Robertson Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Ruth Lobdell Scholarshin Fund at the University of Michigan..................... 24,000
Roche Laboratories. Inc.. Nutlev. New Jersev
for support in the Medical School............................................. 27,500


45




September Meeting, 2004


Charles R. Rouhier. Oilville. Virginia
for the Charles R. Rouhier Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Elise Katz-Rouhier Memorial Scholarship Fund in the College of Pharmacy.......... 20,000
Donald and Elizabeth Runck Trust
1.742 shares of Proctor & Gamble ComDanv common stock, municipal bonds, and a cash gift
for the Donald H. and Elizabeth F. Runck Student Aid Fund in
the Schools of Business Administration. Education. Music. and Nursine.
the Medical School, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 147,576
Frances Sadoff Estate
for support in the School of Education........................................10,000
Sallie Mae. Inc.. Reston. Virginia
for scholarshins at the University of Michigan.................................... 15,000
Frances B. Schneider Trust
for the Russell and Frances Schneider Student Merit Award at
the Universitv of Michigan................................................ 260,870
Seremet Family Foundation. Potomac. Maryland
for support in the School of Business Administration............................. 12,500
Shell Oil Comnanv Foundation. Houston. Texas
for emDlovee matchina sifts.................................................. 11,510
William E. Simon Foundation. Inc.. New York. New York
for the William E. and Carol G. Simon Fellowship Fund in
the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.....................................  100,000
Edwin J. Smith. Las Cruces. New Mexico
170 shares of Genlvte Groun. Inc.. common stock
for the Men's Track and Field Gift Fund in the Department of Athletics................ 10,411
Michael L. Smith. Clarkston
for the Dr. Louis Smith Fund in the Medical School............................. 100,000
Raymond C. Smith Foundation Endowment Fund of the Community Foundation for
Southeastern Michigan
for support at the University of Michigan..................................50,000
Alice B. Smuts. Ann Arbor
for suDDort in the Medical School and the University Hospitals....................... 10,000
John L. Snanier Trust
for support at the University of Michigan.................................... 100,000
George and Elizabeth Snerline Estate
for the George E. and Elizabeth S. SDerline Endowed ScholarshiP Fund in
the Law School...................................................... 13,262
Steelcase Foundation. Grand Ranids
for emn lovee matchinge  ifts...............................................  10,475
John L. Strauch. Cleveland. Ohio
685 shares of InterActive Cornoration common stock
for the Paul L. Strauch "Snirit of the Studio" Endowed Scholarshin in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment.............................. 20,091
David M. Strosbers. Chicago. Illinois
for the David M. Strosberc Merit Scholarshin Endowment Fund in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning................... 10,000
Waldo D. Sturm. Pieeon
for the Sturm Family Endowment Fund and other sunnort in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 100,250
Bruce E. Thal. Birmineham
600 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock
for the Ileane and Bruce Thal Forum for Arts of Citizenshi Fund at
the Universitv of Michigan............................................... 33,156
Norman W. Thomoson. Ann Arbor
for the Norman W. Thomoson Fellowshin in Endocrine Suraerv Fund in
the M edical School......................................................... 20,0 0
United Cerebral Palsv Research and Educational Foundation. Inc.. Washin'ton. D. C.
for research in the Medical School........................................... 25,000
University of Michigan Club of Greater Flint. Flint
for the University of Michiean Club of Greater Flint Endowed Athletic Scholarshin Fund in
the Department of Athletics.............................................. 20,000
University of Michigan Club of New York Scholarshin Fund. Inc.. New York, New York
385 shares of Gabelli Eauitv Trust. Inc.. tax B nreferred stock
for the University of Michigan Club of New York Scholarship Fund................... 10,120
Washtenaw Home Builders Association Foundation. Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School............................................ 26,367


46




September Meeting, 2004


Joanne B. and David P. Wood Fund of the Community Foundation for
Southeastern Michigan. Detroit
for the David and Sharon Wood Urologic Research Fund in the Medical School......... 17,500
Theresa R. Woods Trust
for suDoort in the Medical School........................................... 372,059
Elizabeth Wright Charitable Remainder Unitrust. Farmington Hills
for the Elizabeth Benson Wright Charitable Scholarshin Fund in
the College of Literature. Science. and the Arts................................ 10,000
Young & Rubicam. New York. New York
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane. the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 13,820
Zatkoff Family Foundation. Farmington Hills
for the Roger and Elaine Zatkoff Scholarship at the University of Michigan............ 10,000
Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:


Frederic S. Abood. Lansing
Ellen Shaw Aaress. Scarborouah. New York
ALS Association. Aaoura Hills, California
Jose J. Alvarez. Ann Arbor
David W. Berson Trust
Bristol-Mvers Sauibb. Princeton, New Jersey
John W. Burau. Gavlord
Wendv Will Case Cancer Fund, Inc., Chicago,
Illinois
ChevronTexaco Matching Gift Program, Princeton,
New Jersey
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program,
Inc., Detroit
Enerflex Solutions. L.L.C.. Trov
Howard Friend. Glencoe. Illinois
Arthur J. Gaio, Durham Parkway, North Carolina
Gulf Energy Company, Houston, Texas
Martha S. Hearron. Kalamazoo
Joan E. Herlitz. Bloomfield Hills
Esther G. Hevns. West Olive
Lynn M. Kalinowski, Marshall
Jerry Knight, Ann Arbor
Leukemia Research Foundation. Skokie, Illinois
Magna Donnelly Corporation, Holland


Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., New York,
New York
R. Gordon Mathews. Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania
Frederick Meijer Gardens, Grand Rapids
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company,
Saint Paul. Minnesota
Kenneth L. Moore. Des Peres. Missouri
Edward W. Muransky, Poland, Ohio
National Public Broadcasting, LLC, New York,
New York
Omenn-Darlini Family Advised Fund, Seattle,
Washington
Mary D. Pons, Brighton
Porter Foundation. Grand Ranids
Dean E. Richardson. Grosse Pointe Farms
ScherinE Sales Corporation, Kenilworth, New
Jersev
Ruth A. Slavin, Ann Arbor
Sterling Bank & Trust, Southfield
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann
Arbor
University of Michigan Student Organization
Accounts. Ann Arbor
James R. Weigand, Elkhart, Indiana


The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
James E. Duffv. Grosse Pointe
a welded steel sculpture by Robert Sestok called "Modern Heads" for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn
E. Frederick Lane. Ann Arbor
the Fred Lang collection of books on mathematics and mathematical recreations for the University
Library
August:
AAE Foundation. Chicauo. Illinois
for research in the School of Dentistry........................................ $10,550
Advanced Risc Machines. Ltd.. Cambridue. England
for research in the College of Engineering....................................... 39,403
Richard B. Ainsworth. Jr.. Cleveland. Ohio
6.000 shares of various cornorate common stock
for the Richard B. Ainsworth. Jr.. Charitable Gift Annuity
for the ultimate benefit of the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............... 103,270
Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers. Inc.. Washineton. D. C.
for support in the Transportation Research Institute............................ 312,500
Alpha Xi Delta. Ann Arbor
for support in the Michigan League............................................ 23,181
Alzheimer's Disease Research. Rockville. Maryland
for research in the College of Pharmacy........................................ 25,000


47




September Meeting, 2004


American Cancer Society. Inc.. Atlanta. Georgia
for research and other suDDort in the Medical School and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 90,612
American Federation for Asing Research. Inc.. New York. New York
for research in the Medical School........................................... 134,000
American Lune Association. New York. New York
for research in the Medical School............................................. 52,500
American Society of Clinical Oncoloev. Alexandria. Virginia
for research in the Medical School............................................ 35,000
Marceil Andrevchuk. Vassar
1.600 shares of Pfizer. Inc.. common stock
for research in the Medical School......................................... 50,064
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Department of Athletics....................................... 75,000
Anonymous Donor
for research in the Medical School............................................. 12,500
Aramco Services Comoanv. Houston. Texas
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 15,000
Arthritis Foundation. Atlanta. Georgia
for research in the Medical School........................................... 23,208
Arthritis Foundation Michigan Chanter. Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 75,000
Arnold R. Babcock. Pensacola. Florida
1.725 shares of Citizen Communications common stock and a cash gift
for the Arnold and Vivian Babcock Charitable Gift Annuity for ultimate benefit of the
Dentistry Class of 1952 Endowed Student Scholarship Fund in the School of Dentistry.... 25,000
Morris and Beverlv Baker Foundation. Windsor. Canada
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................................... 10,000
Barr Groun. Inc.. Southfield
for support in the Department of Athletics..................................... 50,000
Kendall P. Bates Trust
for the Marion Louise (Powers) Bates Memorial Scholarshin Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 50,000
Robert P. Bavosi Estate
for the Catherine V. Bavosi Endowed Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan..... 663,279
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan Foundation. Detroit
for research in the Medical School........................................... 10,000
Mandell L. Berman. Southfield
for the Israeli Fellowshin in Radiation Oncologv in the Medical School and
for the Sol Drachler Program Scholarship in the School of Social Work............... 15,500
Mandell L. and Madeleine Berman Foundation. Southfield
for the Berman Graduate FellowshiP Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 15,000
Blizzard. McCarthv & Nabers. L.L.P.. Houston. Texas
for support in the Medical School............................................ 25,000
Norman R. Bodine. Clinton. Washington
434 shares of various coroorate common stock
for the Ralph B. Bodine Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 34,738
Mary A. Branch Trust
for the Judson B. Branch Fund at the University of Michigan....................... 567,438
Bristol-Myers Sauibb Comnanv. Princeton. New Jersev
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... 38,000
Lawrence L. Bullen. Jackson
1.000 shares of Bullen. Moilanen. Klaasen & Swan. Inc.. common stock and a cash aift
for support in the Law School and for WUOM................................. 10,050
Burns & Wilcox Ltd.. Farmington Hills
for the Kaufman Graduate Fellowshin Challenge in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 10,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund. Research Triangle. North Carolina
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 179,608
Brian P. Camnbell. Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School.......................................... 10,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation. Baltimore. Maryland
for research the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.......................... 52,000
Joseph B. and Florence V. Ceika. Bedminster. New Jersev
for the Joseph B. and Florence V. Cejka Scholarship in the College of Engineering....... 50,000
ChevronTexaco. Concord. California
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering...................... 35,000


48




September Meeting, 2004


Cohn Family Philanthronic Fund. Bloomfield Hills
for the Irwin I. Cohn Professorship in the Law School............................. 200,000
Howard Cohodas. Marauette
for the Harrv R. Cohodas Graduate Scholarshin in the School of Business Administration and
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 27,000
Concert for the Cure. Brookline. Massachusetts
for support in the M edical School..............................................  10,000
ConocoPhilliDs ComDanv. Houston. Texas
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering....................... 35,000
Consortium for Graduate Study. Saint Louis. Missouri
for scholarships in the School of Business Administration........................... 50,000
Margaret Cook. Chelsea
for the Student Publication Buildinu Renovation Fund and
the Martha Cook Building Fund............................................ 10,000
Cooley's Anemia Foundation. Inc.. New York. New York
for support in the Medical School........................................ 10,000
Dermatolovy Foundation. Evanston. Illinois
for research in the Medical School......................................... 13,750
Edward Domino. Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School............................................. 50,000
Gunter Dufev Trust of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Emeritus Faculty Ph. D. Fellowshin Fund in
the School of Business Administration........................................... 10,000
Patricia EdHar. Pittsburah. Pennsvlvania
for the Paul L. Strauch " Snirit of the Studio" Endowed Scholarshin Fund in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment.............................. 10,000
S. Codv Enule. Chica o. Illinois
for the Svlvia "Duffv" En le Graduate Student Fellowshin in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 23,000
Ford Motor Comnanv Fund. Dearborn
for employee matching gifts............................................. 47,483
Foundation for Digestive Health and Nutrition. Bethesda. Maryland
for research  in the M edical School..............................................  17,500
Stanley and Judith Frankel Family Foundation. Trov
for Frankel Fellowshins in Jewish Communal Service in the School of Social Work and
for the Judaic Studies Director's Discretionary Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 12,500
General Motors Comroration. Detroit
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn.........................................  10,000
Charles H. Gershenson Trust
for support in the School of Music.............................................. 50,000
GoldrinL Family Foundation. Short Hills. New Jersey
for suDDort in the Denartment of Athletics and
for the Goldrina Distinguished Visitina Lectureshin and
the Goldrine Family Field International Study ExDeriences Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 100,000
William T. Grant Foundation. New York. New York
for research in the School of Education.........................................  136,060
John A. Hartford Foundation. Inc.. New York. New York
for research in the Medical School........................................ 38,016
Harvard Drue Groun. Livonia
for support in  the University  Hospitals........................................... 10,000
William K. Hawes. Jr.. Houston. Texas
for the William K. Hawes Family Scholarship Fund in the School of Music............. 20,000
Rebecca Sue Horvath. Ann Arbor
5.873 shares of Charter One Financial. Inc.. common stock
for the Rebecca Sue Horvath Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Education and the Allen P. Britton Fund in the School of Music.......... 260,644
IMRA America. Inc.. Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering................................. 33,000
Intel Cornoration. Hillsboro. Oreuon
for research in the College of Engineering.....................................  80,000
James R. Irwin. Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Music................... 12,500
Isis Pharmaceuticals. Carlsbad. California
for research in the Medical School.......................................... 20,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. Princeton. New Jersev
for research in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy and the Medical School...... 256,123


49




Se ptember Meeting, 2004


Just for Kids Foundation. Northville
for the  C. S. M ott Children's Hospital...........................................  33,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International. New York. New York
for research  in  the M edical School............................................. 375,075
D. Dan and Betty Kahn Family Foundation. Warren
for the D. Dan and Betty Kahn Cardiovascular Fund in the University Hospitals..........250,000
William and Ellen Kahn Fund of the United Jewish Foundation of Metropolitan Detroit,
Bloomfield Hills
for support in  the  M useum  of Art............................................... 10,000
Geneva Maisel Kellman. Birmingham
11.270 shares of Charter One Financial. Inc.. common stock
for the Director's Leadership Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............... 500,163
W. K. Kelloaa Foundation. Battle Creek
for research in the Medical School,
for emnlovee matching gifts. and
for  W U O M...............................................................  267,693
KeraCure. Inc.. Chicago. Illinois
for research  in  the  M edical School.............................................  27M012
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation. Petoskev
for support in the University  Hospitals........................................... 14,852
William Lynch KnaDD. Ann Arbor
for the William L. Knann Charitable Gift Annuitv for the ultimate benefit of
the William L. and Betty G. KnaDD Dean's Merit Scholarshin Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 10,000
Kresge Foundation. Trov
for the Michigan Solar House Project in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning................... 79,000
Richard P. Kuahn. Dearborn
for sunDort in the Denartment of Athletics and
for the University  of Michigan-Dearborn......................................... 25,000
Henry M. Lederman. YDsilanti
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 15,000
Leukemia and Lvmnhoma Society. White Plains. New York
for research  in  the  M edical School.............................................. 77,500
Link Foundation. Hanover. New Hamoshire
for chemistry scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............25,000
Longenbauah Fund of the Vanguard Charitable Endowment Program. Southeastern. Pennsylvania
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................. 210,000
Lupus Research Institute. Inc.. New York. New York
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 37,500
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation. Chicago, Illinois
for SUnnort in the School of Public Health and
for employee  matching  gifts.................................................. 277,300
Sylvia Maiowski. Redford
500 shares of Charter One Financial. Inc.. common stock
for the Ted Majowski Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan..................22,188
Malloure Familv Foundation. Beverly Hills
for support in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital................................... 10,000
Marathon Oil Comnanv. Findlav. Ohio
for employee  matching  gifts...................................................  10,747
Frederick C. Matthaei. Jr. Revocable Trust
400 shares of Amgen. Inc.. common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 22,066
May and Walt Family Charitable Fund of Combined Jewish Philanthronies, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Michelle Mav and David Walt Dean's Scholarshin Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 25,000
William K. McHenrv. Jr. Estate
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 10,000
Mary Uniohn Meader. Kalamazoo
7.000 shares of National City Corooration common stock
for the Denression Center Construc'tion Fund in the Medical School and
for the Kelsey Expansion Project............................................252,770
Medtronic. Inc.. Minneanolis. Minnesota
for support of the 'Capture the Heart" event in the Medical School................... 19,000
D. Stuart Meikleiohn. Grand Blanc
for the University of Michigan-Flint Women's Educational Center................... 10,000
Merck & Comnanv. Inc.. Rahwav. New Jersey
for scholarships in the Medic~al School........................................ 300,000


50




September Meeting, 2004


David L. Miller. Grand Blanc
for the David L. and Janet M. Miller Endowed Scholarshin Fund in
the School of Dentistry.................................................. 15,000
Margaret E. Miller Estate
for the Burton H. Miller Fund in the Clements Library,
for the Detroit Observatory Endowment Fund.
for the Marearet E. Miller Graduate ScholarshiP Fund in the School of Art and Design. and
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 1,000,000
John C. and Sally S. Morley Family Foundation. Cleveland. Ohio
for the Harry H. Jones Endowment Fund in the School of Business Administration........ 50,000
Ruth Mott Foundation. Flint
for WFUM............................................................. 63,265
National Hemoohilia Foundation. Grand Ranids
for fellowships in the Medical School.........................................  30,681
National Hemonhilia Foundation. New York. New York
for support in the Life Sciences Institute at the University of Michigan................. 28,000
National Heritage Academies. Grand Ranids
for W UOM...........................................................  13,260
National Multiple Sclerosis Society. New York. New York
for research in the Medical School......................................... 30,938
Nobel Biocare USA. Inc.. Yorba Linda. California
for support in the School of Dentistry........................................  50,000
John M. Olin Foundation. Inc.. New York. New York
for the Olin Center for Law and Economics in the Law School....................... 154,000
Brian Parker Memorial Foundation. Niles
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.............................. 10,000
Pfizer. Inc.. New York. New York
for sunnort in the College of Pharmacy. the C. S. Mott Children's Hosoital. and
the Medical School.....................................................  71,905
PKD Foundation. Kansas Citv. Missouri
for support in the Medical School........................................... 40,000
Prostate Cancer Foundation. Santa Monica. California
for the Cap Cure Therapy Consortium in the Medical School........................ 100,000
Radiological Society of North America. Chicago. Illinois
for research in the Medical School...........................................   30,000
Riverville Foundation. Signal Mountain. Tennessee
for scholarships at the University of Michigan.................................... 60,000
John 0. Robertson. Melbourne. Florida
for the John 0. Robertson Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Ruth Lobdell Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan..................... 10,000
Ellen L. Rontal. Bloomfield Hills
325 shares of Tvco International. Ltd.. common stock
for support in the School of Art and Design.................................... 10,197
Jalen Rose Foundation. Los Anseles. California
for the Jalen Rose Endowed Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan............ 60,000
Jack F. Ross. Temnle Terrace. Florida
for the Jack F. Ross, M.D. Scholarship Fund in the Medical School.................... 75,000
Jack Roth Charitable Foundation. Los Angeles. California
for the Jack Roth Softball Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.................. 50,000
Donald L. Rumelhart. Ann Arbor
1.132 shares of Dow Chemical Comoanv common stock
for scholarshins and other sunnort in the Detartment of Athletics,
for the Judith Dow Rumelhart Musical Theatre Scholarship and
other sunnort in the School of Music.
and for the University  Musical Society.........................................  42,073
Donald and Elizabeth Runck Estate
for the Donald H. and Elizabeth F. Runck Scholarships in
the Schools of Business Administration.
Education. Music. and Nursine. the Medical School. and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................... 25,885
Margerv H. Ruth Estate
for the J. Griswold and Margery Hopkins Ruth Scholarship in the Medical School........ 21,511
Richard N. Sams. Ann Arbor
for support in the University Hospitals................... 20,000
Edward I. Schalon. Saint Josenh
for the Edward I. Schalon Endowed Golf Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..... 100,000
Schlumber er. Susar Land. Texas
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 35,000


51




September Meeting, 2004


Madeleine T. Schneider. Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School.........................................  100,000
Douglas R. Schrank. Sau atuck
10.500 shares of Perriuo Comnanv common stock
for the ultimate benefit of the Douelas and Nancv Dolan Schrank Charitable Gift Annuity and
the Schrank Family Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 190,755
Shell Global Solutions. Inc.. Houston. Texas
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering...................... 35,000
Donald R. Shenherd. Rancho Santa Fe. California
15.800 shares of Keystone Pronertv Trust common stock
for sunnort in the Denartment of Athletics and
for the Robert and Mariorie ShePherd GSI Fund and other sunDort in
the School of Music...................................................... 375,013
Forrest W. Simmons. Portland. Oregon
for support in the Law School............................................ 15,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. New York. New York
for the Sloan Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 20,000
Alene M. Smith. Ann Arbor
for the Allan F. Smith Endowed Scholarship in the School of Music..................  10,000
Doris J. Smith. Irvine. California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................25,000
Jonathan Smith. Northville
for the Jackie Lawson Fund at the University of Michigan.......................... 10,000
Society for Women's Health Research. Washinton.. D. C.
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 25,500
Robert B. Snan~enbera Estate
for the Robert B. SPan enbera Scholarshin Endowment Fund in the Medical School and
for other support at the University of Michigan................................ 414,000
Gloria M. Strutz Estate
for the Gloria M. Strutz, M.D. Endowment Fund at the University of Michigan.......... 42,000
TG North America Corooration. Trov
for support in the Transportation Research Institute.............................. 15,000
Nancy B. Thomas. Kenilworth. Illinois
575 shares of Charter One Financial. Inc.. common stock
for support at the University of Michigan.................................... 25,550
Total E & P USA. Inc.. Houston. Texas
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering...................... 35,000
University of Hawaii Foundation. Honolulu. Hawaii
for the Herbert H. Lee Scholarship at the University of Michigan...................... 22,137
University of Michigan Club of Washinton. D. C.. Washington. D. C.
for the University of Michigan Club of Washinaton, D. C.. Club Scholarshin at
the University of Michigan.................................................. 12,500
James S. VanPelt. Winnetka. Illinois
200 shares of BP PLC common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics..................................... 10,476
Charles R. Walareen III Trust
10,715 shares of Walgreen Company common stock
for support in the College of Pharmacy.................................... 397,848
Brian C. Walker. Zeeland
1.000 shares of Herman Miller. Inc.. common stock
for the Childhood Arthritis Research & Education Endowment Fund in
the Medical School........................................................  27,038
Whitaker Foundation. Rosslvn. Virainia
for the Whitaker Foundation Student Fellowship Fund in the College of Engineering...... 39,000
Wyeth Pharmaceuticals. Philadelphia. Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School............................................. 20,000
Zell Family Foundation. ChicaIo. Illinois
for the Sam Zell Dean's Tactical Fund in the Law School........................ 100,000


52




September Meeting, 2004


Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:


Accent International, Inc., Grand Blanc
Altria Group, Inc., New York, New York
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
American Association for the Study of Liver
Disease, Alexandria, Virginia
Ann Arbor Commerce Bank, Ann Arbor
Ann Arbor Firefighters Charities, Ann Arbor
Rudolf Arnheim Trust
Association of Performing Arts Presenters National
Task Force, Washington, D. C.
Arthur P. Bartholomew, Jr., Ocean Ridge, Florida
Eva B. Berkowitz, Torrington, Connecticut
Steven R. Berlage, Troy
Betmar Charitable Foundation, West Bloomfield
Bruce P. Bickner, Sycamore, Illinois
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,
Ridgefield, Connecticut
Keith E. Brauer, Zionsville, Indiana
Robert A. Chartrand, Sun City, Arizona
Richard Christie, Wayne, New Jersey
Clicquot, Inc., New York, New York
Cove Point Foundation, New York, New York
Coyer Family Fund of the Fidelity Investments
Charitable Gift Foundation, Boston,
Massachusetts
Investments Charitable Gift Foundation, Boston,
Massachusetts
Decoma International, Inc., Concord, Canada
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
Eaton Corporation World Headquarters, Cleveland,
Ohio
Robert J. Enright, Novi
Excelda Manufacturing, Brighton
Margaret Farmer Cook, Chelsea
First Baptist Church, Ann Arbor
Max M. and Marjorie S. Fisher, Detroit
Fuji Dietec Corporation, Troy
Chevrolet Motor Division of General Motors
Company, Warren
Hebert & Eller, P.C., Detroit
Highfield Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
Hope Foundation, San Antonio, Texas
James S. House and Wendy Fisher House
Charitable Fund of the Fidelity Investments
Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
Hydro Aluminum, Adrian
William G. Hyland, Monterey, California


Japan Foundation, Tokyo, Japan
Alan J. Kaufman Living Trust
Herbert W. Kaufman Family Support Foundation
of the United Jewish Foundation of
Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
Robert C. Kelsch, Ann Arbor
James A. and Faith Knight Foundation, Ann Arbor
W. Henry Koivunen, Livonia
Leukemia Research Foundation, Skokie, Illinois
Jane L. Lieberthal, Ann Arbor
Lockheed Martin Corporation, Bethesda, Maryland
Andrew Lonyo, Clinton Township
Chalmers J. Lyons Academy of Oral Surgery, Port
Huron
MBNA America Bank, Wilmington, Delaware
Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, LTD., Nagasaki,
Japan
Deena N. Morgan, Palm Beach, Florida
Susan Mulka Living Revocable Trust
National Public Broadcasting, New York, New
York
National Starch and Chemical Foundation,
Bridgewater, New Jersey
North American Lighting, Inc., Farmington Hills
0. & W., Inc., Ypsilanti
Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc., Somers, New York
Lawrence J. Portnoy, New York, New York
Samuel A. Ragnone, Flint
Richard B. Rogers Revocable Trust
Rooney Family LLC, Ann Arbor
John P. Schmidt, Ann Arbor
Robert B. Schumer, New York, New York
Aileen Sedman, Ann Arbor
Nell G. Stern, Ann Arbor
Edward Surovell Realtors, Ann Arbor
Toyota Motor North America, Inc., New York,
New York
TTM Travel Services, Inc., Troy
Reginald L. Tucker, Chicago, Illinois
University of Michigan Alumni Club of Lansing,
Lansing
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann
Arbor
Wal Mart Stores, Inc., Bentonville, Arkansas
Frederick T. Waldeck, Los Angeles, California
Donald B. Wallace, West Bloomfield


The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Gilbert M. Frimet. Farmington Hills
41 works of art for the Museum of Art
Hewlett Packard Higher Education. Ada
16 Compaq Proliant DL380 servers for the College of Engineering
Marc Keane. Ithaca. New York
a collection of 3.800 historic 35mm architectural slides by photographer Charles Wilson Tenny for
the University Library
Microsoft CorPoration. Princeton. New Jersey
various software and hardware for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Yokogawa Comoration of America. Newnan. Georgia
two digital storage oscilloscopes for the College of Engineering


53




September Meeting, 2004


Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions. He
highlighted the appointment of David W. Cohen as the Lemuel A. Johnson Collegiate
Professor of African History and Anthropology.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR AASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
EJfective on the dates indicated
Berguer, Ramon, M.D., Ph.D., Professor of Surgery, Medical School, September 23, 2004
Boulton, Matthew, M.D., Associate Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2004, and Associate Dean for Practice, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Cressman, Joel L., M.F.A.,Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, and
Associate Professor in the Residential College, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2004
Crowell, Susan E., M.F.A., Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, and
Associate Professor in the Residential College, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2004
Goddard, Roger, Ph.D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, School of
Education, September 1, 2004
Lyon, Thomas Peyton, Ph.D., Dow Professor of Sustainable Science, Technology, and Commerce and
Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, School of Business Administration, and Professor
of Natural Resources and Environment, without tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, September 1, 2004
Mclnnis, Melvin G., M.D., Thomas B. and Nancy Upjohn Woodworth Professor of Bipolar Disorder and
Depression, Medical School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009, and Professor of Psychiatry,
Medical School, September 1, 2004
Mustata, Mircea, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004
Northrop, Douglas T., Ph.D., Associate Professor of History and Associate Professor of Near Eastern
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004
Redman, Richard W., Ph.D., Professor of Nursing and Director of Doctoral and Postdoctoral Programs,
School of Nursing, November 1, 2004
Roberts, Joyce E., Ph.D., Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, October 1, 2004, and Director of the
Nurse Midwifery Program, School of Nursing, January 1, 2005-December 31, 2007
Shanley, Thomas P., M.D., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, September 23, 2004
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Allen, Geri, M.A., Associate Professor of Music (Jazz and Improvisation), School of Music,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2008
Gershoff, Andrew D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Marketing, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2004
Rajan, Uday, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Finance, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2004
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
ANYDSELEEVDA AI CADE        C ADI   NISTRATIVE STAFF
EJfective on the dates indicated
Alexander, Lois, Chair, Department of Music and Art, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Dey, Eric L., Executive Associate Dean, School of Education, August 1, 2004-July 31, 2005
Furnas, George W., Associate Dean for Academic Strategy, School of Information,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2006
Grosky, William I., Chair, Department of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn College of
Engineering and Computer Science, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Mercer, Graham I., Assistant Dean, School of Business Administration, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006


54




September Meeting, 2004


Mindell, David P., Director, Museum of Zoology, and Director, Herbarium, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Nair, Vijayan N., Chair, Department of Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Oaklander, Lester N., Chair, Department of Philosophy, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
January 1-June 30, 2005
Ralston, Steven, Chair, Department of Communication, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Barnett, Robert W., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean,
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2007
Ceccio, Steven L., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Naval
Architecture and Marine Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, also appointed
Associate Vice President for Research, Office of the Vice President for Research,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Clauw, Daniel J., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Psychiatry, without
tenure, also appointed Assistant Dean for Clinical and Transitional Research, Medical School,
September 1, 2004
Corbett, James R., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Internal Medicine,
without tenure, Medical School, September 1, 2004
Loeb, Louis E., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, also appointed Acting Chair, Department of
Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Root, Margaret C., Professor of Classical and Near Eastern Art and Archaeology, with tenure, also
appointed Acting Director, Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Scavia, Donald, Professor of Natural Resources, without tenure, and Director of Michigan Sea Grant,
also appointed Associate Dean for Research, School of Natural Resources and Environment,
September 1, 2004-June 30, 3007
Smith, Bradley R., Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean for Creative
Work, Research and Graduate Education, School of Art and Design, September 1, 2004-June 30, 2009
Woolliscroft, James O., Lyon C. Roll Professor of Medicine, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure,
and Executive Associate Dean, also appointed Professor of Medical Education, without tenure,
Medical School, September 1, 2004
Zink, Brian J., from Assistant Dean for Medical Student Career Development to Associate Dean for
Student Programs, Medical School, September 1, 2004
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Renaming Existing Collegiate Professorships
Frank O. Copley Collegiate Professorship of Classics and Roman Law, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, August 1, 2004
From the Gerald F. Else Professorship in Humanities to Gerald F. Else Collegiate Professorship in
Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004
S.P. Hicks Collegiate Professorship in Pathology, Medical School, August 1, 2004
Lemuel A. Johnson Collegiate Professorship of African History and Anthropology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004
Lawrence R. Klein Collegiate Professorship in Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004
Vernon Louis Parrington Collegiate Professorship in Literary and Cultural Criticism, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004
Robert W. Parry Collegiate Professorship in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004
Herbert E. Robbins Collegiate Professorship in Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004
James N. Spuhler Collegiate Professorship in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004


55




September Meeting, 2004


Daniel J. Wentraub Collegiate Professorship in Psychology and Neuroscience, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004
Establishing a Named Professorship
Leland Ira Doan Research Professorship in Vascular Surgery, Medical School, August 1, 2004
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appotintment to Colleiate Profep~~o ip
Allen, James W., Joaquin M. Luttinger Collegiate Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Antonucci, Toni C., Elizabeth M. Douvan Collegiate Professor of Psychology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Chinnaiyan, Arul M., S.P. Hicks Collegiate Professor of Pathology, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Cohen, David W., Lemuel A. Johnson Collegiate Professor of African History and Anthropology,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Frier, Bruce W., Frank O. Copley Collegiate Professor of Classics and Roman Law, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Jackson, John E., M. Kent Jennings Collegiate Professor of Political Science, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Janko, Richard C. M., Gerald F. Else Collegiate Professor of Classical Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Jonides, John, Daniel J. Weintraub Collegiate Professor of Psychology and Neuroscience, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Meyerhoff, Mark E., Philip J. Elving Collegiate Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Mitani, John C., James N. Spuhler Collegiate Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Murphy, Susan A., Herbert E. Robbins Collegiate Professor of Statistics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Sarter, Martin F., Charles M. Butter Collegiate Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Shapiro, Matthew D., Lawrence R. Klein Collegiate Professor of Economics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Siebers, Tobin A., Vernon Louis Parrington Collegiate Professor of Literary and Cultural Criticism,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Woodroofe, Michael B., Leonard J. Savage Collegiate Professor of Statistics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Yaghi, Omar M., Robert W. Parry Collegiate Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Appointments to Endowed Professorships
Bove, Edward L., Helen F. and Marvin M. Kirsh Professor of Cardiac Surgery, Medical School,
August 1, 2004-July 31, 2009
Mahlke, Scott A., Morris Wellman Faculty Development Assistant Professor, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2006
Sturgeon, Scott, Marshall M. Weinberg Endowed Distinguished Visiting Professor of Philosophy,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 2005
Appointiments to Named Prfessorshis
Hoffman, Andrew J., Holcim Professor in Sustainable Enterprise, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Krohn, Charles A., Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor of Journalism, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Levine, Daniel H., James Orin Murfin Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 30, 2007
Upchurch, Gilbert R., Jr., Leland Ira Doan Research Professor of Vascular Surgery, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009


56




September Meeting, 2004


Reappointment to an Endowed Professorship
Walsh, James P., Gerald and Esther Carey Professor of Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2009
Reapointments to Named Professorshps
Duenyas, Izak, John Psarouthakis Research Professor of Manufacturing, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2006
Imhoff, Eugene A., Jr., Ernst and Young Professor of Accounting, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2009
Kim, E. Han, Fred M. Taylor Professor of Business Administration, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2009
Lundholm, Russell J., Arthur Andersen Professor of Accounting, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2009
White, B. Joseph, Wilbur K. Pierpont Collegiate Professor of Leadership in Management Education,
School of Business Administration, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2009
Other Transactions
Baily, Todd M., Assistant Dean for Development and Alumni Relations, Law School, September 7, 2004
Bridges, Katherine A., Associate Vice President for Information Technology Central Services, Office of
the Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs, September 1, 2004
Charles, Kerwin K., from Associate Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of
Public Policy, and Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
to Associate Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, and
Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004
DiNardo, John E., from Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,
and Professor of Economics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to
Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, and Professor of
Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004
Eklund, Susan M., Interim Dean of Students for Student Affairs, Office of the Vice President for Student
Affairs, August 9, 2004
Establishment of Assistant Dean for Enrollment Management and Student Services, School of Music,
September 1, 2004
Establishment of Associate Dean for Internet Publication, School of Music, September 1, 2004
Moon, I. Douglas, Dean, UM-Flint School of Management, September 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Senneff, Carol F., Executive Director of University Audits, Office of the President, October 4, 2004
Stillman, Amy K., from Associate Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), with tenure, School
of Music, and Associate Professor of American Culture, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, to Associate Professor of American Culture, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004
Strozeski, Laura J., Assistant Dean for Enrollment Management and Student Services, School of Music,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Brown, Catherine, faculty representative, retroactive, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007, vice Sherman A.
James, term expired
Edick, Paul, student representative, retroactive, September 1, 2004-June 30, 2006, vice Tania G. Brown,
term expired
Gaither, Caroline A., faculty representative, retroactive, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007, vice Christin
Carter-Su, term expired
Mead, Andrew W., faculty representative, retroactive, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005, vice Rebecca J. Scott
unable to serve
Rumelhart, Judith Dow, alumni representative, retroactive, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006, vice Geraldine
Bledsoe Ford, term expired
Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
Gelman, Susan A., retroactive, September 1, 2004-June 30, 2005, vice Terrence J. McDonald,
administrative restructuring


57




September Meeting, 2004


CORRECTION OF COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Horace H. Rackham School of Grauate Studies Executive Boad
Gallimore, Alec D., September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007, vice Phillip E. Savage, term expired,
(previously reported as vice Steven L. Ceccio, term expired)
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted the following personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Abbenante, Mark, M.A., Lecturer in Psychology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Admiraal, Suzanne J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Aizman, Alexander W., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
July 7, 2004-July 6, 2006
Akin, David W., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Alderman, Amy K., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Andreatta, Pamela B., ED.D., Clinical Lecturer in Medical Education, Medical School,
July 19, 2004-June 19, 2005
Bai, Wenyu, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, August 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Bensalem, Meriem K., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Berke, Joshua D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2008
Bertellini, Giorgio, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Film and Video Studies and Assistant Professor of
Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Boczar, Michael E., D.O., Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Brzezinski, David W., M.D., Lecturer in Anatomical Sciences, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Bucholz, Jeffrey T., D.O., Clinical Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, August 1, 2004-July 31, 2005
Bump, Gregory M., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
Buu, Yuh-Pey A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Caird, Michelle S., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School,
August 16, 2004-August 31, 2005
Caldwell, Matthew D., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Cazan-London, Kevin, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
July 19, 2004-August 31, 2005
Chan, Ho-Man P., B.S., Assistant Professor of Economics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Chang, Charmaine W., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
July 7, 2004-July 6, 2005
Chao, Mwe Mwe, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Chatkoff, David K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Chughtai, Aamer R., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, August 16, 2004-August 15, 2005
Collins, Peter, M.S., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2004
Cox, Amanda M., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Dandu, Madhavi, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
Daneshgari, Parviz, Ph.D., Lecturer in Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering, UM-Dearborn
College of Engineering and Computer Science, July 1-August 31, 2004
De Maeseneer, Michel, Ph.D., Clinical Professor of Radiology, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Deguzman, David A., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006


58




September Meeting, 2004


Demirci, Hakan, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
July 7, 2004-July 6, 2006
Deng, Jane C., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Diblassio, Brian W., M.M., Lecturer in Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Douglas, Darryl L., Psy.D., Lecturer in Psychology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Duff, Renee E., D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
September 1, 2004-August 24, 2007
Eisenberg, Daniel, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Health Management and Policy, School of Public
Health, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Espinoza-Pino, Cristhian C., M.Sc., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Fan, Audrey L., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Fazzalari, Frank, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 6, 2004-July 5, 2005
Finseth, lan F., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Fleming, Amy E., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
August 15, 2004-August 14, 2005
Foster, Zoe J., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, June 30-December 31, 2004
Geary, Jason D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Musicology, School of Music, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2008
Gershoff, Andrew D., Ph.D., Lecturer in Marketing, School of Business Administration,
July 1-August 31, 2004
Gershoff, Elizabeth T., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Gillies, Anthony S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Goddard, Yvonne L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2008
Gollin, Sandra M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2004
Goodson, Stephanie L., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, August 15, 2004-July 31, 2005
Grewing, Farouk, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Guo, Yi, Ph.D., Instructor in Management Studies, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2007
Guthrie-Buresh, Danelle, M.A., Lecturer in Architecture and Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman
College of Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Haase, Steven, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Hackworth, Carolyn M., B.S.E., Assistant Professor of Air Force Officer Education Program, Air Force
Officer Education Program, July 1, 2004-July 31, 2007
Hafez, Khaled S., M.B.B.CH., Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Halpert, Julie L., B.A., Lecturer II in English and Communication, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Harding, Christopher T., M.M., Assistant Professor of Music, School of Music,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2008
Havrilcsak, Gregory M., M.A., Lecturer in History, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Hershock, Chad D., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2004
Higgins, Peter D., Ph.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Hill, Eric J., Ph.D., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Hill, Lori D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, and Assistant Professor of
Afro-American and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2008
Hodne, Krista A., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Horowitz, Jeffrey C., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Hursey, Darrin R., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Jabarin, Annissa F., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine and Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July 9, 2004-July 8, 2006


59




September Meeting, 2004


Kaul, Daniel R., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Kelleher, Christine A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Khan, Asra S., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Khatri, Lakshmi, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
Kim, Christopher S., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
Knoll, Theresa R., M.A., Lecturer in Foreign Language, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Krokos, Irene, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
Krukonis, Eric S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Lamers, Luke J., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Langewisch, Eric D., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Lao, Christopher D., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Larsen, Janet L., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Lath, Vanika, M.B., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 26, 2004-August 31, 2005
Lee, Stanley S., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School,
August 16, 2004-August 31, 2005
Li, Feng, Ph.D., Lecturer in Business, School of Business Administration, July 1-August 31, 2004
LoCasto, Paul C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Lofton, Shylynn, M.A., Lecturer III in Comprehensive Studies Program, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Lovasco, Laura, M.P.T., Instructor in Physical Therapy, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies, August 1, 2004-July 31, 2007
Luster-Turner, Rose M., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2007
Lyon, Thomas P., Ph.D., Lecturer in Economics, School of Business Administration, July 1-August 31, 2004
Mabanckou, Alain M., M.A., Assistant Professor of Afro-American and African Studies and Assistant
Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Maggio, Paul M., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Malek, Sami, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Manda, Karuna, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Matthews, Gerald E., Ph.D., Lecturer in Africana Studies, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
McGill, Anthony D., Ph.D., Lecturer in Communications, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
McMahon, Teresa A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
McMann, Lori L., Ph.D., Lecturer in French, Romance Languages, and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Meredith, Neil R., Jr., M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Meyers, Jennifer L., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Minehart, Stephen J., D.M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 15, 2004-July 14, 2005
Mizrachi, Iris Ben-Bassat, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical
School, July 7, 2004-July 6, 2005
Mobley, Natalie H., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Moffat, Bradford A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, August 1, 2004-July 31, 2005
Momcilovic, Petar, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College
of Engineering, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Mourany, Bassem S., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Munroe, Derwin S., Ph.D., Lecturer in Political Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Nallamothu, Brahmajee K., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005


60




September Meeting, 2004


Neaton, Daniel A., M.A., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1-August 31, 2004
Nemzek, Jean A., D.V.M., Assistant Professor of Laboratory Animal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Ng, Linda, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Nordhielm, Christie L., Ph.D., Lecturer in Marketing, School of Business Administration,
July 1-August 31, 2004
Nordstrom, Harriett L., M.A., Lecturer in Psychology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
O'Brien, Patrick, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Oey, Marion S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Okumura, Megumi J., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Onwuzurike, Indira I., M.B., Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Oppenheim, Tracey S., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Psychiatry, Medical School, July 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Paek, Sandra C., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Dermatology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
Paley, Julia F., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, and Assistant
Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Pickett, Linda K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint School of Education,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Pienta, Amy, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Pierce, John C., M.M., Assistant Professor of Music, School of Music, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2008
Purnanandam, Amiyatosh K., Ph.D., Lecturer in Finance, School of Business Administration,
July 1-August 31, 2004
Putman, Mary E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Rajan, Uday, Ph.D., Lecturer in Finance, School of Business Administration, July 1-August 31, 2004
Robson, James, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Ross, Jacob M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September
1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Rubenstein, Joel H., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Saini, Seema, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 1, 2004-July 31, 2005
Sato, Tetsuya, M.A., Lecturer III in East Asian Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Schiller, Jocelyn H., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Schuster, Timothy G., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Shehab, Nadine, Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy,
August 16, 2004-August 31, 2007
Shill, Jessica E., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Silver, Naomi E., Ph.D., Lecturer III in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Silverman, Eugene M., M.D., Clinical Associate Professor of Pathology, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Smerage, Jeffrey, Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Smith, Roger, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
September 15, 2004-August 31, 2005
Sohn, Woosung, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
November 9, 2003-November 8, 2006
Stefanac, Stephen J., D.D.S., Clinical Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2009
Stein, Brian, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Sweeney, Megan L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature and Assistant
Professor of Afro-American and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Swift, Carrie M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Natural Sciences, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Szumko, Christine B., B.S.E., Assistant Professor of Air Force Officer Education Program, Air Force
Officer Education Program, July 1, 2004-July 31, 2007


61




September Meeting, 2004


Taber, Stephanie S., Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy,
August 16, 2004-August 31, 2007
Ticktin, Miriam I., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Women's Studies and Assistant Professor of
Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Valero, Magali N., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Accounting and Finance, UM-Dearbom School of
Management, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2007
VanCleave, Jeanne, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine and Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Voshel, Elizabeth H., M.S., Clinical Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Westphal, Cynthia L., M.Mus., Clinical Assistant Professor of Music, School of Music,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2008
Williams, Joy C., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Wolf, Mary C., M.S., Lecturer I in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2004
Woodbridge, James A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Woolford, Susan J., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Wu, Bryant, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Wu, Cynthia S., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
August 24, 2004-August 23, 2005
Yen, Gary, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Young, Jennifer L., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Zelek, Timothy R., J.D., Instructor, Navy Officer Education Program, July 6, 2004-July 5, 2006
CANCELLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Moghtader, Jeremy K., B.S., Lecturer I in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Aiyer, Ananthakrishnan, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Sociology, Anthropology, and Criminal
Justice, UM-Flint College of Arts and Science, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Anderson, Michelle, from Clinical Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
Armstrong, Aimee K., from Clinical Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
Chang, Annette M., from Clinical Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2011
Clemons, William E., from Clinical Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical
School, July 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Esfandiari, Nazanene, from Clinical Lecturer to Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Foufopoulos, Johannes, Assistant Professor of Natural Resources, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, also appointed Assistant Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2005
Fox, Helen, Lecturer III in English, Sweetland Writing Center, also appointed Lecturer III in English,
Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Frohna, John G., Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases also appointed
Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, May 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Fullen, Douglas R., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology also appointed Clinical Assistant Professor
of Dermatology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Harrel, Carla M., from Lecturer to Clinical Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
January 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Heisler, Mary E. M., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008


62




September Meeting, 2004


Kirkland, Anna R., from Lecturer I in Women's Studies and Lecturer I in Political Science to Assistant
Professor of Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Lypson, Monica L., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2009
Madison, Julia E., from Clinical Lecturer to Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
McAllister-Lucas, Linda M., from Clinical Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
McMorris, Marc S., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine also appointed Clinical Assistant
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
August 1, 2004-July 31, 2006
Modey, Christine A., from Lecturer II in English, Sweetland Writing Center and Lecturer II in English,
Department of English Language and Literature, to Lecturer II in English, Sweetland Writing
Center, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Mooney, David J., from Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, without tenure, and Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without
tenure, College of Engineering, and Professor of Biologic and Materials Science, with tenure,
School of Dentistry, to Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, without tenure, and Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without
tenure, College of Engineering, July 1, 2004
Roberson, Peter L., from Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical
School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2006
Silveira, Maria J., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2011
Sivadasan, Jagadeesh M., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Business, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Soter, Gina M., from Lecturer II in Classical Studies and Lecturer II in Residential College to Lecturer III
in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Tekell, Janet, from Lecturer to Clinical Associate Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School,
June 9, 2004-June 30, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Abrams, Gerald D., Professor Emeritus of Pathology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
Aminoff, David, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Chambers, L. Ross, Marvin Felheim Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of French and
Comparative Literature and Professor Emeritus of French and Comparative Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Chesler, Mark, Professor Emeritus of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September
1-December 31, 2004
Crowfoot, James E., Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources and Urban and Regional Planning, School
of Natural Resources and Environment, September 1-December 31, 2004
Curtis, George C., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, Medical School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Gikas, Paul W., Professor Emeritus of Pathology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
Gomberg, Edith S., Professor Emerita of Psychology, Medical School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Henley, Keith S., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Hiss, Roland G., Professor Emeritus of Medical Education, Medical School, July 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Kammash, Terry, Stephen S. Attwood Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Nuclear
Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of Engineering, September 1-December 31, 2004
Louis, Dean S., Professor Emeritus of Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School, August 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Maple, Frank F., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Social Work, School of Social Work,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Matthews, Larry S., Professor Emeritus of Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School,
October 8, 2004-October 7, 2005
Oakley, Bruce, Professor Emeritus of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Oberman, Harold A., Professor Emeritus of Pathology, Medical School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Slavens, Thomas P., Professor Emeritus of Information, School of Information, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Sloan, Herbert, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, September 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Zweifler, Andrew, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005


63




September Meeting, 2004


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Adams, Julian P., Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Ahbel-Rappe, Sara L., Associate Professor of Greek and Latin Studies, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Amin, Camron M., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Axelrod, Robert, Arthur W. Bromage Distinguished Professor of Political Science and Public Policy and
Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Babaie, Sussan, Assistant Professor of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Baker, Dennis G., Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure,
College of Engineering, retirement furlough, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Bender, Robert A., Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Beydoun, Ahmad A., Professor of Neurology, with tenure, Medical School, personal leave,
November 30, 2003-November 28, 2004
Birkmeyer, Nancy J., Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure, Medical School, child care leave,
March 5-July 4, 2004
Bjomrn, Lars, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Bucksbaum, Philip H., Otto Laporte Collegiate Professor of Physics and Professor of Physics, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Canary, Richard D., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2004, and sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Chapman, Daniel K., Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical School, and Clinical
Instructor in Environmental and Industrial Health, School of Public Health, child care leave,
August 13-September 13, 2004
Colletti, Lisa M., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, personal leave, August 1-31, 2004
Connell, Cathleen M., Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, School of Public
Health, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Constant, Caroline B., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004, and
September 1-December 31, 2005
Coronil, Fernando, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Davies, Peter H., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
De Young, Raymond K., Associate Professor of Conservation Behavior, with tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Dichev, Ilia D., Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, School of Business Administration,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Dimendberg, Edward, Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Film and Video Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, outside teaching leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Dowling, David R., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Eliav, Milka, Lecturer III in Hebrew Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, personal
leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Erickson, Susan N., Associate Professor of Art History, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Fine, John V., Jr., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
extended sick leave, September 22-December 31, 2004
Fogler, H. Scott, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, Vennema Professor of Chemical Engineering, and
Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005


64




September Meeting, 2004


Friedmann, Peretz P., Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Professor of Aerospace Engineering and Professor of
Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Frier, Bruce W., Professor of Classics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Henry King Ransom Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Garland, Frank, Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, retirement furlough, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Ghosh, Amit K., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of
Mechanical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September
1-December 31, 2004
Grotberg, James B., Professor of Biomedical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, and Professor
of Surgery, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Hakam, Imane A., Associate Professor of French, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Hansen, Will, Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2005
Hathaway, James C., James E. and Sarah A. Degan Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure,
Law School, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Heath, Jeffrey G., Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, and Professor of Near Eastern Studies, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Herrero-Olaizola, Alejandro, Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1-December 31, 2004
Hinman, Peter G., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Hook, Peter E., Professor of Indo-Aryan Languages, with tenure, and Professor of Linguistics, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, outside teaching leave,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Hughes, Diane O., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Jonsson, Mattias, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Kabamba, Pierre T., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Keenan, Gail M., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Keizer, Arlene R., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Afro-American and African Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, outside teaching leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Kennedy, Michael D., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, July 1-December 31, 2004
Klein, Katherine A., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, without tenure, Medical School, extended
sick leave, May 6-June 30, 2004
Kleiner, Bruce A., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Kotre, John N., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, retirement furlough, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Krisch, Jean P., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research
leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Lieberthal, Kenneth G., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and William Davidson Professor of Business Administration and Professor of Business
Administration, with tenure, School of Business Administration, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Lithgow-Bertelloni, Carolina R., Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Lott, John W., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Luthra, Rashmi, Associate Professor of Communications and Composition, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Meek, Barbara A., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Mirecki-Millunchick, Joanna, Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Moerman, Daniel E., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, retirement furlough, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005


65




September Meeting, 2004


Mueggler, Erik A., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Naaman, Antoine E., Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, retirement
furlough, July 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Nkanga, Mbala D., Assistant Professor of Afro-American and African Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Assistant Professor of Theatre and Drama, School of Music, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Noble, Brian D., Morris Wellman Faculty Development Assistant Professor and Associate Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Norich, Anita, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Judaic Studies, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Norman, Richard S., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, retirement furlough, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
O'Connor, Carla, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2005
Paige, Jeffery M., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Pan, Jwo, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2005
Perfecto, Ivette, Associate Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, with tenure, School of
Natural Resources and Environment, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Perlove, Shelley K., Professor of Art History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Pitt, Bertram, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Princen, Thomas E., Associate Professor of International Natural Resources and Environment Policy,
with tenure, School of Natural Resources and Environment, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Radnell, David, T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Assistant Professor
of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research leave,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Raghavan, Malini, Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, Medical School,
sabbatical leave, August 1, 2004-July 31, 2005
Rauch, Jeffrey B., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Reed, Beth G., Associate Professor of Social Work and Women's Studies, with tenure, School of Social
Work, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Saitou, Kazuhiro, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Saunders, Daniel G., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Scott, Rebecca J., Charles Gibson Distinguished University Professor of History and Professor of
History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Law, without
tenure, Law School, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Shumway, Tyler G., Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure, School of Business Administration,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Smith, Karen E., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Smoller, Joel A., Lamberto Cesari Collegiate Professor of Mathematics and Professor of Mathematics,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Solomon, Michael J., Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Sorom, Galen R., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, extended sick leave,
July 16-August 16, 2004, and child care leave, August 17-September 29, 2004
Stern, Jeffrey J., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Swales, John M., Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Thornton, J. Mills, III., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005


66




September Meeting, 2004


Verdery, Katherine M., Eric R. Wolf Professor of Anthropology and Professor of Anthropology, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September
1-December 31, 2004
Weineck, Silke-Maria, Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
West, Mark D., Nippon Life Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Whittier-Ferguson, John A., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Winful, Herbert G., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Wooldridge, Margaret S., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Yalisove, Steven M., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Yen, Gary, Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, personal leave, July 1-August 31, 2004
Zhou, Bing, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Zurier, Rebecca, Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Abriola, Linda M., Horace Williams King Collegiate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering,
Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Chemical
Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, June 30, 2004
Baker, Kathleen M., Assistant Professor of Earth and Resource Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, May 31, 2004
Beretta-Hanash, Laura M., Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, Medical
School, July 14, 2004
Bliss, Sandra J., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, and Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Brown, Kenneth R., Lecturer II in Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 1, 2004
Canfora, Anselmo G., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, May 31, 2004
Cornejo-Krohn, Lourdes, Lecturer I in Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
D'Andrea, Lynn A., Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, August 3, 2004
Dahl, Scott J., Assistant Professor of Theatre, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, August 31, 2004
Dennis, Robert G., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, and Assistant Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering, June 30, 2004
Ethier, Stephen P., Ruth Tuttle Freeman Research Professor of Radiation Oncology and Professor of
Radiation Oncology, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor of Environmental Health
Sciences, without tenure, School of Public Health, July 31, 2004
Foley, C. Fritz T., Assistant Professor of Corporate Strategy and International Business, School of
Business Administration, May 31, 2004
Futuyma, Douglas J., Lawrence B. Slobodkin Collegiate Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
and Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 31, 2004
Gantz, Ira, Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, July 31, 2004
George, Roshini, Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Gikandi, Simon E., Robert Hayden Collegiate Professor of English Language and Literature, Professor of
English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of Comparative Literature, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2004
Hanash, Samir M., Henry Sewall Professor of Medicine and Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, with tenure, Medical School, July 31, 2004
Hoff, Donna L. H., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, July 31, 2004
Ilag, Liza L., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 17, 2004
Jennings, Jeffrey, Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Johnson, Valen E., Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health, August 31, 2004


67




September Meeting, 2004


Kamtekar, Rachana, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Katehi, Linda P. B., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, December 31, 2003
Kazmers, Irene S., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 2, 2004
Kennedy, Michael V., Assistant Professor of History, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, May 31, 2004
Kim, Hyung J., Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine and Clinical Assistant Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July 31, 2004
Kou, William H., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, July 31, 2004
Leung, Man K., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Lin, Jiayuh, Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, August 31, 2004
Logsdon, Craig D., Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, with tenure, Medical School,
July 31, 2004
Mehta, Rajendra H., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Munoz, Solange I., Lecturer II in Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Nakano, Tsutomu, Assistant Professor of Strategy, UM-Flint School of Management, May 31, 2004
Nolen-Hoeksema, Susan K., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Professor of Psychiatry, without tenure, Medical School, May 31, 2004
Robens, Cornelius, Clinical Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, August 20, 2004
Ross, Barbara W., Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Management,
May 31, 2004
Sandretto, Annette M., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 2004
Sawyer, Robbin A.W., Assistant Professor of Aerospace Studies, Air Force Officer Education Program,
June 30, 2004
Shen, Joseph P., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Smith, David J., Jr., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Stanley, Jason, Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2004
Stevens, Deryth L., Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Medical School, July 31, 2004
Stoler, Ann L., Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor of Anthropology, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure,
and Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2004
Takacs, James, Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Dearborn School of Education, June 30, 2004
Tandon, Rajiv, Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Treloar, David J., Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School, August 10, 2004
Valentine, John B., Clinical Assistant Professor of Cariology, Restorative Sciences, and Endodontics,
School of Dentistry, July 30, 2004
Wallace, John M., Jr., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work,
December 31, 2003
Wyneken, Matthew F., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, July 31, 2004
Retired
Barr, Mason, Jr., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Professor of
Teratology, without tenure, and Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without tenure, Medical
School, June 30, 2004
Bashshur, Rashid L., Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of Public Health,
May 31, 2004
Clewell, Don B., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Professor of Microbiology
and Immunology, with tenure, Medical School, May 31, 2004
Dielman, Teddy E., Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, without tenure, School of Public
Health, and Professor of Medical Education, with tenure, Medical School, August 15, 2004
Hanks, Carl T., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Associate Professor of
Pathology, without tenure, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Hopwood, Nancy J., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical School,
July 31, 2004
Hymans, Saul H., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Levin, Donald M., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, June 30, 2004
MacCallum, Donald K., Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, with tenure, Medical School,
June 30, 2004


68




September Meeting, 2004


Marans, Robert W., Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, May 31, 2004
Rasmussen, James E., Professor of Dermatology, with tenure, and Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, without tenure, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Schottenfeld, David, John G. Searle Professor of Epidemiology and Professor of Epidemiology, with
tenure, School of Public Health, and Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School,
August 31, 2004
Silverman, Eugene M., Clinical Associate Professor of Pathology, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Term Comipleted
Angell, Sonia Y., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Balla, Angela J., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2004
Beke, Tibor, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 31, 2004
Bialostozky, Adriana, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Bolina, Jaswinder S., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2004
Borger, Jean M., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2004
Brechin, Steven R., Associate Professor of Environmental Sociology, without tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, June 30, 2004
Clark, Chad M., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Cogburn, Derrick L., Assistant Professor of Information, School of Information, and Assistant Professor
of Afro-American and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2004
Coupet, Sacha M., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, July 31, 2004
DebRoy, Meelie A., Clinical Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Duggan, Sean B., Assistant Professor of Music, School of Music, May 31, 2004
Edlund, Steven Z., Clinical Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 30, 2004
Fetzer, April M., Clinical Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, July 13, 2004
Fournier, Michael S., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 2004
Frantz, Sarah S. G., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2004
Fung, Kevin, Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Gillard, Montgomery O., Lecturer in Dermatology, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Gunnlaugsson, Chad B., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Halpert, Julie L., Lecturer II in English and Communication, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2003
Inampudi, Prasuna, Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Ismail, Marika Z., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2004
Johnston, William K., III., Lecturer in Urology, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Khan, Amina I., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Koay, Thomas, Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Kocheril, Sosa, Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Koster, James J., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, July 6, 2004
Leake, Deirdre S., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Lee, Dave H., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, July 6, 2004
Mabry, Iris, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, June 30, 2004
McNulty, Mary L., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 2004
Miner-Rubino, Kathi N., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2004
Myers, John P., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, July 6, 2004
Patel, Anup M., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 24, 2004
Polidori, David J., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Simms-Burton, Michele L., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2004
Stoffel, John T., Lecturer in Urology, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Ten Eyck, Gary R., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2004
Van't Veld, Klaas T., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Watson, Amanda L., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2004
White, Casey B., Lecturer in Medical Education, Medical School, May 31, 2004
Wolfson, Sarah A., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2004


69




September Meeting, 2004


Ybasco, Albert, Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted 17 faculty retirement
memoirs. She called attention to the retirement of Professor Saul Hymans, director of
the University's renowned Economic Outlet Conference.     Provost Courant also
commented on Professor Hyman's contributions, particularly with respect to the
Research Center on Quantitative Economics.
Mason Barr, Jr., M.D., professor of pediatrics and communicable diseases,
professor of teratology, and professor of obstetrics and gynecology in the Medical
School, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2004.
Dr. Barr received his B.A. degree from Haverford College (1957) and his M.D.
degree from George Washington University (1961). From 1961-69, he served in the
U.S. Navy, with successive appointments as a medical officer, pediatrician, chief
pediatrician, and medical officer and pediatric consultant.  Dr. Barr joined the
University of Michigan faculty as an instructor of pediatrics in 1966 and was promoted
to assistant professor in 1969, associate professor in 1974, and professor in 1983. In
recognition of his significant contributions in fetal pathology and teratology, he was
also appointed professor of pathology (1986) and professor of obstetrics and
gynecology (1988).
In the area of clinical care, Dr. Barr's research interests centered on teratology and
fetal pathology, and he has been director of the pediatric rehabilitation myelodysplasia
unit and teratology unit since 1972. He served as the attending physician for general
pediatrics, for the inpatient and outpatient myelodysplasia units, and for the genetics
inpatient consults area in Women's Hospital and the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit. He
is widely recognized for his work on fetal somatic and visceral morphometrics, neural
tube defects, survival and performance of individuals with holoprosencephaly,
teratogenesis of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, and causes of fetal demise in
Turner Syndrome. Dr. Barr has been president of the Teratology Society (1992-93),
chair of the International Federation of Teratology Societies (2001-03), and a member of
many other professional societies. He has presented over 120 invited lectures.
As an educator in the field of fetal pathology, Dr. Barr is without equal in the
United States. He is well-known for his clinical pathology conferences with pediatric
residents and for enlightening and scholarly presentations at the Teratology Conference.
Over the years, numerous trainees have benefited from their association with Dr. Barr in
laboratory and clinical settings.
The Regents salute this dedicated teacher, researcher, and scholar by naming Mason
Barr, Jr., professor emeritus of pediatrics and communicable diseases, professor emeritus of
teratology, and professor emeritus of obstetrics and gynecology.
Don B. Clewell, Ph.D., professor of dentistry in the School of Dentistry and
professor of microbiology and immunology in the Medical School, retired from active
faculty status on August 31, 2004.
Professor Clewell received his A.B. degree from The Johns Hopkins University
in 1963 and his Ph.D. degree from Indiana University in 1967. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty as assistant professor of dentistry and assistant professor
of microbiology (now microbiology and immunology) in 1970, and he was promoted to
associate professor in 1973 and professor in 1977. Professor Clewell also served in the


70




September Meeting, 2004


Dental Research Institute as an associate research scientist from 1977-80 and research
scientist from 1980-89.
Professor Clewell's research has focused on molecular biology, molecular
genetics, and nucleic acid chemistry. Most recently he revealed mechanisms of
bacterial conjugation, the phenomenon by which DNA is transferred from one bacterial
cell to another.  His investigations mainly address the transfer of plasmids and
conjugative transposons in the genus Enterococcus. Professor Clewell has published
three textbooks and more than 200 papers and articles, and he has one patent to his
credit. He is a member of the American Society for Microbiology, the American
Association for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, the American Association of Oral
Biologists, and the International Association for Dental Research. In 2003, he became a
fellow of the American Academy of Microbiology. Within the School of Dentistry,
Professor Clewell served on a number of committees including the Student Academic
Review Board, the Oral Health Sciences Ph.D. Program Committee, and the Oral
Health Sciences Preliminary Examination Committee. He received the University's
Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award in 2002 and the Medical School's
Distinguished Faculty Lectureship Award in Biomedical Research in 2003.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Don B.
Clewell professor emeritus of dentistry and professor emeritus of microbiology and
immunology.
Teddy E. Dielman, Ph.D., professor of health behavior and health education in
the School of Public Health and professor of medical education and assistant director of
the Office of Educational Resources and Research in the Medical School, retired from
active faculty status on August 15, 2004.
Professor Dielman received his B.A. degree from the University of Kansas in
1964 and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Hawaii in 1965 and 1970,
respectively. He joined the University of Michigan as a study director in the Institute
for Social Research in 1972. He was appointed assistant research scientist in 1973 and
was promoted to associate research scientist in 1976. From 1974-77 he was a lecturer
in the psychology department, and in 1978 he was appointed assistant director of
Postgraduate Medicine and Health Program Education (now the Office of Educational
Resources and Research) and associate professor of postgraduate medicine and health
professions education (now medical education). He was promoted to professor in 1983
and received an additional appointment as professor of health behavior and health
education in 1986.
Professor Dielman achieved an international reputation in behavioral medicine,
particularly in the areas of coronary-prone behavior in Type A individuals and
alcoholism in pre-teens and adolescents. Working with investigators in the School of
Nursing and School of Public Health, his external research funding exceeded one
million dollars annually in the early 1990s. He made numerous presentations at national
and international professional meetings and published over 80 peer-reviewed articles,
five chapters, and one book. He was active on the editorial boards of and reviewed
articles for such journals as Science, Psychological Documents, the Journal of
Gerontology, and the Journal of Multivariate Experimental Clinical Psychology.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist, scholar, and educator for his
dedicated service by naming Teddy E. Dielman professor emeritus of health behavior
and health education and professor emeritus of medical education.


71




September Meeting, 2004


Stephen A. Eklund, D.D.S., Dr.P.H., professor of dental public health in the
School of Public Health and adjunct clinical professor of dentistry in the School of
Dentistry, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2004, after a most productive
career as a distinguished researcher and teacher.
Dr. Eklund received his B.S., D.D.S., M.H.S.A., and Dr.P.H. degrees from the
University of Michigan in 1969, 1973, 1977, and 1981, respectively. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty as a lecturer in dental public health in 1979 and was
promoted to assistant professor in 1981, associate professor in 1987, and professor in
2001. Dr. Eklund received an additional appointment as assistant professor of dentistry
in 1981. He was appointed adjunct associate professor in 1992 and adjunct clinical
professor in 2002.
Dr. Eklund is widely acknowledged, both nationally and internationally, as one of
the leaders in his field. Several of his publications have been highlighted by journal
editors and are described as classics with exceptionally high impact, and a textbook he
co-authored is considered the standard for the field. His efforts to meld research in the
epidemiology of oral disease with research on the provision and financing of dental care
have created a new model of research outside of the usual "boxes." After many years of
intense efforts, Dr. Eklund was able to accumulate a unique and unmatched set of
records that provide the most comprehensive population-based data on dental treatment
ever assembled, covering 60-70% of the child population and nearly 40% of the adult
population in Michigan since 1991. As a result of this work, he is now acknowledged
as one of the best dental epidemiology methodologists in the world.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming Stephen A. Eklund professor emeritus of dental public health.
Peggy J. Foss, Ph.D., assistant professor of education in the School of
Education and director of the athletics and recreation office at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2004.
Professor Foss obtained her B.A. degree from Jamestown College in 1958, her
M.S. degree from South Dakota State University in 1960, and her Ph.D. degree in
physical education and curriculum/administration from Michigan State University in
1979. She was an instructor at the University of Michigan from 1968-70 and then
taught in public schools and directed several physical education programs throughout
the Midwest. Professor Foss joined the University of Michigan-Dearborn faculty as a
lecturer in 1980 and was promoted to instructor in 1981 and assistant professor in 1982.
In 1991, Professor Foss was appointed director of the athletics and recreation
office. In this position, she coordinated the health and physical education curriculum,
which offered a wide variety of health, physical, and recreational courses. Under her
steadfast management, the campus's athletic program grew to include women's
volleyball and basketball; men's basketball, hockey, lacrosse, and soccer; and
intramural and recreational sports. Professor Foss also invested a great deal of time and
talent to the inception, planning, and completion of the Wellness Center. Built in 1998,
this state-of-the-art health and physical exercise facility is available for use by
university students, faculty, and staff and by area residents.
Professor Foss has been a recipient of the Faculty Recognition Award and the
Distinguished Service Award, and she served on the Advisory Committee on
Recreational Sports from 1999-2001. Her service and devotion to the University and its
students is exemplary.


72




September Meeting, 2004


The Regents salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Peggy J. Foss
assistant professor emerita of education.
Carl T. Hanks, D.D.S., Ph.D., professor of dentistry in the School of Dentistry
and associate professor of pathology in the Medical School, retired from active faculty
status on June 30, 2004.
Dr. Hanks received his B.S. degree from Phillips University in 1961, his D.D.S.
degree from Washington University in 1964, and his Ph.D. degree from the State
University of New York at Buffalo in 1970. Dr. Hanks joined the University of
Michigan faculty as an assistant professor of dentistry and an instructor of pathology in
1970. He was promoted to associate professor of dentistry in 1974 and professor in
1979 and to assistant professor of pathology in 1976 and professor in 1978. From
1992-94 he served as director of research and graduate studies for the School of
Dentistry.
Dr. Hanks' recent research focused on the biocompatibility of synthetic
materials with living tissue, and his work also includes a project to archive rare and
interesting biopsy cases from the 1940s to the present for use in teaching dental students
and training future pathologists. He co-developed a "living textbook" program for a
digital laboratory for dental students, and he published four book chapters and over 80
scientific articles.
Dr. Hanks was director of the oral pathology biopsy service and served on many
School of Dentistry and University committees. He is a member of the American
Dental Association subcommittee on biological evaluation of dental materials, the U.S.
Technical Advisory Committee for the International Standards Organization, the
International and American Associations for Dental Research, and the American
Association for the Advancement of Science. He is a consultant to the Council on
Scientific Affairs of the American Dental Association and served as a reviewer for
various professional journals.
The Regents salute this distinguished health sciences educator by naming Carl
T. Hanks professor emeritus of dentistry and associate professor emeritus of pathology.
Nancy J. Hopwood, M.D., professor of pediatrics and communicable diseases in
the Medical School, retired from active faculty status on July 31, 2004.
Dr. Hopwood received her B.A. and M.D. degrees from the University of Texas in
1964 and 1968, respectively. She remained at Texas to complete her internship and
residency in pediatrics (1968-71) and to begin post-doctoral training in pediatric
endocrinology (1972-73). She completed this training at the University of Pittsburgh
Children's Hospital (1973-75) and then joined the University of Michigan faculty as an
assistant professor in 1975. She was promoted to associate professor in 1979 and
professor in 1986 and served as the director of the Division of Pediatric Endocrinology
from 1992-97.
Dr. Hopwood's research and clinical care focused on hormonal growth control and
management of childhood growth disorders. She made seminal contributions to the
understanding of the pathophysiology of these disorders, with particular emphasis on
the growth hormone/insulin-like growth factor axis, the treatment of Turners syndrome,
and the role of psychosocial factors. Her expertise in this area led to her leadership of
the State of Michigan's screening program for congenital hypothyroidism and
congenital adrenal hyperplasia. She authored over 80 peer-reviewed manuscripts,


73




September Meeting, 2004


numerous book chapters and reviews, and 100 scientific abstracts, and she presented
over 100 invited lectures.
Dr. Hopwood is renowned for her teaching of house staff and fellows and for her
erudite presentations at the weekly endocrinology conferences. She is a member of
numerous professional societies including the Society for Pediatric Research, American
Pediatric Society, and the Endocrine Society, and she is currently treasurer of the
Lawson Wilkins Pediatric Endocrine Society. She also volunteers to educate health
care staff in developing countries and has traveled extensively to health care facilities in
Asia and Africa.
The Regents' salute this distinguished clinician, teacher, researcher, and scholar
by naming Nancy J. Hopwood professor emerita of pediatrics and communicable
diseases.
Saul H. Hymans, Ph.D., professor of economics, research scientist, and director
of the Economic Outlook Conference in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Hymans received his A.B. degree from Harvard College in 1959, and his
M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of California-Berkley in 1962 and 1964,
respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor of
economics in 1964 and was promoted to associate professor in 1967, and professor in
1970. He was appointed research scientist in 1996, and from 1983-2001 he held an
additional appointment as professor of statistics. He served as chair of the Department
of Economics from 1977-80 and special assistant to the dean from 1985-96 and has
been director of the University of Michigan Economic Outlook Conference since 1977.
With a distinguished reputation in the field of econometrics, Professor Hymans is
widely known for his award-winning forecasts of the U.S. and Michigan economies,
which have been presented at the University's annual Economic Outlook Conference
since 1969. He is a member of the board and executive committee of the National
Bureau of Economic Research, and he has been the U.S. economic forecaster for the
Pacific Economic Outlook Project of the Pacific Economic Cooperations Council since
1988. Professor Hymans is the first person to have recieved the national Blue Chip
Economic Forecasting Award twice, in 1984 and in 1987.
Within the University, Professor Hymans served on numerous committes,
including the department's executive committee and graduate program committee, the
Institute for Social Research Executive Committee, the executive board of the Institute
of Labor and Industrial Relations, and the Senate Assembly. He has published many
journal articles and papers and has been a member of a U.S. scientific exchange
delegation to the former Soviet Union and a visiting scholar in Israel, Stockholm, and
Hong Kong.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Saul H. Hymans
professor emeritus of economics and research scientist emeritus.
Donald M. Levin, Ph.D., professor of sociology in the College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, retired from active faculty
status on June 30, 2004.
Professor Levin received his B.A. and M.A. degrees from Wayne State
University in 1953 and 1961, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree from the University of
Michigan in 1969. He joined the University of Michigan-Dearborn faculty as a lecturer
in 1969 and was promoted to assistant professor later that year. He was promoted to


74




September Meeting, 2004


associate professor in 1973 and professor in 1978. Professor Levin served as chair of
the behavioral sciences department from 1974-80 and again from 1983-92.
Over the years, Professor Levin held many prestigious posts. He was an
academician in residence at the American Jewish Committee in Israel in 1973 and a
visiting scholar at the University's Center for the Study of Higher Education in 1976.
In 1984 he was an associate in residence at the World Zionist Organization at Hebrew
University in Jerusalem, Israel; in 1993 he was a visiting scholar in the sociology
department at California State University in Northridge; and in 1998 he was a scholar in
residence at the Annenberg School for Communications at the University of California.
Professor Levin has served on numerous University of Michigan-Dearborn
committees and was instrumental in the development and implementation of the
Criminal Justice Studies Program.  His teaching has been inspirational and his
mentorship of students extraordinary. Professor Levin's retirement marks the departure
of an esteemed faculty member in the Department of Behavioral Sciences.
The Regents salute this dedicated and accomplished teacher and scholar by
naming Donald M. Levin professor emeritus of sociology.
Donald K. MacCallum, Ph.D., professor of cell and developmental biology in
the Medical School, retired from active faculty status on July 1, 2004, after an
outstanding career as a teacher and researcher.
A native of California, Professor MacCallum received his B.A. degree from
Pomona College in 1961 and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of
Southern California in 1964 and 1966, respectively. He served in the U.S. Army from
1966-68, was an assistant professor at George Washington University from 1967-68,
and completed postdoctoral studies at Case Western Reserve University in 1968-69. He
joined the University of Michigan faculty as assistant professor of anatomy and
assistant professor of dentistry in 1969 and was promoted to associate professor of
dentistry in 1973, associate professor of anatomy in 1975, and professor of anatomy and
cell biology in 1987.
Professor MacCallum conducted research on the structure and interaction of oral
epithelia and the epidermis with underlying supporting tissues and developed model
systems that are still in use today to permit the reformation of oral and skin epithelia
outside the body. He is an expert in the microscopic organization of tissues and organs.
Professor MacCallum also studied the cornea of the eye and developed methods for
studying how the loss of the inner cellular lining of the cornea results in blindness.
Most recently, he developed model systems that facilitated formation of the tongue
outside the body which are used to study the signaling pathways that operate during
development with special emphasis on the formation of nervous system taste pathways.
As course director for 20 years, Professor MacCallum provided crucial
leadership in maintaining the quality of the medical histology course. He developed a
computer-based teaching program  in basic histology that is widely used in
undergraduate and graduate programs at Michigan and elsewhere. All of the current
teaching faculty in cell and developmental biology have benefited from his mentorship.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Donald K. MacCallum professor emeritus of cell and developmental
biology.
Robert W. Marans, Ph.D., professor of architecture and urban planning in the A.
Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning and research professor in the


75




September Meeting, 2004


Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research, retired from active faculty status on
August 31, 2004.
Professor Marans received his B.Arch. (1957) and Ph.D. (1971) degrees from the
University of Michigan and his M.U.P. degree (1962) from Wayne State University.
Early in his career he taught at the Israel Institute of Technology, Michigan State
University, Wayne State University, and Florida State University. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty as a research associate in 1968 and was promoted to
senior study director in 1972, associate research scientist in 1973, research scientist in
1975, and senior research scientist in 1997. Professor Marans was also appointed
lecturer in urban planning in 1971 and was promoted to visiting associate professor in
1972, associate professor in 1973, and professor in 1978.
Within the college, Professor Marans served as director (1987-88) and chair
(1988-89) of the Urban, Technological, and Environmental Planning Program and chair
of the Urban and Regional Planning Program (1993-98). He served on the executive
committees of both the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning
and the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute.
A prolific and highly respected writer, Professor Marans authored six books, more
than 25 book chapters, and numerous papers in refereed journals. For the last 18 years,
he has been commissioner and chair of the Huron Clinton Metropolitan (Parks)
Authority. He serves on the boards of a number of Michigan institutions, including the
Michigan Land Use Institue and the Detroit Riverfront Conservancy. His honors
include a National Endowment for the Arts research award, a Fulbright Award, and a
Progressive Architecture research award.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Robert W. Marans
professor emeritus of architecture and urban planning and research professor emeritus.
David L. Neal, assistant professor of social work in the Medical School, retired
from active faculty status on June 30, 2004.
Professor Neal received his B.A. and M.S.W. degrees from Michigan State
University in 1962 and 1964, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan as a
clinical social worker in 1966, was promoted to chief social worker in 1968, and joined
the faculty as an instructor in the Medical School, Department of Psychiatry, in 1971.
He was promoted to assistant professor in 1973, and he served an additional
appointment as a lecturer in the School of Social Work from 1976-86 and adjunct
assistant professor from 1986-92.
In addition to serving as director of social work in the Department of Psychiatry
for over 15 years, Professor Neal was appointed associate director of the Washtenaw
Community Health Organization (WCHO) in 2002. The WCHO was created by the
Board of Regents and the Washtenaw County Board of Commissioners in January 2000
to join the University's medical and psychiatric services with the county's mental health
and substance abuse services. Professor Neal was instrumental in developing innovative
programs to integrate these systems. Known for his leadership and advocacy regarding
the rights of patients and families impacted by mental illness, Professor Neal served on
the state's Mental Health Advisory Council for many years and was chair from 1985-87.
He also chaired a state committee formed to establish a protection and advocacy program
for the mentally ill, and he chaired the administrative and program subcommittee for the
governor's mental health statute and program review commission.


76




September Meeting, 2004


Professor Neal will be remembered for his insightfulness, expertise, and
contributions to the University and to the state. In 1972 and in 1983, he was nominated
as Social Worker of the Year by the Huron Valley Unit of the National Association of
Social Workers, and in 2003 he received the Lifetime Achievement Award from the
Department of Social Work.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming David L. Neal assistant professor emeritus of social work.
Alan P. Pollard, Ph.D., head of the Slavic and East European Division, and
librarian in Graduate Library Area Programs, Graduate Library, retired from active
faculty status on August 31, 2004.
Dr. Pollard received his A.B. degree from Harvard College (1960), his M.A
(1961) and Ph.D. (1968) degrees from the University of California-Berkeley, and his
M.L.S. degree (1973) from the University of Rhode Island. From 1986-91 he held the
position of Slavic bibliographer at Princeton University, which enabled him to combine
both areas of his expertise, Slavic scholarship and academic librarianship. He joined
the University of Michigan faculty as head of the Slavic and East European Division
and librarian in the University Library in 1991.
At the University Library, Dr. Pollard not only maintained the quality of the
library's research collection, but increased the collection's size from 250,000 cataloged
volumes to 325,000. He developed new directions for the Slavic and East European
holdings and oversaw growth in the Armenian, Modem Greek, Bosnian, Central Asian,
Polish, and Czech collections. The Slavic and East European Division's collection
remains among the top five of its kind in the nation, attracting scholars worldwide.
Dr. Pollard's scholarly contributions furthered intellectual pursuits, both in
academic and library spheres. He served two terms as chair of the Association of
College and Research Libraries Slavic and East European Section and also served on
the executive board of the Bibliography and Documentation Committee of the
American Association for the Advancement of Slavic Studies. He edited USSR Facts &
Figures Annual (1988-1991) and two editions of Guide to Official Publications of
Foreign Countries, Russian Archives, and he translated and edited the first two volumes
of The Laws on the Russian Peasant Emancipation 19 February 1861. The impact of
his successful and influential career will be felt for years to come.
The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian by naming Alan P. Pollard
librarian emeritus.
David Schottenfeld, M.D., John G. Searle Professor of Epidemiology and
professor of epidemiology in the School of Public Health, and professor of internal
medicine in the Medical School, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 2004.
Dr. Schottenfeld received his A.B. degree from Hamilton College in 1952, his
M.D. degree from Comrnell University Medical College in 1956, and his M.Sc. degree
from Harvard University in 1963. He served on the faculty of Comell University
Medical College from 1963-86 and on the medical staff of Memorial Hospital in New
York City from 1963-86. Dr. Schottenfeld joined the University of Michigan faculty as
the John G. Searle Professor of Epidemiology and professor of internal medicine in
1986. He also served as chair of the epidemiology department from 1986-91 and
interim chair in 2003. He has directed the graduate summer session program in
epidemiology since 1987, and he co-directed the preventive medicine residency
program in the School of Public Health.


77




September Meeting, 2004


Dr. Schottenfeld's leadership and contributions in cancer epidemiology have set
the standard for the field. He was editor-in-chief of the definitive cancer epidemiology
textbook, Cancer Epidemiology and Prevention, and has more than 135 peer-reviewed
publications. He was one of the first to recognize the unique insights to be gained from
the study of multiple primary malignancies, and he has devoted a substantial portion of
his career to understanding the epidemiology of hormonally responsive cancers. Dr.
Schottenfeld has been dedicated to the training of epidemiologists and practitioners of
preventive  medicine  and  has provided  scientific leadership  nationally  and
internationally. His honors include the Distinguished Achievement Award from the
American Society of Preventive Oncology and the Abraham M. Lilienfeld Award from
the American College of Epidemiology. He was also recognized by his peers by being
elected president of the Society of Epidemiologic Research.
The Regents now salute this distinguished cancer epidemiologist and educator for
his dedicated service by naming David Schottenfeld professor emeritus of epidemiology
and professor emeritus of internal medicine.
Edward E. Smith, Ph.D., Arthur W. Melton Distinguished University Professor
of Psychology and professor of psychology in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, faculty associate in the Institute for Social Research, and research professor in
the Medical School, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Smith received his B.A. degree from Brooklyn College (1961) and his
Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan (1965), after which he worked at the U.S.
Public Health Service (1966-68); served on the faculty at Stanford University (1977-79);
and worked in the private sector (1979-86). He joined the University of Michigan
faculty as a professor in 1986. He was the Arthur W. Melton Collegiate Professor of
Psychology from 1996-99 and was named Arthur W. Melton Distinguished University
Professor of Psychology in 1999. He was appointed faculty associate in 1993 and has
been a research professor (formerly research scientist) in the Medical School since 1999.
He directed the Cognitive Science and Cognitive Neuroscience Program from
1994-2004.
Professor Smith has been widely recognized for his seminal work in cognitive
psychology, cognitive science, and cognitive neuroscience. He has conducted
groundbreaking research on the organization of information in memory by its categorical
membership and has also made important contributions to the understanding of
decision-making and reasoning in adults with and without brain trauma. His work in
detailing the mechanisms of working memory and executive processes has, in
combination with behavioral studies, laid out a psychological and neural architecture of
encoding, storage, and retrieval processes in working memory and uncovered executive
processing mechanisms and the role of the frontal and parietal lobes in controlling that
processing. This contributed to the understanding of deficits in memory and executive
processes accompanying damage to the frontal lobes. He is a fellow of the American
Psychological Association and the American Psychological Society and is a member of
the National Academy of Sciences.   Among his honors are the University's
Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award and the APA Distinguished Scientific
Contribution Award.
The Regents salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Edward E.
Smith the Arthur W. Melton Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of
Psychology, professor emeritus of psychology, and research professor emeritus.


78




September Meeting, 2004


Mary R. Townsend, senior associate librarian in the University Library, retired
from active faculty status on June 30, 2004, after a long and distinguished service of
thirty-one years.
A native of Columbus, Ohio, Ms. Townsend received her B.S.Ed. degree from
The Ohio State University in 1972 and her A.M.L.S. degree from the University of
Michigan in 1974. She joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant
librarian in the Public Health Library in 1974 and was promoted to associate librarian in
1977 and senior associate librarian in 1981.
As head of the Public Health Library from 1982-93, Ms. Townsend not only
provided reference services and helped to develop the collection, but she also created
and maintained a pamphlet collection and oversaw the serials collection.  From
1990-2000 she led the Information and Library Studies Library, and from 2000-04 she
was a rare book librarian in the Taubman Medical Library. Within the medical library,
Ms. Townsend expanded her knowledge of rare book practices and book conservation
and provided an enhanced level of service, including in-depth consultations with
scholars as well as public open houses and exhibitions.
Ms. Townsend's career in the University Library was marked by almost
constant change, both in the schools with which she was associated and in the services
the libraries provided. Primary among these changes was the evolution from print
resources only to the mixture of print and electronic resources prevalent today. Among
Ms. Townsend's many strengths were her keen problem-solving skills and her ability to
effectively communicate with faculty members. A life-long learner, she pursued
education throughout her career to help her meet professional and career challenges.
She was active in numerous professional associations, including the Public
Health/Health Administration Section of the Medical Library Association, the Michigan
Health Sciences Libraries Association, and the South Central Michigan Health Sciences
Library Association.
The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian and colleague by naming Mary
R. Townsend senior associate librarian emerita.
Lois M. Verbrugge, Ph.D., distinguished senior research scientist and research
professor in the Institute of Gerontology and research professor in the Center for
Population Planning in the School of Public Health, retired from active faculty status on
July 31, 2004.
Dr. Verbrugge received her B.A. degree from Stanford University (1967) and her
M.P.H. (1969), M.A. (1970), and Ph.D. (1974) degrees from the University of
Michigan. She served on the faculty of The John Hopkins University from 1974-76,
and joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1976. In
1981, she was appointed associate research scientist in the Institute of Gerontology, and
in 1983 she was appointed associate research scientist in the Center for Population
Planning; she was promoted to research scientist in both units in 1988 and distinguished
research scientist in 1992. Within the Institute of Gerontology, she was promoted to
distinguished senior research scientist in 1997. Her titles changed to research professor
in 2003 when research scientist titles were changed by the University. She was also a
faculty associate in the ISR Survey Research Center from 1977-85.
Dr. Verbrugge's research focused on the extensive impacts of disability, health
trends, and non-fatal, chronic conditions on the activities of middle-aged and older
people. Her work blended medical, environmental, and engineering perspectives in a


79




September Meeting, 2004


most effective manner, and her more than 100 publications have deeply influenced
scholarship, research design, and health policy. Her 1994 paper, "The Disablement
Process," remains among the top ten cited articles in the social sciences.
During her career, Dr. Verbrugge received numerous honors, including a Research
Career Development Award from the National Institute of Child Health and Human
Development (1982-87), a Special Emphasis Research Career Award from the National
Institute on Aging (1987-92), and the Distinguished Contribution to Women's Health
Award from the American Psychological Association in 1994.
The Regents now salute this distinguished disabilities researcher by naming Lois M.
Verbrugge distinguished senior research scientist emerita, research professor emerita in the
Institute of Gerontology, and research professor emerita in the Center for Population
Planning.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported this month.
However, Executive Vice President Slottow recognized the death in July 2004 of
Richard J. Williams, a 22-year University of Michigan employee in the Building
Services Department. Executive Vice President Slottow enumerated the unusual ties
that Mr. Williams and his family had to the University and noted that he was a role
model and leader who had a huge, positive influence on people's lives. Mr. Slottow
said that Mr. Williams' father started working at the University in the 1950s and since
then, more than 15 family members have served the University in a number of
capacities. He thanked Richard Williams and the Williams family for their dedicated,
loyal, extended service over many years, and asked family members who were present
at the meeting to stand. The family members received a round of applause. Mr. Eric
Williams thanked the meeting participants for the recognition on behalf of the family.
It was noted that the Williams family represents the embodiment of "The Michigan
Difference."
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
2004-2005 All Campus Budget Book
Executive Vice President Slottow pointed out that the 2004-2005 All Campus
Budget Book had been distributed as an enclosure with the agenda. He noted that the
General Fund budget is based on recommended state appropriations contained in the
governor's proposed budget, which has not yet been signed. If the enacted appropriations
differ from the amounts in the budget book, revised General Fund budgets will be
submitted for approval.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Yorktown Energy Partners V, L.P.)
Executive Vice President Slottow informed the Regents about a recent follow-on
energy commitment of $20 million to Yorktown Energy Partners VI, L.P.


80




September Meeting, 2004


Alternative Asset Commitment (Brookdale Investors Five, L.P., and Patron Capital,
L.P. II)
Executive Vice President Slottow informed the Regents about recent follow-on real
estate commitments of $65 million to Brookdale Investors Five, L.P., and ~30 to Patron
Capital, L.P. II.
The University of Michigan Financial Statements for the Year Ended June 30,
2004
Executive Vice President Slottow reported that the University's comprehensive
financial statements for fiscal year 2004 would be sent under separate cover and would be
submitted  for approval at the  October meeting, following  discussion  with
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the University's independent auditors.
Monthly Investment Report
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that investment results for June 2004 would
be included in the Annual Report of Investments which will be distributed for discussion
at the October 2004 meeting.
Alternative Asset Commitments
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents approved
the following alternative asset commitments from the Long Term Portfolio, all of which
are venture capital funds:
* Commitment of up to $10 million to ATA Ventures, L.P.
* Commitment of up to $10 million to MedVenture Associates V, L.P.
* Commitment of up to $10 million to Updata Partners III L.P.
* Commitment of $10 million to Hampshire Partners Fund VI
State Building Authority Financing of University of Michigan Projects
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved resolutions requesting and accepting conveyance of the following
projects, previously financed by the State Building Authority (SBA): University of
Michigan-Ann Arbor Adult General Hospital Building; University of Michigan-Ann
Arbor Engineering Center Building (Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center); University of
Michigan-Ann Arbor James B. Angell Hall; University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus
Renovations (Phase II); and University of Michigan-Flint Water Street Parking
Condominium Facility (see appendix on page 88). They also authorized the appropriate
officers to execute quitclaim deeds for the conveyance of the properties back to the
University; release of any easement and utility agreements; and any other documentation
required for the conveyance of the projects back to the University.
Ann Street Parking Structure
Executive Vice President Slottow introduced Todd Schlieman, principal from
Polshek Partnership, to review the schematic design for the Ann Street Parking Structure.
Mr. Schlieman displayed a map showing the location of the structure, which is on Ann
Street across from the Biomedical Sciences Research Building (BSRB). He showed
renderings of the exterior from different elevations and described the materials that are


81




September Meeting, 2004


being used on the exterior. He noted that the structure will hold 530 cars and is expected
to be completed and ready for use by Winter 2006.
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the schematic design for the Ann Street Parking Structure
project as presented.
Crisler Arena - Replace Underground Steam and Condensate Piping
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Crisler Arena underground steam and condensate piping
replacement project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Multiple
Buildings Bulk Oxygen System
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) Multiple Buildings Bulk Oxygen System Project as described and authorized
issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are
within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Chilled Water
Loop Replacement Phase I
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) Chilled Water Loop Replacement Phase I project as described and authorized
issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are
within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) East Ann Arbor
Ambulatory Surgery and Medical Procedure Center
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) East Ann Arbor Ambulatory Surgery and Medical Procedure Center project
for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved
budget.
Athletic Department Events Center Building Naming
On a motion by Regent Richner, seconded by Regent Brandon, and in honor of a gift
from John P. and Susan H. Junge, the Regents unanimously approved naming the
multipurpose events center to be located between Michigan Stadium and Crisler Arena the
Junge Family Champions Center.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes 7 conflict of interest items,
each of which requires 6 votes for approval. On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded
by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved each of the following items:


82




September Meeting, 2004


Approval of Payment for Ann Arbor IT Zone
The Regents approved a payment by the Office of Technology Transfer for services
provided by Ann Arbor IT Zone. Because Kenneth Nisbet, chair of the board of directors
of Ann Arbor IT Zone, is also a University of Michigan employee, this purchase falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Office
of Technology Transfer and Ann Arbor IT Zone.
2.   The service provided is placement of a student intern at a cost of $8,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Kenneth Nisbet, a University of
Michigan employee, is the chair of the board of directors of Ann Arbor IT Zone.
Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and Pipex, Inc.
The Regents approved an option agreement between the University of Michigan and
Pipex, Inc. for UM File No. 2169, "Copper lowering treatment of inflammatory and
fibrotic diseases." Because Dr. George Brewer, equity holder in Pipex, Inc., is also a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Pipex,
Inc.
2.   The technology will be used for the treatment of Wilson's Disease and inflammatory
and fibrotic diseases in humans. Pipex will pay an option fee of $7,500, and the grant
will be exclusive for 12 months. Pipex will reimburse the University of Michigan's
patent expenses incurred during the option period.
Prior to the University entering into license negotiations with Pipex, the company will
need to demonstrate: an identified and committed, experienced and capable
management team, an appropriate commercialization strategy, and a capitalization
plan indicating sufficient access to capital to enable the commercialization plan to be
executed.
The University will retain ownership of the optioned technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it for research and academic purposes. No use of University
services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is obligated under
the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. George Brewer, a University of
Michigan employee, holds equity interest in Pipex, Inc. He has waived any personal
participation in the sharing of revenue received by the University from the company.
License Agreement between        the University    of Michigan    and  m-Dimensional
Software Solutions, LLC
The Regents approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
m-Dimensional Software Solutions, LLC., to practice and commercialize the software
imaging program known as 4D-MSPECT (UM File No. 1133). Because Drs. James
Corbett and Edward Ficaro, equity holders in m-Dimensional Software Solutions LLC,
are also University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements;
1.   The parties to this agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Medical School and m-Dimensional Software Solutions, LLC.


83




September Meeting, 2004


2.   The grant is exclusive and worldwide in all fields. The University of Michigan will
receive an equity portion in the company, and the company will pay the University a
royalty as a percentage of company sales. Specific milestones must be met in order to
maintain the rights granted by the license. Milestone payments will be due upon
successful completion of milestones. The term of the agreement is for a minimum of
ten years.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it for research and academic purposes. No use of University
services or facilities is obligated under the license agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Drs. Corbett and Ficaro, University of
Michigan employees, hold equity interest in m-Dimensional Software Solutions, LLC.
They have waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the
University from the Company.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Michigan Critical
Care Consultants, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with Michigan Critical Care
Consultants, Inc., for funding of a project in the Department of Chemistry. Because Dr.
Robert Bartlett, part owner of Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc., is also a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to this agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc.
2.   The total subcontract to the University will be $190,242 for the period of May 1, 2004
through April 30, 2006. Since research agreements are often amended, the Agreement
includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope. University procedures for
these changes will be followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest
Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Robert Bartlett, a University of
Michigan employee, is part owner of Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc.
Three Subcontract Agreements between the University of Michigan and Flexsys, Inc.
The Regents approved three subcontract agreements with Flexsys, Inc., for funding
of projects in the College of Engineering. Because Dr. Sridhar Kota, co-founder,
co-owner, and president of Flexsys, Inc., is also a University of Michigan employee, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to these agreements are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Flexsys, Inc.
2.   The terms of the Agreements conform to University policy. The periods of
performance and funding authorizations for the testing activities in support of these
three projects are: 39 months at a cost of $150,000, 21 months at a cost of $22,650,
and 21 months at a cost of $65,539. The Agreements include provisions for extensions
of the time period and scope of work.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Sridhar Kota, a University of
Michigan employee, is co-founder, co-owner, and president of Flexsys, Inc.
Purchase Order Agreement between the University of Michigan and Michigan
Aerospace Corporation
The Regents approved a purchase order from the Michigan Aerospace Corporation
to generate a conceptual design for a stem-ramp mount for unmanned marine vehicles.
Because Dr. Lennard Fisk, stockholder in Michigan Aerospace Corporation, is also a


84




September Meeting, 2004


University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to this agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Michigan Aerospace Corporation.
2.   The terms of the Agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
is expected to be six months, and the amount payable to the University is expected to
be $10,000. Standard purchase order terms and conditions will apply. Since research
agreements are often amended, the purchase order may include provisions for changes
in time, amount, and scope. University of Michigan procedures for approval of these
changes will be followed, and additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee
will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Lennard Fisk, a University of
Michigan employee, is a stockholder in the Michigan Aerospace Corporation.
Approval to Enter an Agreement to Host the Core Technology Alliance
The Regents approved an agreement with the Core Technology Alliance to permit
the company to use University of Michigan facilities and administrative and financial
systems as necessary to perform its activities. Because Fawwaz T. Ulaby, an officer of the
corporation and a member of the board of directors of the Core Technology Alliance, is
also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and the
Core Technology Alliance.
2.   The duration of the agreement is from July 1, 2004 through June 30, 2009. Fawwaz T.
Ulaby will serve as a director and vice president of the corporation on a part-time,
uncompensated basis. Roberta J. Proft, a full-time University of Michigan employee,
will serve as the business manager for the corporation. The University may elect to
purchase services from CTA and pay member fees in its role as a university member
of the CTA. The University will assign employees and provide facilities and
administrative support necessary for the CTA to perform its activities, including
office, storage, and other space; equipment; finance and accounting; research and
human resources administration; and purchasing. In exchange, CTA will reimburse
expenses and facilitate the purchase of services provided by the University. CTA will
provide funding for the salary of Ms. Proft and her secretary as well as the operating
expenses of the corporation. CTA will pay the University rent of $20 per square foot
per year plus $6.18 per square foot per year for utilities for the period of July 1, 2004
to June 30, 2005. Costs will increase by the greater of 2.5% or the Consumer Price
Index (CPI) annually on July 1, 2005; July 1, 2006; July 1, 2007; and July 1, 2008.
3.   There is no pecuniary interest as Fawwaz T. Ulaby, a University of Michigan
employee, will receive no compensation for his service as a director and officer of the
corporation.
Joan and Sanford Weill Hall Project
President Coleman noted that in June 2004 the Joan and Sanford Weill Hall Project
in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy had been approved for bids and awarding of
construction contracts, providing that bids were within the approved budget. She reported
that the University had received two pre-bid cost estimates that were very similar.
However, all of the six bids received from construction companies for the project came in
higher than anticipated; the low bid was provided by Clark Construction Company.
To complete the project as originally presented, therefore, a request is being made
for approval of revising the project budget from $32 million to $35 million. Regent


85




September Meeting, 2004


McGowan moved approval of the revised budget for the Joan and Sanford Weill Hall
Project, and Regent Deitch seconded the motion.
Regent Brandon commented that from his perspective as chair of the Finance,
Audit and Investment (FAI) Committee, it is not a good precedent for the board to
approve a project of this scope and scale and find out later that cost estimates were
incorrect. He said that due to the critical nature of this project and to a number of
factors involved, he would make an exception and vote in favor of the revised budget.
However, he suggested that the board and FAI Committee will need to examine
carefully the process being used to arrive at budgets for major projects in an effort to
prevent this situation from reoccurring.
Regent Richner stated that due to the importance of this project, he would support
the revised budget. However, he expressed his hope that the University would continue
to look for ways to cut costs and make due with the original budget.
Regent Maynard agreed and noted that she will support the motion but hopes that
the University can learn from this experience how a project could cost more than
originally estimated.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project
Vice President Ulaby noted that the Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project was
originally established as a memorial to people who died during World War II, for the
purpose of examining peaceful uses of atomic energy. Since then, interest in nuclear
energy has changed, and the Ford Nuclear Reactor that was part of the project was
deactivated in July 2003. The current proposal is to expand the scope of the project to
include research on the development of all forms of energy.
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the expanded scope of the Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project,
as described in the Regents Communication.
Correction to Degree Program Name
Chancellor Little commented that the name of the new degree program, "Master of
Arts in Public Policy," approved by the Board in July 2004, was erroneous. The correct
name of the degree program is "Master of Public Policy."
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved correcting the name of the University of Michigan-Dearborn
degree program, "Master of Arts in Public Policy," to "Master of Public Policy."
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: Jim Mogensen, citizen, on the town-gown relationship; Amy Keller, student
and president of the Residence Hall Association, on the Residential Life Initiative; and
David Boyle, alumnus, on not business as usual.


86




September Meeting, 2004


There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:15 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for October 21, 2004.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


87




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 2004 - APPENDIX
A RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
REQUESTING CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY AND
RELEASE OF EASEMENT AND UTILITY AGREEMENT FOR THE ADULT
GENERAL HOSPITAL BUILDING, ACCEPTANCE OF SAME AND ACCEPTING
OBLIGATIONS FOR THE FACILITIES
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan (the
"Educational Institution") requesting and approving the conveyance of property, and
release of easement and utility agreement and to provide matters relating thereto.
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority (the "Authority"), a statutory body
corporate created under provisions of 1964 PA 183, as amended, is authorized to
acquire, construct, furnish, equip, own, improve, enlarge, operate, mortgage and
maintain buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities and sites therefore
for use by the State or any of its agencies including institutions of higher education
created pursuant to Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of
1963; and
WHEREAS, the Educational Institution has been created and is maintained
pursuant to Sections 4 and 5 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has previously acquired the Adult General Hospital
Building and the site upon which it was constructed (the Adult General Hospital
Building and the site together are the "Facilities") and the Authority leased the
Facilities to the Educational Institution and the State of Michigan (the "State") pursuant
to a lease dated as of December 1, 1982 (the "Lease"); and
WHEREAS, the Authority and the Educational Institution entered into an
Easement and Utility Agreement dated December 1, 1982; and
WHEREAS, under the terms of the Lease, the Authority agreed to convey title
to the Facilities to the Educational Institution upon request by the Educational
Institution after the Bonds which financed the Facilities (the "Bonds" as defined in the
Lease) and any additional bonds or other obligations as provided in the Lease are paid
in full or provision for the payment thereof is made as provided in the Lease for
consideration of one ($1.00) Dollar and the assumption by the Educational Institution
of all monetary obligations and legal responsibilities for the operation and maintenance
of the Facilities; and
WHEREAS, the Bonds have been paid in full and all conditions established
by the Lease as conditions precedent to conveyance of title to the Facilities by the
Authority to the Educational Institution have occurred; and
WHEREAS, the purposes of the Easement and Utility Agreement have been
accomplished;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED            BY  THE EDUCATIONAL
INSTITUTION THAT:
1. The Educational Institution hereby requests that the Authority convey title
to the Facilities to the Educational Institution and release the Easement and Utility
Agreement.
2. The consideration for the conveyance of the Facilities shall be one ($1.00)
Dollar and the assumption by the Educational Institution of all monetary obligations
and legal responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of the Facilities.
3. The conveyance by Quitclaim Deed of the Facilities and the Release of
Easement and Utility Agreement pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth above is


88




SepteberI Meeting,204- Apendix


approved and each of the President and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of the Educational Institution is authorized and directed to execute any
documents to accomplish the conveyance of the Facilities and the release of the
Easement and Utility Agreement in such form as may be requested by the Authority
and approved by counsel for the Educational Institution.
4. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with this
resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, repealed.
5. This resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.
A RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
REQUESTING CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY FOR THE
ENGINEERING CENTER BUILDING, ACCEPTANCE OF SAME AND
ACCEPTING OBLIGATIONS OF THE FACILITIES
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan (the
"Educational Institution"') requesting and approving the conveyance of property and to
provide matters relating thereto.
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority (the "Authority"), a statutory body
corporate created under provisions of 1964 PA 183, as amended, is authorized to
acquire, construct, furnish, equip, own, improve, enlarge, operate, mortgage and
maintain buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities and sites therefore
for use by the State or any of its agencies including institutions of higher education
created pursuant to Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of
1963; and
WHEREAS, the Educational Institution has been created and is maintained
pursuant to Sections 4 and 5 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has previously acquired the Engineering Center
Building and the site upon which it was constructed (the Engineering Center Building
and the site together are the "Facilities") and the Authority leased the Facilities to the
Educational Institution and the State of Michigan (the "State") pursuant to a lease dated
as of March 1, 1996 (the "Lease"); and
WHEREAS, under the terms of the Lease, the Authority agreed to convey title
to the Facilities to the Educational Institution upon request by the Educational
Institution after the Bonds which financed the Facilities (the "Bonds" as defined in the
Lease) and any additional bonds or other obligations as provided in the Lease are paid
in full or provision for the payment thereof is made as provided in the Lease for
consideration of one ($1.00) Dollar and the assumption by the Educational Institution
of all monetary obligations and legal responsibilities for the operation and maintenance
of the Facilities; and
WHEREAS, the Bonds have been paid in full and all conditions established
by the Lease as conditions precedent to conveyance of title to the Facilities by the
Authority to the Educational Institution have occurred; and


89




September Meeting, 2004 - Appendix


3. The conveyance by Quitclaim Deed of the Facilities pursuant to the terms
and conditions set forth above is approved and each of the President and Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution is authorized
and directed to execute any documents to accomplish the conveyance of the Facilities
in such form as may be requested by the Authority and approved by counsel for the
Educational Institution.
4. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with this
resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, repealed.
5. This resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.
A RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
REQUESTING CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY FOR THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN-FLINT WATER STREET PARKING
CONDOMINIUM FACILITY, ACCEPTANCE OF SAME AND ACCEPTING
OBLIGATIONS OF THE FACILITIES
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan (the
"Educational Institution") requesting and approving the conveyance of property and to
provide matters relating thereto.
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority (the "Authority"), a statutory body
corporate created under provisions of 1964 PA 183, as amended, is authorized to
acquire, construct, furnish, equip, own, improve, enlarge, operate, mortgage and
maintain buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities and sites therefore
for use by the State or any of its agencies including institutions of higher education
created pursuant to Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of
1963; and
WHEREAS, the Educational Institution has been created and is maintained
pursuant to Sections 4 and 5 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has previously acquired the University of
Michigan-Flint Water Street Parking Condominium Facility and the site upon which it
was constructed (the University of Michigan-Flint Water Street Parking Condominium
Facility and the site together are the "Facilities") and the Authority leased the Facilities
to the Educational Institution and the State of Michigan (the "State") pursuant to a lease
dated as of August 1, 1992 (the "Lease"); and
WHEREAS, under the terms of the Lease, the Authority agreed to convey title
to the Facilities to the Educational Institution upon request by the Educational
Institution after the Bonds which financed the Facilities (the "Bonds" as defined in the
Lease) and any additional bonds or other obligations as provided in the Lease are paid
in full or provision for the payment thereof is made as provided in the Lease for
consideration of one ($1.00) Dollar and the assumption by the Educational Institution
of all monetary obligations and legal responsibilities for the operation and maintenance
of the Facilities; and
WHEREAS, the Bonds have been paid in full and all conditions established
by the Lease as conditions precedent to conveyance of title to the Facilities by the
Authority to the Educational Institution have occurred; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED           BY  THE EDUCATIONAL
INSTITUTION THAT:
1. The Educational Institution hereby requests that the Authority convey title
to the Facilities to the Educational Institution.


90




September Meeting, 2004 - Appendix


2. The consideration for the conveyance of the Facilities shall be one ($1.00)
Dollar and the assumption by the Educational Institution of all monetary obligations
and legal responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of the Facilities.
3. The conveyance by Quitclaim Deed of the Facilities pursuant to the terms
and conditions set forth above is approved and each of the President and Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution is authorized
and directed to execute any documents to accomplish the conveyance of the Facilities
in such form as may be requested by the Authority and approved by counsel for the
Educational Institution.
4. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with this
resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, repealed.
5. This resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.
A RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
REQUESTING CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY FOR THE
DEARBORN CAMPUS RENOVATIONS (PHASE II), ACCEPTANCE OF
SAME AND ACCEPTING OBLIGATIONS FOR THE FACILITIES
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan (the
"Educational Institution") requesting and approving the conveyance of property and to
provide matters relating thereto.
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority (the "Authority"), a statutory body
corporate created under provisions of 1964 PA 183, as amended, is authorized to
acquire, construct, furnish, equip, own, improve, enlarge, operate, mortgage and
maintain buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities and sites therefore
for use by the State or any of its agencies including institutions of higher education
created pursuant to Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of
1963; and
WHEREAS, the Educational Institution has been created and is maintained
pursuant to Sections 4 and 5 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has previously acquired the Dearborn Campus
Renovations (Phase II) and the site upon which it was constructed (the Dearborn
Campus Renovations and the site together are the "Facilities") and the Authority leased
the Facilities to the Educational Institution and the State of Michigan (the "State")
pursuant to a lease dated as of February 1, 1997 (the "Lease"); and
WHEREAS, under the terms of the Lease, the Authority agreed to convey title
to the Facilities to the Educational Institution upon request by the Educational
Institution after the Bonds which financed the Facilities (the "Bonds" as defined in the
Lease) and any additional bonds or other obligations as provided in the Lease are paid
in full or provision for the payment thereof is made as provided in the Lease for
consideration of one ($1.00) Dollar and the assumption by the Educational Institution
of all monetary obligations and legal responsibilities for the operation and maintenance
of the Facilities; and
WHEREAS, the Bonds have been paid in full and all conditions established
by the Lease as conditions precedent to conveyance of title to the Facilities by the
Authority to the Educational Institution have occurred; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE EDUCATIONAL
INSTITUTION THAT:
1. The Educational Institution hereby requests that the Authority convey title
to the Facilities to the Educational Institution.


91




September Meeting, 2004 - Appendix


2. The consideration for the conveyance of the Facilities shall be one ($1.00)
Dollar and the assumption by the Educational Institution of all monetary obligations
and legal responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of the Facilities.
3. The conveyance by Quitclaim Deed of the Facilities pursuant to the terms
and conditions set forth above is approved and each of the President and Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution is authorized
and directed to execute any documents to accomplish the conveyance of the Facilities
in such form as may be requested by the Authority and approved by counsel for the
Educational Institution.
4. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with this
resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, repealed.
5. This resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.
A RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
REQUESTING CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY FOR THE JAMES B.
ANGELL HALL, ACCEPTANCE OF SAME AND ACCEPTING OBLIGATIONS OF
THE FACILITIES
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan (the
"Educational Institution") requesting and approving the conveyance of property and to
provide matters relating thereto.
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority (the "Authority"), a statutory body
corporate created under provisions of 1964 PA 183, as amended, is authorized to
acquire, construct, furnish, equip, own, improve, enlarge, operate, mortgage and
maintain buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities and sites therefore
for use by the State or any of its agencies including institutions of higher education
created pursuant to Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of
1963; and
WHEREAS, the Educational Institution has been created and is maintained
pursuant to Sections 4 and 5 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has previously acquired the James B. Angell Hall
and the site upon which it was constructed (the James B. Angell Hall and the site
together are the "Facilities") and the Authority leased the Facilities to the Educational
Institution and the State of Michigan (the "State") pursuant to a lease dated as of
February 1, 1997 (the "Lease"); and
WHEREAS, under the terms of the Lease, the Authority agreed to convey title
to the Facilities to the Educational Institution upon request by the Educational
Institution after the Bonds which financed the Facilities (the "Bonds" as defined in the
Lease) and any additional bonds or other obligations as provided in the Lease are paid
in full or provision for the payment thereof is made as provided in the Lease for
consideration of one ($1.00) Dollar and the assumption by the Educational Institution
of all monetary obligations and legal responsibilities for the operation and maintenance
of the Facilities; and
WHEREAS, the Bonds have been paid in full and all conditions established
by the Lease as conditions precedent to conveyance of title to the Facilities by the
Authority to the Educational Institution have occurred;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE EDUCATIONAL
INSTITUTION THAT:
1. The Educational Institution hereby requests that the Authority convey title
to the Facilities to the Educational Institution.


92




September Meeting, 2004 - Appendix


2. The consideration for the conveyance of the Facilities shall be one ($1.00)
Dollar and the assumption by the Educational Institution of all monetary obligations
and legal responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of the Facilities.
3. The conveyance by Quitclaim Deed of the Facilities pursuant to the terms
and conditions set forth above is approved and each of the President and Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution is authorized
and directed to execute any documents to accomplish the conveyance of the Facilities
in such form as may be requested by the Authority and approved by counsel for the
Educational Institution.
4. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with this
resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, repealed.
5. This resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.


93




SeptemberIMeeting, 204-Apendix


94




OCTOBER MEETING, 2004


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, October 21, 2004
The Regents convened at 2:15 p.m. in the Michigan Rooms, University Center, on
the campus of the University of Michigan-Flint. Present were President Coleman and
Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner, Taylor, and White.
Also present were Provost Courant, Executive Vice President Kelch, Vice President
Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice President May, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice
President Slottow, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and
Vice President Wilbanks.
Performance
Chancellor Mestas introduced a special performance of the University of
Michigan-Flint Wind Symphony, conducted by Robert G. Southard.    The first
performance was "Lincoln Portrait," by Aaron Copland, narrated by Regent Olivia
Maynard, and the second performance was "Block 'M' March," by Jerry Bilik.
Call to Order and Opening Remarks
President Coleman called the meeting to order at 2:40 p.m. She thanked Chancellor
Mestas for arranging the performance and commented on the hospitality of the campus
and the community. She noted that she had attended an event last week on campus which
marked the establishment of a new award for community service known as "The Libby,"
in honor of Regent Maynard. The ceremony was notable for its recognition of how
integral the University of Michigan-Flint is to Flint's future.
President Coleman noted that there were residence hall update and renovation
projects on the agenda that are part of the major residential life renewal initiative on the
Ann Arbor campus. She commented that the Frieze Building site had been selected as
the location for a new residence hall that would be co-located and interacting closely
with new academic space.
President Coleman noted that a celebration in honor of the 40th anniversary of the
Center for the Education of Women (CEW) had just been held, and she called on
Regent McGowan. Regent McGowan pointed out that CEW had been one of the
"parents" of the Flint Center for Women and noted that Regent Maynard had attended
the celebration held the previous weekend.
Regent Maynard commented that at the celebration she had read letters in honor of
the 40th anniversary from both the Regents and President Coleman. To her, the most
remarkable testament was that in response to the question of how many people in the
room had been helped by CEW, almost everyone stood up. This speaks to the value of
CEW, not only to Ann Arbor and the other UM campuses, but around the country.


95




October Meeting, 2004


Compensation and Personnel Committee. Regent Maynard reported that the
committee had conducted an evaluation of President Coleman's performance during the
summer. She had received a solid evaluation, and she will be working with the committee
during the year to ensure that her goals and visions will come to fruition.
Regent Maynard noted that the committee had approved a proposed salary
increase for President Coleman. She emphasized that the amount of the recommended
increase would be independent of the evaluation, as prior to the evaluation President
Coleman had requested that she receive no more than a two percent raise as a
commitment to fiscal responsibility. For that reason, the committee is recommending to
the full board only a two percent raise.
Regent Maynard reported that the remainder of the committee meeting was spent
discussing proposed changes to the committee bylaw and charter.
President's Salary. Regent McGowan moved that President Coleman's salary be
increased by two percent, effective September 1, 2004. Regent Taylor seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Finance, Audit, and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning and that both Regent White and Regent Taylor had
been present. The committee reviewed the most recent draft of the proposed revised
charter, which is almost complete.
Annual Report of Investments. The committee also received the Annual Report
of Investments, presented by Erik Lundberg, chief investment officer. Mr. Lundberg
reported that as of June 30, 2004, total endowment funds equaled nearly $4.2 billion,
and the University Investment Pool was just over $1.5 billion. Combined with the
University's other assets (Veritas, M-Care and subsidiaries, and others), the
University's financial assets total just over $6 billion. Regent Brandon reported that
from 2003 to 2004 the endowment had increased by $700 million. Compared to its
one-year benchmark, the portfolio achieved a gain of 20.7%, exceeding the average
benchmark performance by 4.6%. Compared with the three-year benchmark, the
portfolio outperformed it by 3.8%, and compared with the five-year benchmark, the
portfolio achieved a 5.8% better performance.
Regent Brandon reported that the University Investment Pool, consisting of shorter
term funds, doubled the industry benchmark for one year and also bettered the
three-year and five-year benchmarks. He praised Mr. Lundberg and his colleagues for
"a truly outstanding performance." Mr. Lundberg responded that the work is the result
of a team effort, involving individuals in a number of offices across the University.
Regent Brandon reported that the committee had also met with Laura Patterson,
associate vice president for administrative services, and Paul Howell, chief information
technology security officer, regarding information technology security and disaster
recovery.
The committee was also updated on internal audits, welcoming newly appointed
executive director of internal audits Carol Sennef along with interim executive director
Fred White. The auditors assured the committee that all interactions with University


96




October IMeeting, 2004


administration were open and transparent and there is a high level of cooperation. The
last update was in the area of health benefits initiatives, from Laurita Thomas, associate
vice president and chief human resource officer, and Tim Wood, director of benefits.
The Regents then turned to the regular agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the meeting
of September 23, 2004.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Plant Extension Report
and the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report. Regarding the former, he
announced that the Museum of Art addition had received a project award from the New
York chapter of the American Institute of Architects, one of only four such awards
given world-wide this year.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report. Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of projects
established, September 30, 2004.
University of M ichigan Health System.    Executive Vice President Kelch
reported that M-Care had undergone its recertification review with exceptional results.
He also announced that three University faculty members had been elected into the
Institute of Medicine.
Division of Student Affairs. No additional report was submitted.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little announced that enrollment
for Fall 2004 was down somewhat from that of Fall 2003. An analysis of the areas
where enrollment had decreased has been done, and recruiting and marketing efforts are
being enhanced to improve the situation.
University of Michigan-Flint.  Chancellor Mestas introduced the following
individuals who had recently been appointed to their positions: Douglas Moon, dean of
the School of Management; Kimberly Buster Williams, director of admissions; and
Mary Ann Gregor, director of the Urban Health and Wellness Center.
Michigan Student Assembly Repiort.     Jason Mironov, president of MSA,
reported on recent and upcoming activities on the Ann Arbor campus. He noted that
10,000 new voters had been registered by the Voice Your Vote commission. Christina
Cecchin, president of the University of Michigan-Flint student government, welcomed
the Regents to the campus and described some of the activities of the Flint student
government.
Voluntary Support. Vice President May submitted the Report on Voluntary
Support for September, 2004, and announced that the capital campaign has just passed
the milestone of $1.5 billion, thereby achieving 61% of its goal so far.
Aisin World Corporation of America, Plymouth
for biomredical research in the College oft Engineering...................6..O...............   $60,0O00
Americ an Can cer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research and other support for the Medical School and
the College of Literature, Science, nd the Arts...................8............................... 88,612


97




Ar-"&
October Meeting, 2004


America n Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research and other support in the Division of Kinesiology and the Medical School........ 306,365
American Founda tion for Pharmaceutical Education., Roc'kville, Maryland
for scholarships in the College of Pharmacy................................................ 12,000
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for the Keller Discretionary Research Fund in the Medical School and
for support of the 2004 Amgen Young Investigator's Award in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................~... 60000
Ann Arbor Track Club, Ann Arbor
for the Lloyd and Laurie Carr Endowment Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.............. 13,598
Anonymous Donor
730 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Faculty Leadership Preservation Endowment Fund in the University Library................ 25,023
Arbitron, Inc., Columbia, Maryland
for the Arbitron Inc. Fellows Fund in Survey Methodology in
the Institute for Social Research...................................................... 26,000
Arthritis -Founda tion, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 40,583
Ann Edmunds Avery, Grand Rapids
211 shares of Exxon Mobil common stock
for the Charles W. Edmunds Charitable Remainder Unitmust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the Charles W. Edmunds Fund for Gra duate Fellowships in Pha rmacology in
the Medical School................................................................ 10,011
Aver Dennison, Mount Prospect, Illinois
for support in the Transportation Research Institute........................................ 15,000
Sue Schrier Bancroft, Argyle, Texas
for the Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Sc'hool of -Music................................... 10,000
Barbara Baugh, San Antonio, Texas
for scholarships in the School of Music................................................. 12,000
Carlos and Gloria Wille Bell Trust
-for the Gloria W. and Ca rlos R. Bell Trust Sc'holarship Funds in
the College of Engineering and in the College of Literature, Scienc'e, and the Arts................ 250,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................... 52,500
Berlex, Inc., Montville, Newv Jersey
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 15,000
R. H. Bluestein & Company, Birmingham
for the Trading Floor and Resea rch Facility Fund in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................................................ 10,000
Boeing Company, Seattle, Wa shington
for emp loyee matching gifts......................................................... 24,757
Boeing Defense & Space Group, Seattle, Washington
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 86,500
Seth Bonder Tmust
for the Seth Bonder Endowed Research Fund in the Medical School...........................10,0M00
Maiy A. Branch Trust
for the Judson B. Bra nch Scholarship Fund at the Universit of Michigan...................... 567,438
William K. Brehm, McLean, Virginia
for the William K. Brehm Undergraduate Scholarship Fund at
the Universit of Michiga n......................................................... 13 1,250
John T. Buck, Farmington
1,725 units of Putnam International1 Equity Fund
for the Golf Hole Endowment Fund in the Department of Athletics............................ 36,01 8
Kenneth A. Buckfire, New York, New York
for the Kenneth A. BucAfire Library Fund in support of
A-T_-1-*--TheJdac *LbaIn _.-_-TThe Universi -Ty LIbrr-....................1,0


98




O~ctober Meeeting, 20044


for the Sanford and Gail Cohen Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..................................... 24,700
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for the Career Learning for Achieving Scholastic Success Program at
the University of Michigan-Flint...................................................... 11,161
Conlin Travel, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Norman W. Thompson Fellowship in Endocrine Surgery in the Medical School and
for the University Alumni Association..................................................... 47,000
Conrad Charitable Foundation, Northville
for scholarships at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................... 15,000
Thomas M. Cooley Law School, Lansing
for W FU M...................................................................... 17,000
DaimlerChrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for the Associates Program in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business......................... 16,000
Dance Marathon at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for support in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital......................................... 117,106
Davidson Living Trust
1,064 shares of PMC Sierra, Inc., common stock
for support in the Law School................................................... 10,087
Detroit Red Wing Alumni Association, Inc., West Bloomfield
for research and other support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and
the University Hospitals............................................................ 10,000
Detroit Tigers, Inc., Detroit
for support in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital.......................................... 10,000
Richard and Helen DeVos Foundation, Grand Rapids
for support in the University Hospitals............................................... 10,000
Division of Medicinal Chemistry American Chemical Society, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the College of Pharmacy................................................ 10,000
Evangeline L. Dumesnil Trust
for the Maurice H. and Evangeline L. Dumesnil Scholarship Fund in the School of Music.......... 79,338
Robert S. Elgin, North Oaks, Minnesota
2,485 shares of St. Jude Medical, Inc., common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics.......................................... 178,572
Ellison Medical Foundation, Redwood City, California
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 50,000
Joan E. Farrell, Ann Arbor
for the Joan E. Farrell Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Division of Kinesiology and
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens and Nichols Arboretum.................................. 15,100
Max M. and Marjorie S. Fisher Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for support of Near Eastern studies in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 32,500
Helen S. Fitch, Western Springs, Illinois
2,255 shares of Charter One Financial common stock
for the Helen S. Fitch Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Law School..............................................................100,201
Flint Ink Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the Matzger Research Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 40,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Rouge River Gateway Partnership at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................. 10,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Family Foundation, Troy
for the MBS Israel Projects Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..................... 12,500
GE Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for the Special Engineering Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering...................... 12,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering and
for the Grace Hopper Project for Women in Science and Engineering.......................... 25,000
GLS Memorial Fund, New York, New York
for the Richard's, Polatsch and Weingard Memorial Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 150,000
Guidant Foundation, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for fellowships in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies....................... 25,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Center of Excellence in Geriatrics in the Medical School............................  28,256
LaRue Tone Hosmer, Ann Arbor
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
for WUOM....................................................................  10,200


99




Eu-Phang and Chih H. Hsu Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for the Eu-Phang and Chih H. Hsu Endowment Fund in the College of Pharmacy................. 10,000
James B. Hudak, Orinda, California
2,000 shares of UnitedHealth Group, Inc., common stock
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy........................... 138,760
Donald L. Hunting Trust
for the Donald and Florence Hunting Student Loan Fund at the University of Michigan............. 21,319
David L. Huntoon, Ann Arbor
for the Wendy Stalo Huntoon Scholarship Fund in the School of Education...................... 10,000
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for biomedical research in the College of Engineering...................................... 40,000
Instrumentation Laboratory, Lexington, Massachusetts
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 15,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for research in the College of Engineering and
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn.............................................  52,000
Michael J. Jandernoa, Grand Rapids
2,490 shares of Perrigo Company common stock and a cash gift
for the UMBS Innovations Initiative Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
for the University of Michigan Club of Grand Rapids Academic Scholarship Fund................ 52,500
JDW, II Capital Limited Partnership, Naples, Florida
for the Joseph and Judy Williamson Endowed Football Scholarship and
the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics................................... 100,000
Hal B. Jennings, Jr., San Antonio, Texas
for the Class of 1941 Medical Endowment Fund in the Medical School.......................... 10,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School and the School of Public Health............................. 269,021
Thomas C. Jones, Ann Arbor
5,000 shares of Cigna Corporation common stock
for the Jane M. and Chester R. Jones Scholarship Fund in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................................................ 346,975
Max Kade Foundation, New York, New York
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 18,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the Schools of Education and Social Work................................. 116,682
Stephen Kemp, Whitmore Lake
for the Robert and Evelyn Kemp Fund in the College of Engineering............................ 10,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for support in the University Hospitals............................................. 14,852
Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Livingston Award for Young Journalists in
the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program............................................... 40,625
Lockheed Martin Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for scholarships and research in the College of Engineering................................... 32,500
Walter Lorenz Surgical, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida
for research in the School of Dentistry................................................. 30,000
Dee and Fred Lyons Foundation Fund of the Greater Kansas City Community Foundation,
Kansas City, Missouri
for the Fred and Dee Lyons Leadership Scholars Program in the College of Pharmacy.............. 62,500
Magma Design Automation, Inc., Santa Clara, California
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 25,000
Richard and Jane Manoogian Foundation, Taylor
for the Kellogg Eye Center Building Fund................................................ 25,000
Natalie Matovinovic, Ann Arbor
for support in the Matthaei Botanical Gardens and the Nichols Arboretum,
for the Josip Matovinovic, M. D. Endowed Clinical Medicine Fellowship in the Medical School, and
for the Nicolaus Copernicus College Professor Endowment Fund and
the Southeast European Studies Endowment Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................... 26,245
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
12,000 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Kelsey Museum Expansion Project............................................. 520,260
Merck Company Foundation, Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for support in the School of Public Health.............................................. 35,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for support in the College of Engineering and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............ 40,100


100




O~ctober Meeeting, 20044


Jerry D. Mills, Bloomfield Hills
5,500 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Jerry D. Mills Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Midge and Jerry Mills Endowed Scholarship Fund in the College of Pharmacy................ 201,522
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
2,701 shares of BP PLC common stock and a cash gift
for the Department of Athletics and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................... 157,537
Munn Foundation, Inc., Steamboat Springs, Colorado
for the University of Michigan Children's Cancer Fund in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................................   135,000
Taisuke Murotani, Tokyo, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering............................................. 20,000
Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, Tucson, Arizona
for research  in  the M edical School...................................................... 103,780
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................................  48,343
National Public Broadcasting, New York, New York
for WUOM........................................................... 10,922
Perrigo Company Foundation, Allegan
for the Perrigo Summer Fellows Program Endowed Fund in the Life Sciences Institute............. 200,000
Walter Crocker Pew, III Estate
for the Class of 1974 Endowed Scholarship Fund in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................................  100,000
Pfizer Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts.......................................................... 23,785
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for scholarships and other support in the University Hospitals and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................... 45,000
Mervin Pregulman, Chattanooga, Tennessee
for support in the Department of Athletics............................................ 25,000
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for employee matching gifts................................................ 40,022
Mitchell and Shirley Raskin Family Trust
for the Mitchell and Shirley Raskin Endowed Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........................................570,922
Margaret Ann Riecker, Midland
2,317 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy........................... 97,928
Roche Laboratories, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School................................................  10,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 33,000
Thomas Safran and Associates, Los Angeles, California
for the Thomas Safran Family Endowment Fund at the University of Michigan.................... 25,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................... 30,502
Irene Seamans Trust
for support in the College of Engineering................................................ 45,913
Peter 0. Shinever Estate
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,000
Mary E. Snapp, Redmond, Washington
for support in the Law School.................................................... 20,000
Darryl L. Snider, Rolling Hills, California
200 shares of eBay, Inc., common stock
for the Darryl and Ginny Snider Football Scholarship Fund in
the Department ofAthletics........................................................ 18,464
Stamps Family Charitable Foundation, Inc., Miami, Florida
for the Penny Stamps Program in the School of Art and Design........................ 500,000
Steelcase Foundation, Grand Rapids
for research in the Division of Kinesiology............................................. 50,000
Stevens, Inc., Grand Rapids
for W UOM...............................................................  10,080
Sandra L. Sully, Cary, North Carolina
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............................... 15,000
Taubman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning................. 5,000,000


101




O~ctober Meeeting, 20044


Lorna L. Thomas, Detroit
for the Lorna L. Thomas, MD Endowed Scholarship and
the Fitzbutler Jones Society Scholarship Fund in the Medical School............................ 20,175
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 20,275
Joseph Van Buskirk Estate
for the Building Fund in the Law School................................................. 27,483
Stanley L. Vihtelic Trust
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.............................  23,747
Susan S. Wagstaff Trust
for support in the School of Art and Design........................................ 10,000
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.............................. 125,000
Janine L. Johnson Weins, Lebanon, New Hampshire
for the Janine Johnson-Weins Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of
the Janine Johnson Weins Endowed Professorship Fund in the College of Engineering.......... 1,921,936
Richard G. and Billie Westerman Charitable Remainder Trust
for the Richard G. Westerman Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Law School..................... 82,942
Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for scholarships in the College of Engineering........................................... 130,000
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for the Biomedical Engineering Building Fund and
other support in the College of Engineering........................................... 3,046,904
John H. Wilde, Greenwood, South Carolina
for the John H. Wilde Endowment Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 10,000
World Heritage Foundation, Trenton
for engineering support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................ 50,000
Zimmer Dental, Inc., Carlsbad, California
for research in the School of Dentistry.................................................. 15,000
Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:


Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
American Federation for Aging, New York, New
York
Ann Arbor Branch Women's National Farm and
Garden Association, Ann Arbor
Doris Applebaum, Oak Park
Barton-Malow Company Foundation, Southfield
Ruth Z. Campbell, Ann Arbor
Vivian L. Carpenter, Detroit
Clark Hill P.L.C., Detroit
Malcolm H. Cox, Ann Arbor
Clifford L. Craig, Ann Arbor
Peter and Julie Cummings Philanthropic Fund of
the Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit,
Bloomfield Hills
Deloitte & Touche, Detroit
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
Deutsche Bank, New York, New York
John A. Feldenzer, Roanoke, Virginia
Alma L. Ford, Ann Arbor
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
Margaret E. Grigsby, Washington, D. C.
Hobby Family Foundation, Houston, Texas
Horizon Health Center Limited Partnership,
Southfield
Inamed, Santa Barbara, California
Johnson & Johnson Corporation, New Brunswick,
New Jersey
Johnson Controls Foundation, Milwaukee,
Wisconsin
Robert B. Knauss, Los Angeles, California
Lockheed Martin, Lakeland, Florida
Lubrizol Foundation, Wickliffe, Ohio


Jeffrey N. Lutz, Grosse Pointe Farms
Colin A. Mayers, Hillsdale
Joseph L. McEntee, Jr., Dallas, Texas
McKeen Foundation Trust, West Bloomfield
Meredith Corporation Foundation, Des Moines,
Iowa
Mika, Meyers, Beckett & Jones, Grand Rapids
Leonard G. Miller, Williamsburg, Virginia
Miller, Canfield, Paddock & Stone, Ann Arbor
Linden David Nelson Foundation, Beverly Hills
Leo and Libby Nevas Family Fund of the Fairfield
County Foundation, Westport, Connecticut
David G. Nussmann, Houston, Texas
Pharmacia, Princeton, New Jersey
Public Sector Consultants, Inc., Lansing
Eugene B. Reid, Walnut Creek, California
John Riley, Toronto, Ohio
Aaron R. Ross, Southfield
Jack A. Rounick, Radnor, Pennsylvania
Nancy W. Rugani, Traverse City
Laura U. Schwartz, Port Washington, New York
Van Edward Scott, Muskegon
Seigle Family Foundation, Elgin, Illinois
Myron M. Sheinfeld, Houston, Texas
James C. Stanley, Ann Arbor
Edward Surovell Realtors, Ann Arbor
Arn H. Tellem, Los Angeles, California
Robert A. Toigo Foundation, Oakland, California
University of Michigan Club of Toledo,
Temperance
Twin Cities Chapter University of Michigan
Alumni, Woodbury, Minnesota
Susan B. Ullrich Trust


102




October Meeting, 2004


United Jewish Foundation Jewish Women's       Margaret Waterman Alumnae Group, Ann Arbor
Foundation, Bloomfield Hills               Wayne Homes, LLC, Uniontown, Ohio
Varnum, Riddering, Schmidt & Howlett LLP,     Wolohan Family Foundation, Saginaw
Grand Rapids                               Alfred C. Wooll, Ann Arbor
Visteon Fund, Dearborn                        Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Philadelphia,
Nancy Williams Walls, Ann Arbor                  Pennsylvania
Julian H-C Wan, Ann Arbor                     Gerald B. Zelenock, Ann Arbor
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Duane N. Dietrich, Muncie, Indiana
a collection of manuscripts, letters and documents of General Joseph M. Swing, Harry S. Truman,
John C. Calhoun, and more for the Clements Library
Filmetrics, Inc., San Diego, California
a tabletop thin-film measurement system USB version for the College of Engineering
Peter K. Gould, Chicago, Illinois
a large collection of 20'h Century literature for the University Library
Hewlett Packard Company, Littleton, Massachusetts
2 Compaq TC1100 P-M and 2 IPAQ H5550 Pocket PC's for the College of Engineering
Keith B. Hook, Bloomfield, Connecticut
a personal and family collection of letters, maps and documents containing historical and military
history content for the Clements Library
Janice B. Longone, Ann Arbor
an extensive collection of culinary books, publications, and other written materials for the
Clements Library
Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions.
NEWAPPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR.REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on September1, 2004
Spreitzer, Gretchen, Ph.D., from Associate Professor to Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human
Resource Management, Stephen M. Ross School of Business
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS., WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Piert, Morand, M.D., Associate Professor of Radiology, Medical School, October 21, 2004
Psarra, Sophia, Associate Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, January 1, 2005-June 30, 2009
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Fredrickson, Barbara L., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, also appointed Associate Professor of Management and Organizations, without
tenure, School of Business Administration, September 1, 2004
Goodson, Theodore G., III., Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also
appointed Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Markovits, Andrei S., Karl W. Deutsch Collegiate Professor of Comparative Politics and German Studies
and Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, also appointed Professor of
Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004
Otto, Charlotte A., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, and Associate Provost, University of Michigan-Dearborn, also appointed Professor of
Education, with tenure, UM-Dearbom School of Education, October 1, 2004
Sastry, Ann Marie, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of Materials
Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Simoni, Mary Hope, Associate Professor of Music (Music Technology), with tenure, also appointed
Associate Dean for Internet Publication, School of Music, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007


103




October Meeting, 2004


Zitzewitz, Paul, Professor of Physics, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Natural Sciences,
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, also appointed Professor of Education, with
tenure, UM-Dearborn School of Education, October 1, 2004
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1-December 31, 2004
Gallagher, Mary E., Assistant Professor of Political Science, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, extension of one-year leave
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishment ofEndowed Professorships
Frankel Professorship in Cardiovascular Surgery, Medical School, October 21, 2004
Joseph E. and Anne P. Rowe Professorship in Electrical Engineering, College of Engineering,
November 1, 2004
Renaming Existing Collegiate Professorships
Burke A. Hinsdale Collegiate Professorship in Education, School of Education, October 1, 2004
John F. Holt Collegiate Professorship in Radiology, Medical School, October 21, 2004
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointments to Named ProLssorship
Bayraktar, Erhan, T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Booker, Andrew, T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Leok, Melvin, T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Meyer, Daniel, T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Appointments to Endowed Professorships
Berguer, Ramon, Frankel Professor of Vascular Surgery, Medical School,
November 1, 2004-October 31, 2009
Feldman, Eva L., Russell N. DeJong Professor of Neurology, Medical School,
October 21, 2004-October 20, 2009
Reappointment to Collegiate Professorship
Halloran, John W., Alfred Holmes White Collegiate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering,
College of Engineering, January 1, 2005-December 31, 2009
Reappointments to Endowed Professorships
Friedmann, Peretz P., Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Professor of Aerospace Engineering, College of
Engineering, January 1, 2005
Papalambros, Panos Y., Donald C. Graham Professor of Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1, 2005-December 31, 2009
Other Transactions
Chandler, Susanne, Professor of Education, with tenure, and Dean, UM-Flint School of Education and
Human Services, November 1, 2004-June 30, 2009
Kuczkowski, Robert L., reappointed to active status, Professor Emeritus of Chemistry, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, October 1-December 31, 2004
Sweatman, Peter F., Director, University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007


104




O~ctober Meeeting, 20044


Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Ableser, Judith C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Alvey, Jennifer E., M.A., Lecturer in Sociology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Ameziane, Rafiqa, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Andrews, Jenna H., M.F.A., Lecturer in Art, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Arnedt, John T., Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry and Clinical Assistant Professor of
Neurology, Medical School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Arteta, Manuel, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2006
Aviles-Vazquez, Katia R., M.S., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Ayotte, Stacey, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Ayyagari, Radha, Ph.D., Professor of Ophthamology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Babcock, Julie, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Bakken, James D., B.Arch., Lecturer in Art, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Bakshi, Nasir A., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pathology, Medical School, August 6, 2004-June 30, 2005
Balbas, Jorge, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Balla, Angela J., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Bariun, Fawzia M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Barrett, Jason B., B.S., Lecturer in Computer Science, Engineering Science, and Physics, UM-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences, September 1-December 31, 2004
Bastedo, Michael N., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Batzer, Frederick R., Ph.D., Lecturer in Chemistry, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Bauer, Jill M., M.A., Lecturer in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Bayraktar, Erhan, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Beg, Mirza A.H., M.B.B.S., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Beleh, Mustapha A., Ph.D., Lecturer in Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Bhaduri, Mandira, M.A., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Blum, Jerome B., LL.B., Lecturer in Public Administration, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Bodary, Peter F., Ph.D., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, September 1-December 31, 2004
Bon Tempo, Carl J., Ph.D., Lecturer I in History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Brown, Cherie D., M.A., Lecturer in Computer Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Brown, Michael K., M.A., Lecturer in Public Administration, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Browning, Gerald L., Jr., Lecturer in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Bunn, Michael, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Cadman, Charles D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007


105




O~ctober Meeeting, 20044


Campbell, Carolyn, Ph.D., Lecturer in Education and Lecturer in Sociology, Anthropology, and Criminal
Justice, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services, September 1-December 31, 2004
Cao, Wei, M.A., Lecturer in Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Carr, Katherine L., B.A., Lecturer in Theatre and Dance, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Chamberlin, Jeremiah M., M.A., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Chambers, Anthony C., ED.D., Lecturer II in American Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Cheskidov, Alexey P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Clark, David B., J.D., Lecturer in History, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Coibion, Ava, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Custack, Sarah B., M.S., Lecturer in Engineering, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Daassa, Mohamed A., Ph.D., Lecturer in Foreign Languages, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Dahl, Roxann M., M.S., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, September 1-December 31, 2004
Darragh, Scott B., Ph.D., Lecturer in Economics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Davis, Nancy B., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Decamp, Lindsay, B.A., Lecturer in Theatre and Dance, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Deng, Lan, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2009
DiFranco, Jeffery C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Dischler, Vicki L., M.A., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Duda, Thomas F., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Dunca, Argus A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Emenyonu, Patricia T., Ph.D., Lecturer in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Er, Mehmet S., M.A., Lecturer II in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Evans, Janine S., M.A., Lecturer in University Productions, School of Music,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Farmer, Michael E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Computer Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Ferguson, Mark H., M.S., Lecturer in Earth and Resource Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1-December 31, 2004
Flint, Leroy E., B.S., Lecturer in Computer Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Furrow, Hannah, M.A., Lecturer in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Giguere, Raymond E., M.A., Lecturer in Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Gilbert, Anna C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Gilbert, James R., M.F.A., Lecturer in Art, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Gloeckner, Phoebe L., M.A., Assistant Professor of Art, School of Art and Design,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Gold, Lauren, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
August 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Gutchess, Angela M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Guthrie, Michael L., M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1-December 31, 2004


106




Ar-"&
October Meeting, 2004


Habeck, Dania E., M.P.T., Lecturer in Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Hahn, Irene J., M.A., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Hanai, Yoshiro, M.A., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Harder, H. Kirk, M.A., Lecturer in Foreign Languages, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Harrington, Emily M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Hartson, Jennifer M., M.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Herbig, Anne-Katrin, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Higgs, Amy L., M.S., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Hill, John D., M.M., Lecturer in Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Hirshman, Amy J., Ph.D., Lecturer in Sociology, Anthropology, and Criminal Justice, UM-Flint College
of Arts and Sciences, September 1-December 31, 2004
Hobbs, Raymond, M.D., Lecturer II in First Year Seminars, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Holcomb, Glen L., M.M., Lecturer in Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Horgan, Terrence, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Hubeli, Roger, M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Hughes, Christopher P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Hughes, James P., M.P.A., Lecturer in Public Administration, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Ilschner, Friederike E., LICENC., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Israel, Shirley, M.A., Lecturer in Foreign Languages, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Jimbo, Masahito, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Joe, Sean, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Johnson, Scott E., Ph.D., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Kahan, Jeffrey, M.U.P., Lecturer in Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Kenner, William W., M.A.T., Lecturer in Communication, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Knight, Suzanne, M.A., Lecturer in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Kolesnikov, Alexei S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Kong, Katherine, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Comparative Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Lacy, Karyn R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
LaHaie, Kayla S., M.B.A., Lecturer in Computer Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Larsen, Julie M., M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Laskowski, Gene, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Laurent, Maxime, M.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Lee, Jee-Yoon, Ph.D., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005


107




O~ctober Meeeting, 20044


Lee, Cheol W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering,
UM-Flint College of Engineering and Computer Science, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2006
Leok, Melvin B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Lillevik, Waheeda, Ph.D., Lecturer in Management, UM-Flint School of Management,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Lim, Lynette G., M.A., Lecturer II in Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Linic, Suljo, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Linker, John S., Jr., M.S., Lecturer in Earth and Resource Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1-December 31, 2004
Lorch, Janet L., A.A., Lecturer in Art, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Losh, Rachel, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Lozano, Guadalupe I., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Maldonado, Georgina, LICEN., Lecturer I in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Malinovskaia, Svetlana, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Marr, Elisha M., M.S., Lecturer in Sociology, Anthropology, and Criminal Justice, UM-Flint College of
Arts and Sciences, September 1-December 31,2004
Mayes, Frances L., M.S.N., Lecturer I in First Year Seminars, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
McKay, Tamara L., M.A., Lecturer in Psychology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Meyer, Daniel, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Michalak, Anna M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Moliassa, John A., B.A., Lecturer in Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Morolla, Marcantonio, M.A., Lecturer in Public Administration, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Moss, George W., M.A., Lecturer in Africana Studies, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Myers, Valerie L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Health Management and Policy, School of Public
Health, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Nagoumey, Peter, Ph.D., Lecturer in English, College of Engineering, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Ndodjio, Muriel, MAITUS, Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Nelson, Rachel, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Nerenberg, Lucila, M.D., Lecturer I in First Year Seminars, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Ng, Nathan C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Nichols, Ulrike P., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Nofsinger, Dave A., M.F.A., Lecturer in Theatre and Dance, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Nuffer, Gerhard F., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Osborn, Nancy L., M.A., Lecturer in Theatre and Dance, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Packer, James D., M.A., Lecturer in Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Palmieri, Riann A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Panoff, Christine A., M.A., Lecturer in Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Park, Sunyoung, B.A., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005


108




O~ctober Meeeting, 20044


Park, Sungho, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint School of Education and Human
Services, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Patton, Susana R., Ph.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
September 7, 2004-September 6, 2005
Phillips, James C., M.A.T., Lecturer in Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Polenberg-Ramsay, Marcia L., M.F.A., Lecturer in Art, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Poor, Nathanial D., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Price, Matthew D., M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Art and Design, School of Art and Design,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Prost, Kenneth L., B.S., Lecturer in Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Purdy, Carolina B., B.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Rahman, Ahmad A., M.A., Instructor in History, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Ramsburgh, John S., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Ramsey, Nicholas A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Reilly, Molly, M.F.A., Lecturer in Art, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Robinson, Wendy G., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Ron-Yerushalmi, Ronit, M.ED., Lecturer II in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Rosic, Marija, B.A., Lecturer I in Slavic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Rosoff, Stephen M., M.A., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Roura-Mir, Maria, M.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Roussanova, Rossitza B., M.A., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Ryan, H. Kyle, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Samy, Waheed A., Ph.D., Lecturer III in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Schmall, Sally A., M.S., Lecturer I in First Year Seminars, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Schuetze, Scott M., Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Hematology/Oncology, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Shinavier, William T., Jr., M.S.., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Shtein, Max, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Siegel, Karen E., B.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Sisson, David M., M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1-December 31, 2004
Smith, Donald A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Smorch, Leonard D., M.B.A., Lecturer in Public Administration, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Smotrich, Hannah, M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Art and Design, School of Art and Design,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Song, Jie, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Spice, Loren R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Stearns, Carola H., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Geological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Stevens, Holly A., M.A., Lecturer in Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004


109




Ar-"&
October Meeting, 2004


Stratton, Matthew G., M.A., Lecturer in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Strauss, Martin J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Sturtevant, Mark A., Ph.D., Lecturer in Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Talarico, Janet E., M.P.A., Lecturer in Sociology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Tambling, Connie S., M.A., Lecturer in Foreign Languages, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Thomas, Max M., Ph.D., Lecturer in Philosophy, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Thornton, Katsuyo S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Timmermann, Achim., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Treynor, Wendy F.C., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Tropp, Joel A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Unuvar, Mustafa U., Ph.D., Lecturer in Computer Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Vees-Gulani, Susanne H., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Wagonlander, Charles F., M.A., Lecturer in Art, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Wandmacher, Stevens F., Ph.D., Lecturer in Philosophy, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
West, Renee P., B.A., Lecturer in Foreign Languages, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Williams, Elizabeth A., M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, September 1-December 31, 2004
Winter, Dale J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Witgen, Michael, M.A., Assistant Professor of American Culture Program and Assistant Professor of
History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Woolf, Peter., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Wooten, Lynn P., Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Corporate Strategy and International Business,
Stephen M. Ross School of Business Administration, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Wright, Joseph N., B.M., Lecturer in Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Xiang, Ming, M.A., Lecturer in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Xin, Wei, Ph.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pathology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Yang, Stephanie T., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Yarber, Kim D., M.Div., Lecturer in Africana Studies, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Yegin, Korkut, Ph.D., Lecturer in Computer Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Yinger, J.D. Nick, B.S., Lecturer in Chemistry, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Young, Christopher R., M.A., Lecturer in Art, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Ziemba, Rosemary A., Ph.D., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, July 1-December 31, 2004
CORRECTION OR CHANGE TO AI)MINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Debski, Bernard F., Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, October 1,
2004-August 31, 2007 (previously reported as September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007)


110




O~ctober Meeeting, 20044


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Aribarg, Anocha, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Marketing, Stephen M. Ross School of
Business, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Fissell, William H., from Clinical Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2011
Guo, Yi, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Management Studies, UM-Dearborn School of
Management, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2007
Hassan, Adam S., from Clinical Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences,
Medical School, July 15, 2004-August 31, 2005
Kerns, Josie, Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies also appointed Lecturer II in English Language and
Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Lacy, Karyn R., Assistant Professor of Sociology also appointed Assistant Professor of Afro-American
and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Lyon, Thomas P., Lecturer in Business Economics, Stephen M. Ross School of Business Administration,
also appointed Lecturer in Natural Resources and Environment, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Malek, Sami, from Clinical Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
August 1, 2004-July 31, 2005
Michele, Daniel E., Assistant Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology also appointed Assistant
Professor of Molecular Medicine and Genetics, Medical School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Nordhielm, Christie L., from Lecturer to Clinical Associate Professor of Marketing, Stephen M. Ross
School of Business, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Ross, Deborah P., from Assistant Professor to Lecturer III in Classical Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Rutowski, Patricia A., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, also appointed Lecturer I in First Year
Seminars, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-January 31, 2005
Sanchez, Maria, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature also appointed Assistant
Professor of Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Sanok, Catherine, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature also appointed Assistant
Professor of Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Siebenthal, Sharman L., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Tolinski, Michael J., Lecturer in Undergraduate Education, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
also appointed Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Brown, Allan C., Associate Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology and Associate Professor Emeritus of
Anesthesiology in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Cameron, Oliver G., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, Medical School, and Professor Emeritus of
Undergraduate Education, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Domino, Edward F., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Eisley, Joe G., Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Farley, W. Reynolds, Professor Emeritus of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 1, 2004-July 31, 2005
Fortner, Richard W., Professor Emeritus of Management, UM-Flint School of Management,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Gosling, L.A. Peter, Professor Emeritus of Southeast Asian Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004


111




Ar-"&
October Meeting, 2004


Gurin, Patricia Y., Nancy Cantor Distinguished University Professor Emerita of Psychology and
Women's Studies and Professor Emerita of Psychology and Women's Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Hopwood, Nancy J., Professor Emerita of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
August 1, 2004-July 31, 2005
Konigsberg, Ira H., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature and Professor Emeritus of Film
and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Ladu, Bert N., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Lindenauer, S. Martin, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, December 1, 2004-November 30, 2005
Livermore, Shaw, Jr., Professor Emeritus of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Mann, Richard D., Professor Emeritus of Psychology and Professor Emeritus of Religion, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Marans, Robert W., Professor Emeritus of Architecture and Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College
of Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Moore, Theodore C., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Geological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, August 1-October 31, 2004
Neal, David L., Assistant Professor Emeritus of Social Work, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Ness, Gayl D., Professor Emeritus of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor Emeritus of Population Planning and International Health, School of Public Health,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Powers, Lyall H., Professor Emeritus of Language and Literature and Professor Emeritus of First Year
Seminars, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Rosenthal, Marilynn M., Professor Emerita of Sociology, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, July 1, 2003-April 30, 2005
Schmerl, Rudolf B., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Schottenfeld, David, Professor Emeritus of Epidemiolgy, School of Public Health, and Professor
Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Stern, Robert M., Professor Emeritus of Economics and Public Policy, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Professor Emeritus of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Steude, Georgine M., Assistant Professor Emerita of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor Emerita of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Tanter, Raymond, Professor Emeritus of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Townsend, Leroy B., Albert B. Prescott Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Medicinal
Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, and Professor Emeritus of Chemistry, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Weber, Wendell W., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Whitehouse, Frank, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical
School, September 1-December 31, 2004
Zannoni, Vincent G., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Allen, Elizabeth A., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Axinn, William G., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Best, Mary H., Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School, child care leave,
September 15-October 17, 2004
Binno, Shereen M., Clinical Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, child care leave,
June 20-September 30, 2004
Brenner, Dean E., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Pharmacology, without
tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, November 15, 2004-May 15, 2005
Brown, Charles C., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Burslem, Elizabeth A., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
personal leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005


112




O~ctober Meeeting, 20044


Delanghe, Gay A., Professor of Dance, with tenure, School of Music, and Lecturer in Education, School
of Education, extended sick leave, October 9-October 24, 2004
Fishman, Barry J., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Educaiton, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2004, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Fries, Brant E., Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of Public Health,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Gruber, Stephen B., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Human Genetics, without tenure, Medical School, and Associate Professor of Epidemiology,
without tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Haan, Mary N., Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2005
Kantowitz, Barry H., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, and Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Kenyon, George L., Tom D. Rowe Collegiate Professor of Pharmacy and Professor of Pharmaceutical
Chemistry, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, administrative leave, September 1, 2004-March 31, 2005
Koditschek, Daniel E., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College
of Engineering, personal leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Larsen, Edward W., Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Lazarus, Belinda D., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of Education,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Lee, John C., Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Nornes, Mark H., Associate Professor of Film and Video Studies, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Asian Languages and Cultures, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Price, Richard H., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Raman, Kalyan, Professor of Marketing, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Management, outside teaching
leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Rasmussen, Paul G., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, with
tenure, College of Engineering, duty off campus, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005, and retirement
furlough September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Ratner, Steven R., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Rutowski, Patricia A., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, retirement furlough,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
See, Maria S., Assistant Professor of American Culture and Assistant Professor of English Language and
Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Shamim, Tariq, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of
Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Sheiman, James M., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2004-February 28, 2005
Vincent, James H., Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, with tenure, School of Public Health,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
CANCELLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Grotberg, James B., Professor of Biomedical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, and Professor
of Surgery, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Anusaksathien, Orasa, Clinical Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 31, 2004
Blaurock, Madeleine C., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 20, 2004
Brown, Joseph W., Clinical Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, School of
Public Health, August 31, 2004
Davis, Alice E., Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 2004


113




O~ctober Meeeting, 20044


Fleming, Monique A., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Gold, David, Assistant Professor of Rhetoric and Composition, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, June 30, 2004
Gutow, Andrew P., Assistant Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School, September 19, 2004
Juhasz, Tibor, Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
September 30, 2004
Kalyvas, Andreas, Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Le, Theodore T., Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School, August 31, 2004
Long, Michael W., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, Medical School,
September 15, 2004
Marsh, Julie A., Lecturer in Theatre, School of Music, August 9, 2004
McDevitt, Timothy J., Lecturer in Theatre and Drama, School of Music, August 27, 2004
McDowell, Sharon K., Clinical Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
August 22, 2004
Nabel, Gary J., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Biological Chemistry, with
tenure, Medical School, March 31, 2004
Omann, Geneva M., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Biological
Chemistry, without tenure, Medical School, August 7, 2004
Oswald, Gilbert T., II, Lecturer in Technical Communication and Lecturer in Undergraduate Education,
College of Engineering, May 31, 2004
Pavlidis, Dimitris, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, May 31, 2004
Shah, Samantha R., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 27, 2004
Shen, Zheng, Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
College of Engineering and Computer Science, July 31, 2004
Shulkin, Barry L., Professor of Radiology, without tenure, Medical School, July 21, 2004
Starling, Mark R, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, September 17, 2004
Tait, Priscilla R., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 2004
Retired
Einhorn, Martin B., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2004
Moises, Hylan C., Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, without tenure, Medical School,
August 31, 2004
Rutowski, Patricia A., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 2005
Terinm Completed
Arroyo-Rodriguez, Daniel, Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2004
Bhartia, Bobby, Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, August 31, 2004
Cabala, Stephanie L., Lecturer I in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2004
Florido-Berrocal, Joaquin, Lecturer II in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30,
2004
Francis, Janelle V., Lecturer I in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2004
Geiser, Reto D., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, May 31, 2004
Harrison, C. Keith, Assistant Professor of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, May 31, 2004
Loos, Paul J., Associate Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 30, 2003
Nelson, Caleb P., Lecturer in Urology, Medical School, June 30, 2004
Pesko, Kendra N., Lecturer I in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2004
Petru, Martina, Lecturer I in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2004
Pierle, Matthew A., Lecturer I in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2004
Pompei, Vanessa K., Lecturer I in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2004
Sacchi, Fabiana A., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, August 31, 2004
Schubel, Adam T., Lecturer I in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2004
Westbrock, Mark A., Lecturer I in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2004
Wolf, Mary C., Lecturer I in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2004
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted one faculty retirement
memoir.


114




October IMeeting, 2004


Martin B. Einhorn, Ph.D., professor of physics in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 2004.
Professor Einhorn received his B.S. degree from the California Institute of
Technology in 1965 and his Ph.D. degree from Princeton University in 1968. He was a
postdoctoral fellow at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Laboratory (1968-70), Lawrence
Berkeley Laboratory (1970-72), and the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory
(1972-73), and a staff physicist at the latter from 1973-76. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty as an associate research scientist in 1976 and was promoted to
associate professor in 1979 and professor in 1983.
Professor Einhorn's research spans a broad range of topics in relativistic quantum
field theory and focuses on relating theory to existing or potential experimental results.
His work includes studies of cosmology and phase transitions in the early universe,
quantum gravity, the cosmological constant problem, and superstring theory. He was
editor of the book, The Standard Model Higgs Boson. Professor Einhorn also played a
significant role in government and university advisory positions. He was a member of
the original national panel that established the Institute for Theoretical Physics and a
member of the Department of Energy's High Energy Physics Advisory Panel. He
served on the executive committee of the Division of Particles and Fields of the
American Physical Society, was deputy director of the Institute for Theoretical Physics
at the University of California-Santa Barbara, and was a long-time consultant for the
Department of Energy. Within the University, he served on the Department of Physics
Executive Committee and chaired the Research Policies Committee for the vice
president for research and the Financial Affairs Advisory Committee for the executive
vice president and chief financial officer.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Martin B. Einhorn
professor emeritus of physics.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported this month.
However, President Coleman announced and commented upon the deaths of two
individuals: Thomas M. Donahue, Edward H. White II Distinguished Professor
Emeritus of Planetary Science, professor emeritus of physics, and professor emeritus of
atmospheric, oceanic, and space sciences; and Gail W. Rector, president emeritus of the
University Musical Society.
Degrees. Provost Courant submitted for approval final degree lists for April 2004
and August 2004 commencements and approved changes to previously approved degree
lists.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Annual Report of Investments
The Regents received the Annual Report of Investments as of June 30, 2004.
Alternative Asset Commitment
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $25 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Graham Partners II L.P.


115




October Meeting, 2004


Alternative Asset Commitment
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $20 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Elevation Partners, L.P.
Alternative Asset Commitment
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $50 million from the University Investment
Pool to Canyon Capital Realty Advisors to manage a Mortgage Investment Account.
University of Michigan Financial Statements for the Year ended June 30, 2004
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that the Regents had received the
comprehensive certified financial statements for fiscal year 2004 in September and had
just received the report about the statements from the Finance, Audit and Investment
Committee. He reported that the external auditors had issued an unqualified opinion and
praised the team that had compiled the financial statements.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Financial Statements for the Year
ended June 30, 2004.
Regent Richner inquired about whether there is a different rating system for the
long-term debt issued for the University of Michigan Health System as opposed to the
rest of the campus. Executive Vice President Slottow explained the rating system and
noted that each bond issue has its own specific rating. When bonds are issued to
support hospital activities, they are generally backed only by hospital gross revenues,
which receive their own rating. Regent Richner inquired whether hospital debt could be
issued under general University debt to take advantage of lower interest rates.
Executive Vice President Slottow responded that some institutions do operate in this
manner, and that this is a policy issue with pros and cons that needs to be explored with
the Finance, Audit and Investment Committee.
Executive Vice President Slottow called attention to the condensed version of the
financial report that had been prepared in cooperation with the offices of the vice
president for development and vice president for communications.
Athletic Department Junge Family Champions Center
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the schematic design for the Junge Family Champions Center
project and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts,
providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Replacement of Jordan Hall Elevator in Mosher-Jordan Residence Hall
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the Jordan Hall Elevator Replacement Project in Mosher-Jordan
Hall as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction
contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.


116




October Meeting, 2004


Replacement of "Five Hall" Elevator in Stockwell Residence Hall
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the "Five Hall" Elevator Replacement Project in Stockwell
Residence Hall as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
West Quadrangle Residence Hall 2005 Infrastructure Updates
Executive Vice President Slottow commented that this project represents the first of
the major "Residential Life Initiatives" projects and is meant to address infrastructure and
life safety needs in West Quad. It includes fire protection enhancements, information
technology upgrades, and a new electrical substation to provide enhanced capacity and
reliability.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the West Quadrangle Residence 2005 Infrastructure Updates
Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Michigan Stadium 2005 Concrete Repairs
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the Michigan Stadium 2005 Concrete Repairs Project as described
and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing
that bids are within the approved budget.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes 5 conflict of interest items,
each of which requires 6 votes for approval. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by
Regent Richner the Regents unanimously approved each of the following items:
Approval of Payment for Glenn P. Fischer LLC
The Regents approved a payment by the Stephen M. Ross School of Business for
services provided by Glenn P. Fischer LLC. Because Glenn P. Fischer, owner of Glenn P.
Fischer LLC, is also a University of Michigan employee, this purchase falls under the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Stephen M. Ross School of Business and Glenn P. Fischer LLC.
2.   The service provided was audio publishing at a cost of $5,980.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Glenn P. Fischer, a University of
Michigan employee, is owner of Glenn P. Fischer LLC.
Approval of Amendment to a Purchasing Contract with Wright Medical Technology
The Regents approved an amendment to a purchasing contract between the
Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Wright Medical Technology. Because Dr. J.
David Blaha, stockholder in Wright Medical Technology, is also a University of Michigan
employee, this contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:


117




OIctober Mbieet~ing, 2004


1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Wright Medical Technology.
2.   The goods provided are knee and hip implant systems. The systems are to be provided
from July 1, 2003 to June 30, 2005 and will cost a total of $2,500,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. J. David Blaha, a University of
Michigan employee, is a stockholder in Wright Medical Technology.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Xoran Technologies, Inc.
The Regents approved a license agreement with Wright Medical Technology for the
"Device for Dentomaxillofacial X-Ray Computed Tomography" (UM File No. 2184) and
"A Method for Extending the Dynamic Range of Flat Panel Detectors" (UM File No.
2210). Because Neal Clinthome, chair and vice president of Xoran Technologies, Inc., is
also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Xoran
Technologies, Inc.
2.   The licensing terms include use in all fields; an exclusive, world-wide license with a
right to grant sublicenses to Technology as defined by UM File Nos. 2184 and 2210;
minimum annual fees; royalty on net sales or set fee on per unit sales: and
developmental milestones. Xoran Technologies, Inc., will reimburse the University's
patent expenses and pay patent expenses incurred during the license term.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it as a research tool. No use of University services or
facilities, nor any assignment of University employees is obligated under the
agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Neal Clinthrone, a University of
Michigan employee, is chair and vice president of Xoran Technologies, Inc. Mr.
Clinthome waves any personal participation in the sharing of funds received by Xoran
Technologies, Inc., as a result of this agreement.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Oncolmmune
The Regents approved a license agreement with Oncolmmune to patent and
commercialize an invention developed by the University of Michigan, "Ras Mutants
Control Oncogenic Transformation" (UM File No. 1769). Because Dr. Kunliang Guan
holds an equity interest in Oncolmmune and is also a University of Michigan employee,
this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Oncolmmune.
2.   The licensing terms are for the life of the patent and include upfront licensing fees,
royalties paid to the University based on net sales, royalties paid on sublicense
revenue, and minimum annual royalties beginning in 2007. Oncolmmune has
exclusive rights to practice and commercialize the technology, subject to certain rights
reserved by the University.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it as a research tool. No use of University services or
facilities, nor any assignment of University employees is obligated under the
agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Kunliang Guan, a University of
Michigan employee, holds equity interest in Oncolmmune. Dr. Guan waves any
personal participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University from
Oncolmmune.


118




O~ctober Meeeting, 20044


License Agreement between the University of Michigan and SensiGen, Inc.
The Regents approved a license agreement with SensiGen, Inc., for the technology
entitled "Early Detection of Hypertension by Non-Invasive RT-PCR of Urine Sediment
Cells" (UM File No. 1758). Because Dr. David Kumit, principal owner of SensiGen, Inc.,
is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
SensiGen, Inc.
2.   The licensing terms grant SensiGen, Inc., an exclusive license with a right to grant
sublicenses to UM File No. 1758. SensiGen, Inc., will reimburse the University's
patent expenses and pay patent expenses incurred during the license term. The terms
of the agreement also include a license fee, equity, royalties on net sales, minimum
annual fees, and developmental milestones.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. David Kurnit, a University of
Michigan employee, is principal owner of SensiGen, Inc. Dr. Kumit has waived any
personal participation in the sharing of funds received by the University from
SensiGen, Inc., as a result of any license agreement with the University.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and T/J Technologies, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with T/J Technologies, Inc., for
funding of a project in the Department of Chemistry. Because Dr. Levi Thompson, Jr.,
part owner of T/J Technologies, Inc., is also a University of Michigan employee, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to this agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and T/J
Technologies, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to the University policy. The period of
performance for the project is one year and the funding support is $30,000. Since
research agreements are often amended, the subcontract includes provisions for
changes in time, amount, and scope. University of Michigan procedures for approval
of these changes will be followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest
Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Levi Thompson, Jr., a University of
Michigan employee, is part owner of T/J Technologies, Inc.
As this concluded the regular agenda, the meeting recessed at 3:20 p.m. to meet in
informal session and reconvened in formal session at 4:30 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from David Sponseller, alumnus, on "sane dormitory
policy," and David Boyle, alumnus, on Regents' Meeting access.


119




O~ctober Meeeting, 20044


There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:40 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for November 18, 2004.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


120




NOVEMBER MEETING, 2004


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, November 18, 2004
The Regents convened at 2:45 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner, and
White. Also present were Provost Courant, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice
President Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice President May,
Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice President Slottow, Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Regent Taylor was absent; Regent White left at about 4:00 p.m.
Call to Order and Opening Remarks
President Coleman called the meeting to order at 2:40 p.m. She commented on some
recent, noteworthy University events, including the groundbreaking for Weill Hall which
was attended by President Ford. She called attention to the Hill Dining Center request
that is on the agenda, as well as several other items. President Coleman also commented
on the importance of maintaining the University's core academic quality while continuing
its commitment to affordability. She noted that a recent study had concluded that after the
various types of financial aid are considered, the real cost of a public university education
among the state's 15 higher education institutions, including the University of Michigan,
is less now than it was in 1998. This is the result of the University's commitment to
providing financial aid at a rate equal to or greater than tuition increases each year.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning, with Regent White in attendance and Regent Taylor
absent. The committee received written reports on the first quarter of FY 05 for the Life
Sciences Institute and the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC). He noted that the UMHHC results are above budget and congratulated the
leadership on this accomplishment. Other agenda items included a discussion with Carol
Senneff, executive director of University audits, and a discussion of the overall University
debt structure and strategy with Associate Vice President Peggy Norgren, Treasurer Greg
Tewksbury, and Assistant Treasurer Milagros Dugan. He commented that the balance
sheet is very strong in every category compared to competitive benchmarks.
Compensation and Personnel Committee. Regent Maynard reported that the
committee had met that morning. In addition to herself and committee members Regent
Deitch and Regent Richner, participants had included Regent McGowan, Vice President
Tedesco, and President Coleman. The committee had conducted a final review of its
proposed revised charter and bylaws. It had also reviewed the status of current dean
searches with Provost Courant and had discussed the annual report of SACUA with
chair Stan Berent.


121




November MIeeting, 2004


College of Engineering Strategic Assessment
Provost Courant noted that after becoming provost, he had initiated a process
involving regular strategic assessment of all academic units at a rate of about two per year.
Assessments are conducted by two committees, one internal to the University but external
to the school or college, and the other external to the University. He noted that the overall
assessment of the College of Engineering had been highly positive, and he introduced
Dean Stephen Director.
Dean Director gave a slide presentation describing the college and its programs.
He noted that all of its departments are ranked among the top ten nationally, and he
highlighted some of the notable achievements of its graduates. He commented that
although the college has twice the national average of women and underrepresented
minority undergraduate students, it is committed to enrolling more. To that end, the
college has developed a partnership with the Atlanta University Consortium, under
which the college has enrolled its first class of dual-degree engineering program
students from Morehouse and Spellman Colleges. The college is also committed to
increasing the diversity of its graduate student body and its faculty.
Dean Director described some of the entities created to address the "grand
challenges" that provide a focal point for research in the college. These include the
NSF Engineering Research Center (ERC) in Reconfigurable Manufacturing Systems,
the NSF ERC for Wireless Integrated MicroSystems, the Automotive Research Center,
and the Dioxin Exposure Study. Other advances developed by College of Engineering
faculty include engineered cementitious composite (used for bridges), "animal on a
chip," and advanced brain machine interfaces. Dean Director commented that almost
50% of the University's technology transfer activities are generated by the College of
Engineering.
Dean Director concluded by noting that the college's participation in the
"Michigan Difference" campaign had been dubbed "Progress and Promise" and would
allow the college to achieve its vision through construction of new facilities and
enhancement of educational programs.
Regent Deitch observed that the College of Engineering is "one of our gems" that
has gone from strength to greater strength, and he asked about the dean's goals for the
coming years. Dean Director responded that the college will focus on addressing the
grand societal challenges. This will require significant technological innovation and
collaboration with other schools and colleges. Other challenges will include continuing
to provide educational programs that will allow students to go on and have an impact on
the world.
Regent White commented on the number of international students in the doctoral
programs. Dean Director responded that 47% of the college's graduate students are
international, which is low compared to many other colleges of engineering. He noted
that it is desirable for the college to have a large percentage of international students, as
those who attend the University of Michigan are among the best in the world.
However, the college has also been working hard to continue to attract American
students.


122




November Meeting, 2004


Regent Richner inquired as to how the college had responded to the difficult
budget situation of recent years. Dean Director responded that the administration was
able to take some measures centrally to reduce the impact of budget cuts on programs,
although some programs have had to be reduced and some classes consolidated. The
college was able to absorb some of the impact of budget strain by increasing the number
of students and increasing research funding.
In response to a question from Regent Brandon about the challenges faced by the
college over the next five years, Dean Director responded that he mostly sees
opportunities. The most notable challenges involve recruiting and retaining outstanding
faculty and ensuring the college's accessibility for students. With respect to recruiting
and retaining women and minority faculty, he noted that to ensure that the environment
is supportive, the college has worked on improving family-friendly policies and
addressing the needs of dual career couples. Increasing the number of minority faculty
has been a difficult challenge, one which requires continued attention.
Annual Report of the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs (SACUA)
Professor Stanley Berent, chair of SACUA, delivered the committee's annual report.
He pointed out that the relationship between formal faculty governance and the
University's executive officers is exemplary. He identified the following seven issues that
represent the current focus of SACUA's work: 1) faculty quality of life issues; 2)
evaluation of administrators by faculty; 3) tenure/non-tenure track faculty; 4) the
importance of tenure to the institution; 5) shared governance; 6) grade inflation and
alteration; and 7) research support for junior faculty.
Professor Berent also described some of the recent SACUA activities, including
the annual Faculty Governance Luncheon, the annual meeting, the work of the
Administration Evaluation Committee, the Regent Candidates Forum, and the Davis,
Markert, Nickerson Lecture on Academic and Intellectual Freedom. He acknowledged
with appreciation the role of faculty representation that the Regents has granted to
SACUA and noted that the positive atmosphere of collegiality that results allows an
informed faculty perspective to influence important institutional decisions.
Annual Operating Requests to the State
Ann Arbor Campus. Provost Courant reported that state officials had indicated
that no funding would be available for new initiatives and pointed out that the
University's costs are expected to increase in FY 2006 by $30-$35 million. The request
for the Ann Arbor campus is for restoration of as much as possible of the $43.5 million in
appropriation that had been reduced since FY 2002, and that the state not tie its action on
the state appropriation to tuition restraint. Regarding the criteria that should be used in
determining the amount of state appropriation, he noted that the University of Michigan
leads the state in such measures as number of degrees awarded, graduation rates, spin-off
companies, amount spent on financial aid for Michigan residents, ability to attract
sponsored research from outside the state, and jobs created in the state.
eaborn   Campus.    Chancellor Little noted that the cumulative effect of
reductions in appropriations on the Dearborn campus has been extremely harmful. The
campus is requesting restoration of the $3.1 million that has been cut over the last three
years and an increased allocation of $1 million.


123




November Meeting, 2004


Flint Campus. Chancellor Mestas said that the Flint Campus is requesting
funding that will allow it to continue to provide an excellent education at a reasonable
cost. Specifically, funding is needed to increase the number of faculty positions, to
continue to expand campus technology, and to enhance community partnerships.
Although the request reflects the genuine need of the institution, they realize this level
of funding is not likely to be met.
The Regents then turned to the regular agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the meeting
of October 21, 2004.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report, the
Plant Extension Report, and the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report.
Liitigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of projects
established, October 31, 2004. He reported that expenditures are up 5.5% compared to
this time last year.
University of Michigan Health System.    Executive Vice President Kelch
commented that the Hospitals and Health Centers had recently completed the joint
accreditation commission survey and that the outcome was remarkably positive. He
called attention to the appointment of Karin Muraszko as chair of the Department of
Neurosurgery. Provost Courant concurred that this was a "spectacular" appointment
recommendation.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper observed that the business
agenda includes a request for approval of another significant step in the Residential Life
Initiative: the renewal of residence hall dining operations. The Hill Dining Center will
allow the University to offer a dining program that is better suited to their preferences
and expectations, and it will include a "marketplace" dining environment.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little called attention to the
reappointment of Subrata Sengupta as dean of the College of Engineering and
Computer Science.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas commented that four alumni of
the University of Michigan-Flint had been either elected or re-elected to office during
the recent election. He also reported that Provost Renate McLaughlin had announced
her retirement, and he praised the leadership she had provided during her long tenure.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. Jason Mironov, president of MSA,
introduced Amy Keller, president of the Residence Halls Association. Ms. Keller
announced that the University of Michigan had just been named "School of the Year"
by the Great Lakes Affiliate of College and University Residence Halls. Mr. Mironov
noted that Ms. Keller had also won the "Student of the Year Award" by the residence
halls association.


124




November Meeting, 2004


Mr. Mironov commented that MSA mid-term elections were underway. He
informed the Regents that MSA would be requesting a fee increase for fiscal year
2004-05 and noted that the organization was only able to fill 23%      of the funding
requests it had received this year. He said that a new framework is being developed for
making internal funding decisions.
Voluntary Support. Vice President May submitted the Report on Voluntary
Support for October, 2004, and thanked the Regents and executive officers for their
support of the building dedication events for the Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Policy.
Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering.................................. $15,000
Ann and Bob Aikens Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Ann and Robert B. Aikens Endowment Fund in the Law School................. 10,000
Alcoa, Inc., Davenport, Iowa
for the Women's Initiative in Leadership Program in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
for support in the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the College of Engineering, and
for the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................................... 55,000
Alro Steel Corporation, Jackson
for the Football Locker Room Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 100,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 135,612
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School............................................. 25,00
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School........................................ 27,805
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for support in the Medical School........................................... 42,000
George E. Anderson, Farmington Hills
for the Class of 1931 Engineer's Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering........ 14,246
Judith L. Angood, Battle Creek
for the Arthur W. and Judith L. Angood Marching Band Scholarship Fund in
the School of Music...................................................... 30,000
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 71,250
Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Foundation, Zug, Switzerland
for the Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Fellowship in the College of Engineering........... 149,980
Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation, Irvine, California
for research in the College of Pharmacy and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 320,000
Stanley N. Bergman, New Haven, Connecticut
250 shares of Bank of America Corporation common stock
for support in the Law  School................................................  11,298
Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation, West Bend, Wisconsin
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............................. 30,000
Breast Cancer Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute and the Medical School.......... 374,794
Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Leo Burnett Scholars Award in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.......... 28,000
Richard M. Burridge, Hinsdale, Illinois
186 shares of Affiliated Managers Group common stock
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............................. 10,314
Cairn Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Walgreen Drama - Arthur Miller Theatre in the School of Music................ 50,000
Gordon R. Carrier, San Diego, California
for the Michigan Solar House in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.................... 10,000
Joseph B. and Florence V. Cejka Foundation, Inc., Bedminster, New Jersey
for the Joseph B. and Florence V. Cejka Endowed Scholarship Fund in
the College of Engineering............................................ 1,000,000
CFI Group, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society and WUOM.................................. 24,212
Ruth Smith Clemenson Estate
for student sunnort in the College of Literature. Science, and the Arts................... 38.837


125




November Meeting, 2004


Mary Sue Coleman, Ann Arbor
for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Fellowship in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Life Sciences Fund,
for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Undergraduate Scholarship,
for the Leslie Kish Fund in the Institute for Social Research,
for Trotter House, and
for the Museum  of Art Building  Project..........................................15,000
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for scholarships at the University of Michigan-Flint................................ 13,529
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Cook Family Foundation Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 10,000
Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the  M edical School..............................................17,000
William M. Cutler, Vero Beach, Florida
270 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School and
for the Class of 1952 Fund in the School of Nursing................................ 10,943
Deister Machine Company, Inc., Fort Wayne, Indiana
for research and other support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center,
the Department of Athletics, and the Medical School............................... 15,000
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for the Dekers Club Hockey Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics.............10,000
Deloitte Foundation, Wilton, Connecticut
for employee  matching  gifts................................................... 56,090
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.........................................24,750
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program, Inc., Detroit
for the Special Engineering Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering..............25,000
George H. Deuble Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the George H. Deuble Foundation Law Fellowship in the Law School and
for the George H. Deuble Scholarship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.... 10,000
Bill and Molly Dobson Fund of the Ann Arbor Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Maiy Hunter Dobson Scholarship Fund in the Center for the Education of Women,
for research and other support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center,
the Department of Athletics, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for the University  M usical Society.............................................. 20,000
Anthony Dolce, Mountainside, New Jersey
for the Linda Dolce Scleroderma Research Fund in the Medical School.................50,000
Robert J. Donia, La Jolla, California
200 shares of Merrill Lynch and Company, Inc., common stock
for the Southeast European Studies Endowment Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 10,473
Carolyn L. Donigan Private Foundation, Wilmington, Delaware
for the Frank A. Lamberson Distinguished Lecture in Otorhinolaryngology in
the  M edical  School........................................................... 10,000
Rory E. Dunkel, Essexville
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 10,000
Robert L. Estes, Nashville, Tennessee
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School....................... 10,000
Exxon Mobil Corporation, Irving, Texas
for chemical engineering and other support in the College of Engineering and
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.............................. 25,500
Eleanor Foote Estate
for the Marvin W. Foote Scholarship Endowment Fund in the Law School..............200,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in the University Hospitals......................................... 15,000
Forest Health Services, LLC, Ypsilanti
for the University Musical Society............................................ 95,000
Foundation for Digestive Health and Nutrition, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School............................................ 17,500
Lewis J. Frankfort, Tenafly, New Jersey
1,403 shares of Coach, Inc., common stock
for scholarships in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business......................... 60,013
J. L. Frenchx Family Foundation, Sheboygan, Wisconsin
for the Jeanna French Nurse Scientist Fund in the School of Nursing...................25,000


126




Fuji Electric Systems Company, Ltd., Hino-City, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering...................................... 30,000
Fujisawa Healthc~are, Inc., Deerfield, Illinois
for sup port in the Medical School............................................ 10,000
Bery1 T. Galaway Estate
for scholarships in the Sctool of Information................................... 81,948
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for researc'h and support in the College of Engineering and
the Transportation Research Institute.......................................... 80,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for scholarships in the College of Engineering and
for employee matching gifts................................................ 25,900
GlaxoSmithKiine, Researc~h Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School............................................ 50000
Guidant Foundation, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for support in the Medical School............................................ 30,000
William J. Halliday, Jr., Grand Rapids
1.7,450 various corporate common stock
for the William and Lois Halliday Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for
the ultimate benefit of the Law Sctool's William J. And
Lois S. Halliday Moot Courtroom in the Law School............................ 442,813
Richard G. Han~sen. Trust
-for the University of Mic'higan Club of Grand Rapids Athletic Sc'holarship Fund in.
the Department of Athletics................................................. 10,255
Andrew Heiberger, New York, New York
for the Robyn and Andrew Heiberger Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 30,000
Lee H. Hess, Columbus., Ohio
for the Friends of the Exhibit Museum of Natural History........................... 10,000
William and, Flora Hewlett Foundation,, Menlo Park, California
for support in the School of Public Health...................................... 50000
Ruth B. Hoyt Estate
for the William A. Paton Scholarship in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business........ 100,000
Instrumentation Laboratory, Lexington, Massactusetts
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 10,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in. the College of Engineering and
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business....................................... 30,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for employee matching gifts................................................ 10,500
James R. Irwin, Ann Arbor
for support in the School. of Music'..................................1.0,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, Skillman, Newv Jersey
for employee matching gifts................................................ 13,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for researc'h in the Medical School and the Sctool of Public Health................... 92300
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for WUOM............................................................ 100,000
JSI, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Public Health...................................... 15,000
Judaic Studies Foundation for the Univ~ersity of Michigan Chair of Rabbinic Studies,
United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in Rabbinic Literature in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 76,300
Judaic Studies Suppor Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judaic Studies Development Fund in
JueIle Iabetes1 FoundationIntrnational, New York, NewYor


127




for support in the School of Music and.
for the S. J. Axeirod and, Eugene Feingold. Scholarship in the School of Public Health....13,48'2
Leukemnia and Lymphoma Society, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................ 85,753
Leukemia Research Foundation, Skokie, Illinois
for research in the Medical Sctool............................................ 15,000
LUJ/DPi_ Family Partners, LTD, Keego Harbor
for the Women's Cross Countr Gift Fund in. the Department of Athletics.............. 20,000
William C. Martin, Ann Arbor
for support at the University of Michigan...................................... 25,000
Masco Corporation, Taylor
for _WUOM and
for employee matching gifts................................................I1.2,600
Richard N. Maskell, Hampshire, Illinois
6,254 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Richard and Odette Maskell Fund in the School of Art and Design.............. 118,386
Mar Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
23,500 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Kelsey Museum Expansion Project Fund............................... 1,004,488
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.................. 950,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, Saint Paul, Minnesota
for scholarships in the College of Engineering................................... 11,500
John C. and Sally S. Morley Family Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Harr H. Jones Endowment Fund in the Stephen M. Ross Sctool of Business......35,000
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering..................... 40,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation., Flint
for support in the Gerald R. Ford Sctool of Public Policy,
the College of Literature, Scienc~e, and the Arts, and
other support at the University of Michigan, and
for employee matching gifts................................................ 126,432
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical Sctool............................................ 45,000
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Grand Ledge
for research in the Medical School............................................ 18,000
Marvin L. Ni~ehuss Estate
for the Building Fund in the Lawv School....................................... 25,000
Tim O'Day, Hinsdale, Illinois
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............................. 50,000
William P. O'Neill, Washington, D. C.
for support in the Law School...............................................1.0,000
Donald A. Pallin, Harshaw., Wisconsin
3,800 shares of Delta & Pine Land Company common stock
for the Donald and Nancy Pallin Charitable Remainder Trust Fund for
the ultimate benefit of the Pallin Fellowship in.
the School of Natural Resourc'es and Environment............................... 103,702
Erika, 0. Parker, Evanston., Illinois
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............................. 10,000
Pepsi-Cola Company, Somers, Nexv York
for scholarships in the Department of Athletic's.................................. 50,000
Pfizer., Inc., New York, New York
for fellowships in the College of Pharmacy..................................... 59,000
Maxine H. Pierpont Estate
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarship Fund in
the Stephen. M. Ross School. of Business...................159,839


128




November Meeting, 2004


John 0. Robertson, Melbourne, Florida
for the John 0. Robertson Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Ruth Lobdell. Scholarship Fund at the University of Mic'higan..................... 20,000
Bruce S. Rosenblatt, Woodcliff Lake., New Jersey
for the Rosenblatt Endowment Fund in the College of Engineering.................... 15,000
Sandia National Laboratories, Albuquerque, New Mexico
for electrical and computer engineering scholarships in the College of Engineering........ 50,000
Will. and Barbara Scott Fund of the Fidelity Inv~estment Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............................. 10,000
Shirley K. Schlafer Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the research in the Comprehensiv~e Cancer Center in memor of Charles Baten and.
for research in the Medical School............................................19,500
Seidman Family Foundation., Albuquerque, New Mexico
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.................. 30,000
Richard S. Shafer, Ann Arbor
for the Richard S. Shafer Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Education................................................... 10000
Robert J. Sheehy, Edina, Minnesota
for the Dean's Sc~holarship Fund in the Medical School in memory of Harold Oberman and
for support in the School of Public Health......................................10,100
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for the Donald R. Shepherd Graduate Coaching Fellowship in the Department of Athletics and
-for the Athletic Bands Fund and the Elbel Club Marching Band Fund in
the School of Music......................................................55,000
Edwin and Ruth Shoemaker Foundation, Monroe
for support in the University Hospitals......................................... 10,000
George and Ruth. Stead Estate
for support in the School of Dentistr......................................... 154,858
Nanc~y Stryker, Ann Arbor
2,286 share of Stryker Corporation common stock
for the Nancy Stryker Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Sc'hool of Nursing.................................................... 100,035
Diane C. Swonk, Evanston., Illinois
for economics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,000
William D. Tibbetts Trust
for the William D. Tibbetts Fund in the College of Engineering..................... 214,551
Toyota Motor Manufacturing North America, Inc., Erlanger, Kentu'k-y
for support in the Transportation Research Institute............................... 20,000
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc., Torrance, California
for the Toyota MBA Fellowship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business........ 10,000
United Therapeutics Corporation, Silver Spring, Maryland
for research. in the Medic~al School............................33,000
University of Michigan Club of San Diego, San Diego, California,
for the Univ~ersity of Michigan Club of San Diego Scholarship at
the University of Michigan................................................. 10,084
Joan C. Walsh, Midland
for the Anne M. Walsh Nursing Sc~holarship in the Sc~hool of Nursing................. 10,500
Whitney Fund, Detroit
for the University Musical Society............................................ 30,000
Joseph D. Williams, Bernardsville, New Jersey
1,761 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for the Joseph D. Williams Sc~holarship Fund in the College of Pharmacy............... 49,484
Joan D. Willson, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania,
for the J. Robert Willson Professorship in Obstetric's in the Medical ScThool............ 172,528
Elizabeth Wright, Farmington Hills
for the Elizabeth Benson Wright Scholarship Fund in
David-G.1Zick, BlomIeld HIlls.  -1,-  11 XfXf


129




November M/eeting, 2004


Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:


Howard and Nina Dodge Abrams Philanthropic
Fund of the United Jewish Foundation of
Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
Tena W. Achen, Ann Arbor
Terence E. Adderley, La Jolla, California
Margaret E. Barr Bigelow, Sidney, Canada
Philip M. Binkow, Atlanta, Georgia
Rebecca Anne Boylan, Ann Arbor
Calvin College, Grand Rapids
Wendy Will Case Cancer Fund, Inc., Chicago,
Illinois
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan,
Southfield
Colgate-Palmolive Company, New York, New
York
Daura Foundation, Athens, Georgia
Richard and Helen DeVos Foundation, Grand
Rapids
Elizabeth B. Dexter, Ann Arbor
John Steuer Dobson, Ann Arbor
W. B. Doner & Company, Southfield
Dr. Jim's Golf Classic, Utica
Edward W. Elliott, Jr., Deerfield, Illinois
James D. Emerson, Fresno, California
Peter G. Fitzgerald, McLean, Virginia
Peter B. Fletcher Living Trust, Ypsilanti
Foundation Fighting Blindness, Owings Mills,
Maryland
Jean H. Gerende Estate
Roger A. Goldman Philanthropic Fund of the
Jewish Communal Fund, New York, New York
Anne D. Green, Los Altos, California
Jack E. Hill, Venice, Florida
Myrl H. Hucker, Midland, Texas
Jewish Federation of Washtenaw County, Ann
Arbor
John F. Joity, Houston, Texas
K & M Media, Clarkston
Robert P. Kelch, Ann Arbor
Marion Hrebek Keys Trust
Lang-Mekra North America, Ridgeway, South
Carolina
Terry S. Latanich, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey


Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory,
Livermore, California
John L. Marakas, Columbus, Ohio
Marsh U. S., Hoboken, New Jersey
Margaret B. Pittman-Hadley Revocable Living
Trust
Ray T. McCullough, Pasadena, California
Mcllhenny Company, Avery Island, Lousiana
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Dexter
Medtronic, Memphis, Tennessee
Marion E. Mills Trust
James N. Morgan Fund of the Community
Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
Michael H. Morris Fund of the Schwabb Fund for
Charitable Giving, San Francisco, California
MSX International, Inc., Southfield
Diane E. Namm-Schirtzer, Malibu, California
Richard D. O'Connor, Bloomfield Hills
Oracle Corporation, Rocklin, California
Donald J. Plowman, Flint
PPG Industries, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
PSP Ventures, LLC, Bingham Farms
John H. Roberts, Grosse Pointe Farms
Paul D. Rubin, Sudbury, Massachusetts
Marc I. Sachs, Tampa, Florida
Siemens Automotive Corporation, Auburn Hills
Susan D. Slaughter Trust
William P. Sommers, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
Sunglo Restoration Services, Inc., Dearborn
Heights
Richard F. Towner Trust
Dana L. Trier, New York, New York
Truck-Lite Company, Inc., Falconer, New York
U.S. Field Hockey Association, Inc., Colorado
Springs
UNOCAL Foundation, El Segundo, California
Dona P. Venne, Plymouth
Visteon, Livonia
Christopher Waterhouse Benefit, Shelby Township
John R. Wheeler, Chelsea
Thomas L. Wiese, Dallas, Texas
Yamatake Corporation, Fujisawa-shi, Japan


The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Alro Steel Corporation, Jackson
steel for building the Academic Center Project for the Department of Athletics
Keith B. Hook, Bloomfield, Connecticut
military archive of Keith B. Hook consisting of manuscripts and memoranda for the Clements
Library
Intel Corporation, Santa Clara, California
10 Cascades Servers and 16 Foster Servers for the College of Engineering
Janice B. Longone, Ann Arbor
two cookbooks first published by African Americans in the United States and other culinary
materials for the Clements Library
Lutron, Coopersburg, Pennsylvania
a Lutron Grafix 7000 Lighting Control system for the College of Engineering
McCausey Lumber Company, Roseville
twelve 4x32x80 Modulan 250#2 and 9 6x20x80 Modulan 250#2 for the College of Engineering
Walter M. Spink, Ann Arbor
indian marble sculpture of a Jain goddess for the Museum of Art


130




November Meeting, 2004


Marguerite Swain, Arlington, Massachusetts
a large collection of books, serials, and other related material relating to shorthand for the
University Library
Phoebe P. Swain, Amherst, New York
important historical collection of letters and other materials of the Tousard family during the
American Revolution for the Clements Library
UGS PLM Solutions, Maryland Heights, Missouri
JTOpen software and 20 site licenses for the College of Engineering
Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions.
He called attention to the appointment of Carol J. Boyd as director of the Institute for
Research on Women and Gender and on the reappointments of John King and Bryan
Rogers as deans, respectively, of the School of Information and School of Art and
Design.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Grzymala-Busse, Anna M., Associate Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1, 2005
Miller, Kevin F., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, and Professor of Psychology,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2005
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Franceschi, Renny T., Associate Dean for Research, School of Dentistry, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
King, John L., Dean, School of Information, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2010
Rogers, Bryan L., Dean, School of Art and Design, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2010
Sengupta, Subrata, Dean, UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science,
July 1, 2005-June 30, 2010
Weiss, Janet A., Associate Provost for Academic Affairs, Office of the Provost and Executive Vice
President for Academic Affairs, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2009
Woolfolk, Marilyn P., Assistant Dean for Student Services, School of Dentistry,
October 1, 2004-September 30, 2009
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Albers, James W., Professor of Occupational Medicine, without tenure, School of Public Health,
Professor of Neurology in the Department of Neurology, with tenure, Professor of Neurology in
the Department of Psychiatry, without tenure, and Professor of Neurology in the Deparment of
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitiation, without tenure, Medical School, also appointed Assistant
Dean for Instructional Faculty, Medical School, December 1, 2004
Boyd, Carol, Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, and Professor of Women's Studies,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Director, Institute for
Research on Women and Gender, Office of the Vice President for Research,
January 1, 2005-August 31, 2008
Maio, Ronald F., Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, without tenure, School of Public Health,
and Professor of Emergency Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed Assistant Dean
for Research Regulatory Affairs, Medical School, November, 18, 2004
Moreiras-Menor, Cristina, Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, with tenure, also
appointed Associate Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2005
Muraszko, Karin M., Professor of Neurosurgery, with tenure, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, without tenure, and Professor of Surgery, without tenure, also appointed Chair,
Department of Neurosurgery, Medical School, January 1, 2005
Reece, James S., from Ford Motor Company Co-Director of the Joel D. Tauber Manufacturing Institute
and Professor of Accounting and Operations Management, with tenure, to the Goff Smith


131




November Meeting, 2004


Co-Director of the Joel D. Tauber Manufacturing Institute and Professor of Accounting and
Operations Management, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1-May 31, 2005
Lott, John W., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, leave
of absence extended
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Renaming Existing Collegiate Professorshis
William A. Brownell Collegiate Professorship in Education, School of Education, November 1, 2004
Margaret J. Hunter Collegiate Professorship in the Life Sciences, Medical School, November 1, 2004
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointment to a Named Professorship
MacDonald, Michael P., Richard Hudson Research Professor of History, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1, 2005-May 31, 2005
Apvointment to a Colle iate Professorshi
Rowan, Brian P., Burke A. Hinsdale Collegiate Professor in Education, School of Education,
November 1, 2004-October 31, 2009
Reappointtent to an Endowed ProLessorship
Pollock, Stephen M., Herrick Professor of Manufacturing, College of Engineering,
January 1, 2005-May 31, 2005
Other Transactions
Zimmerman, Marc A., from Interim Co-Chair to Chair, Department of Health Behavior and Health
Education, School of Public Health, January 1, 2005-December 31, 2007
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on October 1, 2004-September 30, 2005
Clements Librar Associates Board of Governors
Axe, John R., reappointed, retroactive
Booth, John L., II, reappointed, retroactive
Dance, William H., reappointed, retroactive
Diedrich, Duane N., reappointed, retroactive
Dufek, Candace, reappointed, retroactive
Dziuszko, Thomas M., reappointed, retroactive
Earle, William G., reappointed, retroactive
Eisendrath, Charles R., reappointed, retroactive
Erwin, Elizabeth C., reappointed, retroactive
Finkenstaedt, William C., Jr., reappointed, retroactive
Fox, John L., reappointed, retroactive
Goss, James, reappointed, retroactive
Heydon, Peter N., reappointed, retroactive
Hook, Keith B., reappointed, retroactive
Hudson, Joseph L., IV, new appointment, retroactive
Irwin, James R., reappointed, retroactive
Kennedy, Sally, reappointed, retroactive
Kingsley, Thomas, reappointed, retroactive
Klancnik, James M., reappointed, retroactive
Liebman, Thomas C., reappointed, retroactive


132




November M/eeting, 2004


Lowenhaupt, Charles, reappointed, retroactive
Mason, Philip P., reappointed, retroactive
Mueller, Janet, reappointed, retroactive
Peslar, Drew, reappointed, retroactive
Pohrt, Richard A., reappointed, retroactive
Price, Jacob M., reappointed, retroactive
Schoff, Joanna, reappointed, retroactive
Schoonhoven, Anne Marie, reappointed, retroactive
Seger, Martha R., reappointed, retroactive
Shapiro, Harold T., reappointed, retroactive
Shy, Arlene P, new appointment, retroactive
Taylor, Anna Diggs, new appointment, retroactive
Thompson, Bradley L., II, reappointed, retroactive
Upton, David, reappointed, retroactive
Walters, David B., reappointed, retroactive
Wheeler, John D., reappointed, retroactive
Winkelman, Margaret W., reappointed
Wolf, Clarence, reappointed, retroactive
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted the following personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Auletti, Toni Y., M.F.A., Lecturer in Theatre and Drama, School of Music, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Backer, David A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Beebe-Dimmer, Jennifer, Lecturer in Epidemiology, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Booth, Victoria, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Castro, Christi-Anne, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Music, School of Music, January 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Clark, George W., M.S.W., Lecturer in Social Work, School of Social Work, August 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Coffin, Christopher C., B.S., Lecturer in Chemistry, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Duquaine, Kenneth R., Ph.D., Lecturer in Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Eckleberry-Hunt, Jodie, Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Fernando, Lara L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, September 2, 2004-May 31, 2008
Fletcher, Linda L., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Gallogly, Lorna M., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1-December 31, 2004
Gray, Kimberly A., B.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Hanauer, David, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
October 12, 2004-August 31, 2005
Hauptman, Jonas A., M.F.A., Lecturer in Art and Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Hesseltine, Elizabeth A., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Hsu, Ao-Lin, Ph.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
October 1, 2004-September 30, 2005
Kuester, Oliva, M.S.W., Lecturer in Social Work, School of Social Work, August 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Leshchinskaya, Ida M., Lecturer in Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Peinhardt, Clint W., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Peterson, Stacy L., M.S.W., Lecturer in Social Work, School of Social Work, August 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Petrak, Samantha A., M.A., Lecturer in Spanish, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Pokorski, Philip L., Ph.D., Lecturer in Biology, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Price, Jeffrey M., M.M., Lecturer in Music, UM-Dearborn College of Arts and Sciences, September
1-December 31, 2004


133




November Meeting, 2004


Prisciandaro, Joann I., Ph.D., Clinical Instructor in Radiation Oncology, Medical School,
October 1, 2004-September 30, 2005
Raymond, Delbert M., III, Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1-December 31, 2004
Robbins, Lorraine B., M.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1-December 31, 2004
Rosen, Allison B., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2011
Sarkar, Sujata, M.S., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
October 1, 2004-September 30, 2005
Silver, Michael S., M.A., Lecturer in Architecture and Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Southard, Sarah H., M.M., Lecturer in Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Stepien, Marissa, M.A., Lecturer in Spanish, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Stewart, Vlenaetha M., Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Cotton, Erica L., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
(previously reported as Lecturer in Radiology)
Fazzalari, Frank L., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 6, 2004-July 5,
2005 (previously reported as Clinical Lecturer in Surgery)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TtANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Burstein Ezra, from Clinical Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
October 1, 2004-September 30, 2011
Cibrik, Diane M., from Clinical Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School, August 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Eibschitz-Tsimhoni, Maya, from Clinical Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual
Sciences, Medical School, October 14, 2004-June 30, 2005
Kurnit, David M., from Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, and Professor
of Human Genetics, without tenure, to Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with
tenure, Medical School, September 1, 2004
Mosher, Bryan D., from Assistant Professor of Mathematics to Lecturer III in Mathematics and Lecturer
III in Comprehensive Studies Program, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Patton, Susana R., from Clinical Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School, October 1, 2004-September 6, 2005
Rossman, Carol L., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Nursing, UM-Dearborn
School of Health Professions and Studies, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Segal, Jonathan H., from Clinical Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Tsai, Wan C., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School, September 10, 2004-Auust 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUSiA FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Burkel, William E., Professor Emeritus of Anatomical Sciences, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Castelli, Walter A., Professor Emeritus of Cell and Developmental Biology, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Christensen, A. Kent, Professor Emeritus of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Das, Sunil K., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Fajans, Stefan S. Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005


134




November M/eeting, 2004


Jourdian, George W., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine and Professor of Emeritus of Biological
Chemistry, Medical School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Marans, Robert W., Professor Emeritus of Architecture and Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College
of Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Newman, Sarah W., Professor Emerita of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Romani, John, Professor Emeritus of Public Health Administration, School of Public Health, and
Professor Emeritus of Environment, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Solomon, William R., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
October 1, 2004-September 30, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Agnew, Vanessa H., Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-December 31, 2005
Babayan, Kathryn, Associate Professor of Iranian History and Culture, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, outside teaching leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Ball, Deborah L., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, duty off campus,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Baxter, William H., III, Associate Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, Department of Asian
Languages and Cultures, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Chinese Language and Literature,
Program in Linguistics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, extended sick
leave, September 22-Decmeber 31, 2004
Bayou, Mohamed E., Professor of Accounting, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
sabbatical leave, January 1, 2005-April 30, 2005
Bernstein, Dennis S., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Binetti, Vincenzo A., Associate Professor of Italian, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Biro, Matthew N., Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, and Associate Professor of History
of Art, Residential College, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Blackman, Stephen A., Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
personal leave, September 27-October 8, 2004, January 14-28, 2005, and February 22-25, 2005
Canning, Kathleen M., Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004, and
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Chaffin, Don B., Richard G. Snyder Distinguished University Professor of Industrial and Operations
Engineering, G. Lawton and Louise G. Johnson Professor Engineering, Professor of Industrial and
Operations Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure,
College of Engineering, and Professor of Occupational Health, without tenure, School of Public
Health, retirement furlough, January 1, 2005-July 1, 2006
Coward, James K., Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, and Professor
of Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, administrative leave,
September 1, 2004-March 14, 2005, and sabbatical leave, March 15-August 31, 2005
Delbanco, Nicholas F., Robert Frost Collegiate Professor of English Language and Literature and
Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Feeley-Harnik, Gillian, Kathleen Gough Collegiate Professor of Anthropology and Professor of
Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Gaines, Kevin K., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Afro-American and African Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Goldman, Rachel S., Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2005
Graham-Bermann, Sandra A., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of Women's Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Gregerson, Linda K., Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor and Professor of English, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2004


135




November Meeting, 2004


Guck, Marion A., Louise Cuyler Collegiate Professor of Music and Professor of Music, with tenure,
School of Music, outside teaching leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Herbert, Sharon C., Professor of Classical Archaeology and Greek, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Keyserling, William M., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, and Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, without tenure, School of Public
Health, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Knysh, Alexander D., Professor of Islamic Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Leichtman, Alan B., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2004-February 28, 2005
Parsons, Marilee B., Associate Professor of Biology and Biochemistry, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Rolston, Nancy L., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, military leave, January 5-22, 2005
Schmidt, Brian B., Associate Professor of Hebrew Bible, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Shammas, Anton, Professor of Middle East Literature, Program in Comparative Literature, with tenure,
and Professor of Middle East Literature, Department of Near Eastern Studies, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Shevrin, Howard, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor of Psychology,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough,
December 15, 2004-December 14, 2005
Squires, Catherine R., Assistant Professor of Communication Studies and Assistant Professor of
Afro-American and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Stillman, Amy K., Associate Professor of American Culture, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Stixrude, Lars P., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Tarle, Gregory, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Tesar, Linda L., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Thomas, Charles B., Jr., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Thornton, Leslie J., II, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of
Education, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Tinkle, Theresa L., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Turits, Richard L., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Afro-American and African Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Udow, Michael W., Professor of Music (Percussion), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2005
Vandermeer, John H., Margaret Davis Collegiate Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and
Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, without tenure, College of Natural
Resources and Environment, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Washabaugh, Peter D., Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Wilson, Robin M., Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2005
Yaeger, Patricia S., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of
Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2004
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Bhise, Rekha V., Lecturer in Medical School Administration, Medical School, July 31, 2004
Bohdiewicz, Paul J., Clinical Associate Professor of Radiology, Medical School, September 3, 2004
Fay, William P., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, October 31, 2004


136




November M/eeting, 2004


Jayawardhana, Ray, Assistant Professor of Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
McDonagh, Kevin T., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School,
September 30, 2004
Nettles, Arie L., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, August 31, 2004
Rebeiz, Gabriel M., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, December 31, 2004
Robens, Cornelius, Clinical Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, September 30, 2004
Solomon, Richard, Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, October 8, 2004
Uberti, Joseph P., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, October 15, 2004
Young, Jennifer L., Clinical Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, September 30, 2004
Retired
Julius, Stevo, Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor of Hypertension, Professor of Internal Medicine, with
tenure, and Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, without tenure, Medical School,
January 14, 2005
Lindsay, Robert K., Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2004
Terin Comieted
Attia, Sandy F., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, May 31, 2004
Benham, Kevin J., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, May 31, 2004
Bullock, Esther S., Lecturer in Foreign Language, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, April 30, 2004
Bulman, Luke T., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, May 31, 2004
Epstein, Shifra, Lecturer I in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2004
Hay, Jesse C., Assistant Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, November 30, 2004
Hilton, Louis R., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services,
August 31, 2004
Hughes, Dennis P., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, August 31, 2004
Katagiri, Yoko, Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2004
Kawakami, Kiyomi, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 2004
Santillan-Grimm, Paula, Lecturer I in the Residential College and Lecturer I in Near Eastern Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2004
Synnes, Kristine, Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, May 31, 2004
Turner, Michelle M., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2004
van Schaaik, Gerdines J., Lecturer II in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2004
Weston, Mark W., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, May 31, 2004
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted one faculty retirement
memoir.
Robert K. Lindsay, Ph.D., professor of psychology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts; research professor in psychiatry in the Medical School; and
research professor in the Mental Health Research Institute, retired from active faculty
status on August 31, 2004.
Professor Lindsay received his B.S. (1956) and Ph.D. (1961) degrees from the
Carnegie Institute of Technology (now Carnegie Mellon University) and his M.A.
degree (1957) from Columbia University. From 1960-65 he was on the faculty of the
University of Texas. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as associate
professor and research psychologist in 1965 and was appointed research psychologist in
the Mental Health Research Institute in 1967. He was promoted to research scientist in


137




November Meeting, 2004


1974, senior research scientist in 1997, professor in 2001, and research professor in
2003. He was also associated with the University's Artificial Intelligence Laboratory
and the Center for the Study of Complex Systems.
Since the inception of the field of artificial intelligence, Professor Lindsay has
made significant contributions, including extensive review and critical analysis of the
field. Early in his career, he modeled the understanding of utterances to help define and
solve the problems computers have with understanding natural language--a significant
departure from the statistical and syntactical approaches to language processing at the
time. Professor Lindsay contributed to expert systems that endow computers with the
decision-making capabilities used by human experts, and he collaborated on the
DENDRAL project, one of the earliest expert systems and the defining contribution of
the field. He was a pioneer in diagrammatic reasoning; one of his key influences was
the use of inference by simulation as a basis for using diagrams to understand concepts
in mathematics. His recent research uses computer simulations of variations of genetic
algorithms to discover possible genetic mechanisms underlying the evolution of
complexity.
Professor Lindsay served as chair of SACUA's Committee on the Economic
Status of the Faculty, and he is a member of the SACUA Civil Liberties Board.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Robert K. Lindsay
professor emeritus of psychology, research professor emeritus in psychiatry, and
research professor emeritus in the Mental Health Research Institute.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported this month.
Degrees. President Coleman submitted for approval recommendations for two
honorary degree recipients: Elizabeth Eisenstein, Doctor of Humane Letters, and
Robert Moses, Doctor of Laws. Provost Courant submitted for approval the December
2004 doctoral degree list.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
The Regents then turned to consideration of the regular agenda. Regent White left
the meeting at this point, at about 4:00 p.m.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Orion European Real Estate Fund II, C.V.)
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to ~25.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio
to Orion European Real Estate Fund II, C.V., a European real estate fund.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Kayne Anderson Energy Fund III, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $20 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Kayne Anderson Energy Fund III, L.P., a private equity energy fund.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Lotus China Investments Partners, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $15 million from the Long Term Portfolio to Lotus
China Investment Partners, L.P., a private equity fund.


138




November Meeting, 2004


Alternative Asset Commitment (Longreach Capital Partners I)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to Yen 2.7 B from the Long Term Portfolio to
Longreach Capital Partners I, a private equity fund.
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Building Solid State Electronics Lab
Addition and Renovation Project
Mr. Paul Urbanek, vice president and director of design for Smithgroup, reviewed
the schematic design for the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Building Solid
State Electronics Lab addition. Mr. Urbanek displayed an aerial photograph of North
Campus showing the location of the new addition in relation to other buildings and a
photograph of the building indicating the location of the addition. He then displayed
schematics of each floor and described the activities that will take place in each area. He
showed a rendering of the exterior and noted that as part of the redevelopment of the
entrance area, people will be able to view the activities taking place in the clean room
from outside of the room.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the schematic design for the Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science Building-Solid State Electronics Lab Addition and Renovation
Project as presented at the meeting.
Hill Dining Center Project
Executive Vice President Slottow indicated that this project is one of the first major
capital projects to be implemented as part of the Residential Life Initiative ("RLI"). He
announced that the State Fire Marshall's office had sent a letter praising the University for
the ongoing fire safety and life safety upgrades that are also part of the RLI.
The exact location of the Hill Dining Center Project will be determined once the
architect has been appointed. The schematic design is scheduled to be presented to the
Regents in April 2005.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the Hill Dining Center Project as described in the Regents
Communication and authorized commissioning Goody Clancy & Associates for its
design.
E.H. Kraus Building Room Renovations
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved a project to renovate Rooms 1003, 1009, and 1012A in the E.H.
Kraus Building, as described in the Regents Communication.
Dental Building and W.K. Kellogg Institute Third Floor Renovations
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Dental Building and W.K. Kellogg Institute Third Floor
Renovations Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.


139




November Meeting, 2004


Refinancing of a Portion of the Commercial Paper and Prior Bond Issues, and
Financing of New Projects
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of the resolution (see appendix A on page 145)
authorizing the executive vice president and chief financial officer or the associate vice
president for finance or treasurer to:
* Develop the terms, and negotiate and execute the legal documentation for
the financing with the assistance of the underwriter and outside legal
counsel.
* Obtain and approve a final proposal for the bonds.
* Obtain and accept a final proposal for any "swaps" and any liquidity
requirements for the University's variable rate debt, and execute and deliver
the required documentation for the transaction.
Financing  of the University  of Michigan   Hospitals and  Health  Centers
Cardiovascular Center Project - Phase I and Related Projects
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of the resolution (see appendix B on page 151)
authorizing the executive vice president and chief financial officer or the associate vice
president for finance or treasurer to:
* Develop the terms, and negotiate and execute the legal documentation for
the financing with the assistance of the underwriter and outside legal
counsel.
* Obtain and approve a final proposal for the bonds.
* Obtain and accept a final proposal for any "swaps" and any liquidity
requirements for the University's variable rate debt, and execute and deliver
the required documentation for the transaction.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) University
Hospitals Pharmacy Services Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) University Hospital Pharmacy Services Renovation Project as described and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that
bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Rachel Upjohn
Building
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) Rachel Upjohn Building for bids and awarding construction, contracts
providing that bids are within the approved budget.


140




November Meeting, 2004


University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) University
Hospital Exterior Weatherproofing Project
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) University Hospital Exterior Weatherproofing Project as described and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts providing that
bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan-Flint Student Housing Facility
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that a developer-partner is being sought to
design, construct, furnish, and manage an on-campus student housing apartment facility of
approximately 240-300 beds on the Flint campus. The request for proposal will be issued
to identify potential terms, conditions, and financial feasibility. On a motion by Regent
Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the
University of Michigan-Flint Student Housing Facility Project as described and
authorized issuing the request for proposal.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes 7 conflict of interest items,
each of which requires 6 votes for approval. On a motion by Regent Richner, seconded
by Regent Maynard, all six Regents present unanimously approved each of the following
items:
Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and Innovational
Therapeutics, Inc.
The Regents approved an option agreement enabling Innovational Therapeutics,
Inc., to further develop a device developed by Dr. Nasser Razack ("A Novel Device for
the Endovascular Treatment of Intracranial Aneurysms," UM File No. 2779).
Innovational Therapeutics, Inc., was co-founded by Dr. Razack and Ewen Nichol.
Because Nasser Razack and Ewen Nichol are University of Michigan employees and also
hold an equity interest in Innovational Therapeutics, this agreement falls under the State
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan
("MICHIGAN") and Innovational Therapeutics, Inc.
2.   Option terms include use in the fields of interventional radiology, endovascular
surgery, cardiology and other therapeutic fields involving minimally invasive
procedures. Innovational Therapeutics, Inc., is granted exclusive rights for 12 months
to exercise the option to negotiate license of patent rights. Innovational Therapeutics,
Inc., will pay an up front fee to the University. The parties will negotiate the terms of
a license agreement after exercise of the option.
In order to exercise its option to negotiate a license agreement with the University,
Innovational Therapeutics, Inc., must demonstrate: i) an identified and committed,
experienced and capable management team; ii) an appropriate commercialization
strategy, and iii) a capitalization plan indicating sufficient access to capital to enable
the commercialization plan to be executed. Innovational Therapeutics, Inc., shall
receive a limited license that will enable the company to evaluate the technology
through research and development.  Standard disclaimers of warrantees and
indemnification apply.


141




Noveme~uber  M~eet~ing, 2004


The University will retain ownership of the technology and optioned patent rights and
may continue to further develop it and use it for research and academic purposes. No
use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is
obligated or contemplated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Dr. Razack and Mr. Nichol arise from their ownership
interest in Innovational Therapeutics, Inc. Pursuant to University policy, Dr. Razack
will waive any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the
University from the company.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Triana, LLC
The Regents approved a license agreement with Triana, LLC, for the following files:
"Protein Mapping" (UM File No. 1836), "Protein Mapping" (UM File No. 1836C1), and
"Multidimensional Protein Separation System" (UM File No. 2358). Because Drs. Samir
Hanash and Gilbert Omenn are University of Michigan employees and also hold an equity
interest in Triana, LLC, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Triana,
LLC.
2.   The terms of the license agreement include use in the areas of instrumentation and
techniques for the multi-dimensional fractionation and mapping of protein or peptide
mixtures based on the protein or peptide charge, hydrophobicity, or molecular weight
in chromatography and/or mass spectroscopy applications. Triana will pay a license
fee upon execution of the agreement and will pay a royalty on its net sales and a
percentage of all revenue received from sublicenses. Triana will also pay annual
minimum royalties throughout the life of the agreement.
This agreement grants exclusive patent rights covering UM File No. 2358 and
non-exclusive patent rights covering UM File Nos. 1836 and 1836C1. Triana will pay
all ongoing patent costs during the license. Specific product, business, and
capitalization milestones must be met in order to maintain the rights granted by the
license.
The University will retain ownership of the technology and optioned patent rights and
may continue to further develop it and use it for research and academic purposes. No
use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is
obligated or contemplated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Hanash and Omenn arise from their ownership interest
in Triana, LLC. Dr. Hanash has waived any personal participation in the sharing of
revenue received by the University from the company, and Dr. Omenn is not an
inventor on any of the licensed files.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and McCreadie Group, Inc.
The Regents approved a license agreement with McCreadie Group, Inc., for the use
of PharmDoc.net software (OTT File No. 2786). Because Scott McCreadie and Barbara
McCreadie are University of Michigan employees and founders of McCreadie Group,
Inc., this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and McCreadie
Group, Inc.
2.   The terms of the license include an up-front license issue fee and royalty on sales. The
University will retain ownership of the licensed software technology and may continue
to further develop it and use it internally. No use of University services or facilities,
nor any assignment of University employees, is obligated or contemplated under the
agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees and indemnification apply, and the
contract may be amended by consent of the parties.


142




November M/eeting, 2004


3.   The pecuniary interests of Mr. McCreadie and Ms. McCreadie arise from their
ownership interest in McCreadie Group, Inc. Mr. McCreadie has waived any personal
participation in the sharing of revenue received by the University from the company as
required by University policy.
Option and License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Neural
Intervention Technologies (NIT)
The Regents approved an option and license agreement with Neural Intervention
Technologies (NIT) for "Hydrogels and water soluble polymeric carriers for drug
delivery" (UM File Nos. 1622 and 1622dl) and "Controlled growth factor release from
synthetic extracellular matrices by mechanical signaling" (UM File No. 1985). Because
Dr. Daryl Kipke is a University of Michigan employee and partial owner of NIT, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan Neural
Intervention Technologies.
2.   The option terms include use for vascular treatment applications for 12 months. NIT
will pay an option fee and patent costs during the term of the option.
The license terms include use for vascular treatment applications with an exclusive,
worldwide grant and the right to grant sublicenses for the life of the patents. NIT will
pay royalty on net sales and 30% of any revenue not based on net sales, 50% of
historic patent costs within 1 year, and an exercise payment of $20,000 due within 30
days.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Dr. Kipke arises from his ownership interest in NIT. Dr.
Kipke has not waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by
the University from the company since he is not an inventor for the above stated
technologies.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Opteos, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with Opteos, Inc., to support
research   entitled  "Miniaturized    Electro/Magneto-Optic     Sampling    Probes    for
Broadband-RF-Sensing     Applications."    Because   Drs. John    Whitaker and    Kamal
Sarabandi are University of Michigan employees and also hold an equity interest in
Opteos, Inc., this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Opteos,
Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement include a total subcontract to the University of $30,000 for
the period September 1, 2004 through May 31, 2005. Since research agreements are
often amended, the agreement includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and
scope. University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and
additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Whitaker and Sarabandi arise from their ownership
interest in Opteos, Inc.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Neighborhood
Services Organization
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with Neighborhood Services, Inc.,
for the "Covering Michigan Kids and Families" initiative.         Because Dr. Richard
Lichtenstein is a University of Michigan employee and a member of the board of directors
of Neighborhood Services, Inc., this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict


143




November M/eeting, 2004


of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Neighborhood Services, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy. The
amount of the subcontract to the University is $35,000, and the period of performance
is six months (June 2, 2004 through November 30, 2004). Since research agreements
are often amended, the agreement includes provisions for changes in time, amount,
and scope. University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and
additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Dr. Lichtenstein arises from his membership on the board of
directors of Neighborhood Services, Inc.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Opteos, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with Opteos, Inc., for supporting
research entitled "Near-Field Probing of Magnetic-Field Signals with a Fiber-Coupled
Magneto-Optic Probe." Because Drs. John Whitaker and Kamal Sarabandi are University
of Michigan employees and also hold an equity interest in Opteos, Inc., this agreement
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information
is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Opteos,
Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement include a total subcontract to the University of $30,000 for
the period August 1, 2004 through January 31, 2005. Since research agreements are
often amended, the agreement includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and
scope. University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and
additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Whitaker and Sarabandi arise from their ownership
interest in Opteos, Inc.
Annual Operating Request to the State for the University of Michigan Ann Arbor
Campus for FY 2006
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the FY 2006 annual operating request to the state for the
University of Michigan Ann Arbor campus.
Annual Operating Request to the State for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Campus for FY 2006
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the FY 2006 annual operating request to the state for the
University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Annual Operating Request to the State for the University of Michigan-Flint
Campus for FY 2006
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the FY 2006 annual operating request to the state for the
University of Michigan-Flint.


144




November Meeting, 2004


University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Revision of the
Medical Staff Bylaws and Medical Staff Bylaws Supplement
Executive Vice President Kelch called attention to the summary statement
describing the revisions to the Medical Staff Bylaws and Medical Staff Bylaws
Supplement. He commented that they were driven by patient safety, quality of care
issues, and compliance issues, among other factors. He noted they had been approved by
a number of internal bodies.
Regent Brandon moved approval of the revisions to the Medical Staff Bylaws and
Medial Staff Bylaws Supplement, as submitted. Regent McGowan seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Clements Library Associates Board of Governors
Provost Courant stated that the Clements Library Associates Board of Governors
was seeking approval for increasing the number of active members and to revise the
authorization document to allow the board's officers to serve for a period of longer than a
year. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the following revised Clements Library Associates Authorization
Document (additions are underlined; deletions are crossed out).
Clements Library Associates Authorization Document
Membership: Membership in the Clements Library Associates shall be
extended to persons who indicate their interest in the purposes of the organization by
making such annual contribution as shall be determined by the Board of Governors.
Board of Governors: The direction of the Clements Library Associates shall
be entrusted to a Board of Governors consisting of the director of the Clements
Library, ex officio, or his designated representative; two members of the Committee of
Management, and such additional members from the general membership of the
Associates not exceeding twenty-seven fifty, as the Regents may from time to time
fix on the recommendation of the President after suggestions from the Board of
Governors. The members of the Board of Governors shall serve for one year, from
October 1 to September 30. They shall elect a chair and such other officers as needed
from their membership antnually. The Regents may also appoint, upon suggestions by
the Board of Governors and recommendation by the President, any number of
honorary members of the Board.
Funds: Funds contributed to the University of Michigan through the
Clements Library Associates for the purpose of the Associates shall, unless otherwise
specified by the donor, be placed in a trust fund to be designated the Clements Library
Associates Fund. The Clements Library Associates fund shall be expended at the
direction of the Board of Governors.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: Jacqueline Kuehn, staff member, regarding discrimination and violation of
patient confidentiality; Carol Dunitz, alumna, regarding her book, Louder Than Thunder;
Jim Mogensen, citizen, regarding the town-gown relationship; Bonnie Halloran, faculty
and member of the Lecturers' Employee Organization (LEO), regarding LEO contract
implementation; and Caroline Beslock Smith, alumna, Raymond Detter, alumnus and
chair of the DDA Citizen's Advisory Council, Christine Crockett, citizen and president of


145




November Meeting, 2004


the Old Fourth Ward Association, Susan Wineberg, alumna and member of the Ann
Arbor Historic District Commission, and Ellen Thackery, citizen and member of Historic
Preservation Network, all on the topic of the demolition of the Frieze Building.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 5:15 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for December 16, 2004.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretaryv of the University


146




NOVEMBER, 2004 - APPENDIX A
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF
GENERAL REVENUE BONDS AND PROVIDING FOR
OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") is a
constitutional body corporate established pursuant to Article VIII, Section 5 of the
Michigan Constitution of 1963, as amended, with general supervision of the University
of Michigan (the "University") and the control and direction of all expenditures from
the University's funds; and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties and in order to properly
serve the needs of students attending the University, the Issuer has authorized the
acquisition, construction, installation and equipping of the capital improvements
described in Exhibit A (collectively, the "Project"); and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously issued its General Revenue Bonds (the
"Outstanding Bonds"), in several series, and other obligations secured by a lien on
General Revenues, and has reserved the right to issue additional series of General
Revenue Bonds, secured on a parity basis with the Outstanding Bonds and other
obligations by General Revenues (as defined in Trust Agreements pursuant to which
the Outstanding Bonds were issued); and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously issued and has outstanding bonds, notes
or other obligations (collectively, the "Senior Lien Indebtedness") payable from and
secured by liens on certain revenue streams of the University, including Student Fees,
Housing System Revenues and Medical Service Plan Revenues (sometimes known as
Patient Care Revenues), and it may be appropriate and economic to refund all or a part
of the Senior Lien Indebtedness; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has issued and has outstanding Commercial Paper
Notes, Series F (the "Series F Notes"), and Series E (Taxable), (the "Series E Notes",
and together with the Series F Notes, the "Notes"), which are payable from and secured
by General Revenues and it may be appropriate and economic to refund all or a part of
the outstanding principal of the Series F Notes; and
WHEREAS, the financing of all or a portion of the Project and the refunding
of a portion of the Senior Lien Indebtedness and the Series F Notes through the
issuance of General Revenue Bonds will serve proper and appropriate public purposes;
and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties, and in order to control
and direct prudently expenditures from the University's funds, the Issuer determines it
is necessary and desirable to authorize the issuance of General Revenue Bonds (the
"Bonds") in order to provide funds which, together with other available funds, will be
used to pay all or part of the costs of the Project, the costs of refinancing a portion of
the Senior Lien Indebtedness and the Series F Notes, and costs incidental to the
issuance of the Bonds and the refinancing; and


147




November Meeting, 2004 - Appendix A


Remarketing Agreement (the "Remarketing Agreement") or a Broker Dealer
Agreement (the "Broker Dealer Agreement") with the Underwriter setting forth the
terms and conditions upon which the Underwriter will agree to purchase the Bonds and
the interest rates thereof and the purchase price therefor; and
WHEREAS, in order to be able to market the Bonds at the most opportune
time, it is necessary for the Issuer to authorize the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer, the Associate Vice President for Finance, and the Treasurer (each an
"Authorized Officer") or any one of them individually, to negotiate, execute and
deliver on behalf of the Issuer, the Trust Indenture, the Bond Purchase Agreement, the
Remarketing Agreement or Broker Dealer Agreement, and other related documents, to
establish the specific terms of the Bonds and to accept the offer of the Underwriter to
purchase the Bonds, all within the limitations set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has full power under its constitutional authority for
supervision of the University, and control and direction of expenditures from the
University funds, to acquire, construct, furnish and equip the Project, to pay all or a
portion of the costs of the Project and the costs of refinancing a portion of the Senior
Lien Indebtedness and the Series F Notes by issuance of the Bonds, and to pledge
General Revenues (as hereinafter defined) for payment of the Bonds;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:. Any Authorized Officer is authorized to determine (i) the specific amount of the cost of
each component of the Project to be financed from the proceeds of the Bonds, (ii) the
portion of the Series F Notes to be refinanced using the proceeds of the Bonds, and (iii) the
portion of the outstanding Senior Lien Indebtedness to be refinanced using the proceeds of
the Bonds, based on whether such refinancing would produce interest costs savings, more
favorable debt service schedules, or more flexible documentation, and to cause to be called
for redemption such of the Senior Lien Indebtedness as is appropriate and consistent with
the foregoing objectives. The Issuer may subsequently approve additional components of
the Project and specify that such additional components shall be financed in whole or in
part from the proceeds of the Bonds, upon which occurrence such components shall
thereupon become components of the Project hereunder.
2. The Issuer hereby authorizes the issuance, execution and delivery of the Bonds in one or
more series to be designated GENERAL REVENUE BONDS, with appropriate series
designations, if any, in the aggregate original principal amount to be established by an
Authorized Officer, but not to exceed the principal amount necessary to produce proceeds
of One Hundred Million Dollars ($100,000,000). The Bonds shall be dated as of the date or
dates established by an Authorized Officer, and shall be issued for the purpose of providing
funds which, together with other available funds, will be used to pay all or a portion of the
costs of the Project, all or a portion of the costs of refinancing a portion of the Series F
Notes, all or a portion of the costs of refinancing a portion of the Senior Lien Indebtedness
and the costs related to the issuance of the Bonds and the refinancing, including capitalized
interest, if any for such period as an Authorized Officer may determine appropriate, and
bond insurance premiums, if appropriate. The Bonds shall be serial Bonds or term Bonds,
which may be subject to redemption requirements, or both, as shall be established by an
Authorized Officer, but the first maturity shall be no earlier than April 1, 2005 and the last
maturity shall be no later than December 31, 2037. The Bonds may bear no interest or may
bear interest at stated fixed rates for the respective maturities thereof as shall be established
by an Authorized Officer, but the weighted average yield (computed using the stated
coupons and the stated original offering price) for the Bonds shall not exceed 6.5% per
annum, and the Bonds may be issued in whole or in part as capital appreciation bonds,
which for their term or any part thereof bear no interest but appreciate in principal amount
over time at compounded rates (not in excess of 7.0% per annum) to be determined by an
Authorized Officer. Alternatively, all or part of the Bonds may bear interest at a variable


148




November Meeting, 2004 - Appendix A


rate of interest for all or a portion of their term, and the variable rate of interest shall not
exceed the lesser of the maximum rate permitted by law or the maximum rate, if any, to be
specified in the Trust Indenture. In addition, all or part of the Bonds may be issued in
related series, one of which bears interest at a variable rate and one of which bears interest
at a residual rate determined by subtracting the variable rate from the fixed rate paid by the
Issuer, but the combined rate on such Bonds, taking the two related series together, which
shall be determined by an Authorized Officer, shall not exceed 7.0% per annum. The
Bonds may be subject to redemption or call for purchase prior to maturity at the times and
prices and in the manner as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but no
redemption premium shall exceed 3% of the principal amount being redeemed. Interest on
the Bonds shall be payable at such times as shall be specified by an Authorized Officer.
The Bonds shall be issued in fully registered form in denominations, shall be payable as to
principal and interest in the manner, shall be subject to transfer and exchange, and shall be
executed and authenticated, all as shall be provided in the Trust Indenture. The Bonds shall
be sold to the Underwriter pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement for a price to be
established by an Authorized Officer (but the Underwriter's discount, exclusive of original
issue discount, shall not exceed 0.7% of the principal amount thereof) plus accrued interest,
if any, from the dated date of the Bonds to the date of delivery thereof.
In relation to the debt service on the Bonds any of the Authorized Officers may, at any time,
on behalf of and as the act of the Issuer, enter into an interest rate swap, cap, forward
starting swap, option, swaption or similar agreement or agreements (collectively, the "Swap
Agreement") with a counter-party or counter-parties to be selected by the Authorized
Officer. Such Swap Agreement shall provide for payments between the Issuer and the
counter-party related to interest on all or a portion of the Bonds, or to indexed or market
established rates. If the Swap Agreement is entered at approximately the same time as the
issuance of the Bonds, the expected effective interest rates on the Bonds, taking into
account the effect of the Swap Agreement, shall be within the limitations set forth herein.
Any Swap Agreement in the form of an option, swaption or forward starting swap, may, if
the Bonds to which such agreement relates are not ultimately issued, be required to be
terminated, with a possibility of a resulting termination payment due by the University.
Any or all of the Bonds may be made subject to tender for purchase at the option of the
holder thereof. The obligation of the Issuer to purchase any Bonds subject to tender options
may be made payable from General Revenues, from available cash reserves of the
University, subject to such limitations as may be specified in the Trust Indenture, or from a
letter of credit, line of credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other liquidity device, or
one or more of the same, or any combination thereof (collectively, the "Liquidity Device"),
all as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer. The Liquidity Device, or any part
thereof, may also be used to provide liquidity for any other indebtedness or obligations of
the Issuer, including the Notes, the Outstanding Bonds, any variable rate Senior Lien
Indebtedness and any variable rate Hospital Revenue Bonds. Any reimbursement obligation
for draws under the Liquidity Device shall be a limited and not a general obligation of the
Issuer, payable from, and may be secured by a pledge of, General Revenues. Any portion of
the Liquidity Device which provides liquidity for any Senior Lien Indebtedness or Hospital
Revenue Bonds may, but shall not be required to, be additionally or alternatively payable
from, and may be secured by a lien on, any revenue stream securing the obligations for
which the liquidity is provided. Any Authorized Officer is authorized to execute and
deliver, for and on behalf of the Issuer, any agreements or instruments necessary to obtain,
maintain, renew or replace, and provide for repayments under, any Liquidity Device
deemed by such officer to be required for the purposes of this Resolution. In the alternative,
any or all of the Bonds may be subject to rights on behalf of the holders thereof to tender
their Bonds for purchase by the market through a dutch auction procedure, subject to a
specified maximum interest rate not in excess of the lesser of the maximum rate specified
by law or the rate specified in the Trust Indenture.


149




November leeting 04-Apni


3. The Bonds, and the obligations of the Issuer under the Swap Agreement and the Liquidity
Device, if any (except as specifically provided otherwise in Section 2 hereof), shall be
limited and not general obligations of the Issuer payable from and secured, by a lien on the
General Revenues (as shall be defined in the Trust Indenture in a manner generally
consistent with the definition thereof contained in the Trust Agreements pursuant to which
the Outstanding Bonds were issued), subject only to the senior liens on portions of General
Revenues securing the respective series of Senior Lien Indebtedness ( until each respective
series of such Senior Lien Indebtedness is paid or defeased in accordance with its terms).
The lien on General Revenues securing the Bonds shall be on a parity basis with the lien
securing the Notes and the Outstanding Bonds. The Bonds and the obligations of the Issuer
under the Swap Agreement and the Liquidity Device, if any may also be payable from and
secured by a lien on moneys, securities or other investments from time to time on deposit in
certain funds created pursuant to the Trust Indenture or agreements entered into in
connection with the Swap Agreement or Liquidity Device.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal amount of or interest or premium
on the Bonds, the Swap Agreement or the Liquidity Device, or any claim based thereon
against the State of Michigan, or any officer or agent thereof or of the Issuer or the
University, as individuals, either directly or indirectly, nor, except as specifically provided
in the Trust Indenture or the instruments entered into in connection with the Swap
Agreement or the Liquidity Device, if any, against the Issuer, nor shall the Bonds and
interest with respect thereto, or any obligations of the Issuer in connection with the Swap
agreement or Liquidity Device, if any (except as otherwise specifically provided in Section
2 hereof), become a lien on or be secured by any property, real, personal or mixed of the
State of Michigan or the Issuer, other than the General Revenues and the moneys from time
to time on deposit in all or part of the funds established by the Trust Indenture or the
agreements entered into in connection with the Swap Agreement or Liquidity Device, if
any.
Any pledge of General Revenues, and funds specified in the Trust Indenture or agreements
entered into in connection with the Swap Agreement or Liquidity Device, if any, shall be
valid and binding from the date of the issuance and delivery of the Bonds or such
agreements, and all moneys or properties subject thereto which are thereafter received shall
immediately be subject to the lien of the pledge without physical delivery or further act.
The lien of said pledge shall be valid and binding against all parties (other than the holders
of any outstanding bonds, notes or other obligations secured by a senior or parity lien on
any portion General Revenues) having a claim in tort, contract or otherwise against the
Issuer, irrespective of whether such parties have notice of the lien.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any obligations of the Issuer under the
Swap Agreement or any agreement with respect to the Liquidity Device may, if determined
appropriate by an Authorized Officer, be payable and secured on a subordinated basis to the
Bonds and other General Revenue obligations of the Issuer.
4. The right is reserved to issue additional bonds, notes or other obligations payable from and
secured on a parity basis with the Bonds from the General Revenues, upon compliance with


150




November Meeting, 2004 - Appendix A


additional Senior Lien Indebtedness.  In addition, any Authorized Officer is hereby
authorized, empowered and directed to negotiate, if necessary and expedient for the
issuance of the Bonds, for acquisition of bond insurance and to execute and deliver an
insurance commitment or other documents or instruments required in connection with such
insurance.
6. Any Authorized Officer is hereby authorized and directed, in the name and on behalf of the
Issuer and as its corporate act and deed, to select the Underwriter and to negotiate, execute
and deliver the Bond Purchase Agreement and Remarketing Agreement or Broker Dealer
Agreement, if necessary, with the Underwriter setting forth the terms of the Bonds and the
sale thereof, all within the limitations set forth herein.
7. The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, or in the event of his
unavailability, the President, is hereby authorized, empowered and directed, in the name
and on behalf of the Issuer, and as its corporate act and deed, to execute the Bonds by
placing his or her facsimile or manual signature thereon, and to deliver or cause to be
delivered the Bonds to the Underwriter in exchange for the purchase price thereof, as
provided in the Bond Purchase Agreement.
8. Any Authorized Officer is hereby authorized to solicit ratings on the Bonds from any
national rating service which the Authorized Officer deems appropriate and to cause the
preparation of a Preliminary Official Statement, if necessary, and an Official Statement with
respect to the Bonds, and to execute and deliver the Official Statement. The Underwriter is
authorized to circulate and use, in accordance with applicable law, the Preliminary Official
Statement, if any, and the Official Statement in connection with the offering, marketing and
sale of the Bonds.
9. The President, the Authorized Officers, the Secretary or Assistant Secretary, the Vice
President and General Counsel and any associate general counsel, and any other appropriate
officer of the Issuer or the University are hereby authorized to perform all acts and deeds
and to execute and deliver for and on behalf of the Issuer all instruments and documents
required by this resolution, the Trust Indenture, or the Bond Purchase Agreement, or
necessary, expedient and proper in connection with the issuance, sale and delivery of the
Bonds, as contemplated hereby, including, if deemed appropriate, an escrow deposit
agreement with an escrow agent to be designated by an Authorized Officer.  Each
Authorized Officer is hereby authorized to designate and empower the escrow agent or the
Underwriter to subscribe for United States Treasury Obligations, State and Local
Government Series, on behalf of the Issuer, as may be necessary in connection with any
refunding or refinancing authorized hereby. Any reference to an officer of the Issuer or the
University herein shall include any interim or acting officer appointed by the Issuer. Any
action required under the Trust Indenture, Bond Purchase Agreement, Swap Agreement,
agreement entered into in connection with the Liquidity Device or other instrument related
to the Bonds may be taken by and on behalf of the Issuer by any Authorized Officer.
10. In accordance with the requirements of Rule 15c2-12 of the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission, the Issuer may be required in connection with the issuance of the
Bonds to enter into a Disclosure Undertaking for the benefit of the holders and beneficial
owners of the Bonds. Any Authorized Officer is authorized to cause to be prepared and to
execute and deliver, on behalf of the Issuer, the Undertaking.
11. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in conflict herewith
be and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.


151




November Meeting, 2004 - Appendix A


EXHIBIT A
PROJECT
The Project consists of the components set forth below:
*   Ann Street Parking Structure
*   Cardiovascular Center Project- Phase 1 and related projects
*   Central Campus and Medical Center - Electrical Substation and Underground Distribution
System
*   ITCS/ITCOM Projects
*   Housing Fire Safety/Infrastructure
*   Literature Science and the Arts Building Renovation
*   School of Engineering Projects
*   School of Public Health Buildings Renovations
*   Recreational Sports Projects
*   UM-Dearborn Engineering Laboratory Building
*   UM-Dearborn Science Building
*   Utility Tunnel Piping Project-Central Power Plant to Victor Vaughn Building


152




NOVEMBER, 2004 - APPENDIX B
RESOLUTION OF THE
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY
OF HOSPITAL REVENUE BONDS,
AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer")
constitutes a constitutional body corporate established pursuant to Article VIII, Section
5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, as amended, with the general supervision of
the University of Michigan (the "University") and the control and direction of all
expenditures from the University's funds; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer entered into a master indenture, as supplemented (the
"Master Indenture") dated as of May 1, 1986 with U.S. Bank National Association
(successor to Comerica Bank) as Master Trustee (the "Master Trustee"), pursuant to
which revenue obligations for the benefit of the University of Michigan Hospitals (the
"Hospital") have been and will be issued and secured; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has issued and has outstanding Commercial Paper
Notes, Series F (the "Series F Notes") which are payable from and secured by General
Revenues (as defined in the instruments authorizing the Series F Notes), the proceeds
of which, in part provided for interim financing or refinancing for the Project
(hereinafter defined), and it may be appropriate and economic to refund all or a part of
the outstanding principal of the Series F Notes; and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties and in order to properly
serve the needs of the University, and its students and constituents, the Issuer has
authorized the acquisition, construction, installation and equipping of the capital
improvements described in Exhibit A (collectively, the "Project"), all of which are or
will become part of, or otherwise will benefit the Hospital; and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties, and in order to
prudently control and direct expenditures from the University's funds, the Issuer
determines it is necessary and desirable to authorize the issuance of a series of hospital
revenue obligations (the "Bonds") to provide funds which, together with other
available funds, may be used to pay all or a portion of the costs of the Project, to pay all
or a portion of the costs of refinancing a portion of the Series F Notes, and to pay
certain costs incurred in connection with the issuance and sale of the Bonds and the
refinancing; and
WHEREAS, the Bonds will be issued pursuant to a trust indenture (the "Series
Indenture") to be entered into by and between the Issuer and a trustee (the "Series
Trustee") to be selected by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,
Associate Vice President for Finance, or Treasurer of the University (each an
"Authorized Officer") as a series of revenue obligations under the Master Indenture;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to authorize the Authorized Officers to negotiate
the sale of the Bonds with an underwriter or group of underwriters to be selected by an
Authorized Officer (collectively, the "Underwriter") and to enter into a bond purchase
agreement (the "Bond Purchase Agreement") and, if deemed appropriate, a
Remarketing Agreement (the "Remarketing Agreement") or a Broker Dealer
Agreement (the "Broker Dealer Agreement") with the Underwriter setting forth the
terms and conditions upon which the Underwriter will agree to purchase the Bonds and
the interest rates thereof and the purchase price therefor; and


153




November Meeting, 2004 - Appendix B


NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE
UNJIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
1. The Issuer hereby authorizes the issuance, execution and delivery of the Bonds of the Issuer
to be designated as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer (but which designation shall
include the words "HOSPITAL REVENUE BONDS") with appropriate series designation, in
the aggregate original principal amount to be established by an Authorized Officer, but not to
exceed the principal amount necessary to produce proceeds of $160,000,000, to be dated as of
the date or dates established by an Authorized Officer, for the purpose of providing funds
which, together with other available funds, may be used to pay all or a portion of the costs of the
Project, to pay all or a portion of the costs of refinancing a portion of the Series F Notes, and to
pay costs incidental to the issuance of the Bonds and the refinancing, including capitalized
interest, if any for such period as an Authorized Officer may determine appropriate, and bond
insurance premiums, if any. Any Authorized Officer is authorized to determine the specific
amount of the cost of each component of the Project to be financed from the proceeds of the
Bonds, and the portion of the Series F Notes to be refinanced with the proceeds of the Bonds.
The Issuer may subsequently approve additional components of the Project and specify that such
additional components shall be financed in whole or in part from the proceeds of the Bonds,
upon which occurrence such components shall thereupon become components of the Project
hereunder. The Bonds shall be serial Bonds or term Bonds, which may be subject to redemption
requirements, or both, as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the first maturity
shall be no earlier than June 1, 2005 and the last maturity shall be no later than December 3 1,
2037. The Bonds may bear no interest or may bear interest at stated fixed rates for the
respective maturities thereof as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the weighted
average yield (computed using the stated coupons and the stated original offering price) for the
Bonds shall not exceed 6.500 per annum, and the Bonds may be issued in whole or in part as
capital appreciation bonds, which for their term or any part thereof bear no interest but
appreciate in principal amount over time at compounded rates (not in excess of 7.0%0 per annum)
to be determined by an Authorized Officer. Alternatively, all or part of the Bonds may bear
interest at a variable rate of interest for all or a portion of their term, and the variable rate of
interest shall not exceed the lesser of the maximum rate permitted by law or the maximum rate,
if any, to be specified in the Series Indenture. In addition, all or part of the Bonds may be issued
in related series, one of which bears interest at a variable rate and one of which bears interest at
a residual rate determined by subtracting the variable rate from the fixed rate paid by the Issuer,
but the combined rate on such Bonds, taking the two related series together, which shall be
determined by an Authorized Officer, shall not exceed 7.O0% per annum. The Bonds may be
subject to redemption or call for purchase prior to maturity at the times and prices and in the
manner as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but no redemption premium shall
exceed 300 of the principal amount being redeemed. Interest on the Bonds shall be payable at
such times as shall be specified by an Authorized Officer. The Bonds shall be issued in fully
registered form in denominations, shall be payable as to principal and interest in the manner,
shall be subject to transfer and exchange, and shall be executed and authenticated, all as shall be
provided in the Series Indenture. The Bonds shall be sold to the Underwriter pursuant to the
Bond Purchase Agreement for a price to be established by an Authorized Officer (but the
Underwriter's discount, exclusive of original issue discount, shall not exceed 0.7%o of the
principal amount thereof) plus accrued interest, if any, from the dated date of the Bonds to the


154




November Meeting, 2004 - Appendix B


effective interest rates on the Bonds, taking into account the effect of the Swap Agreement, shall
be within the limitations set forth herein. Any Swap Agreement in the form of an option,
swaption or forward starting swap, may, if the Bonds to which such agreement relates are not
ultimately issued, be required to be terminated, with a possibility of a resulting termination
payment due by the University.
Any or all of the Bonds may be made subject to tender for purchase at the option of the holder
thereof. The obligation of the Issuer to purchase any Bonds subject to tender options may be
made payable from Hospital Gross Revenues, from available cash reserves of the University,
subject to such limitations as may be specified in the Series Indenture, or from a letter of credit,
line of credit, standby bond purchase agreement or other liquidity device, or one or more of the
same, or any combination thereof (collectively, the "Liquidity Device"), all as shall be
determined by an Authorized Officer. Any reimbursement obligation for draws under the
Liquidity Device shall be a limited and not a general obligation of the Issuer, payable from
Hospital Gross Revenues (as defined in the Master Indenture), and may be secured by a pledge
of Pledged Hospital Gross Revenues (as defined in the Master Indenture), and may, additionally
or alternatively, be payable from General Revenues and may be secured by a pledge of General
Revenues, as an Authorized Officer shall determine appropriate. Any Authorized Officer is
authorized to execute and deliver, for and on behalf of the Issuer, any agreements or instruments
necessary to obtain, maintain, renew or replace, and provide for repayments under, any
Liquidity Device deemed by such officer to be required for the purposes of this Resolution. In
the alternative, any or all of the Bonds may be subject to rights on behalf of the holders thereof
to tender their Bonds for purchase by the market through a dutch auction procedure, subject to a
specified maximum interest rate not in excess of the lesser of the maximum rate specified by law
or the rate specified in the Series Indenture.
2. The Bonds and the Issuer's obligations under any Swap Agreement and (except as
otherwise provided in the last paragraph of the preceding Section 1) any Liquidity Device shall
be limited and not general obligations of the Issuer payable from Hospital Gross Revenues and
equally and ratably secured with all other Revenue Obligations (as defined in the Master
Indenture) by an irrevocable pledge of the Pledged Hospital Gross Revenues, and the funds
from time to time on deposit in certain of the funds created pursuant to the Master Indenture and
may be additionally secured by the funds from time to time on deposit in certain of the funds
created pursuant to the Series Indenture or the Swap Agreement or documents entered into in
connection with the Liquidity Device.
Except as provided in the Master Indenture and the Series Indenture, or the Swap Agreement or
documents entered into in connection with the Liquidity Device. no recourse shall be had for the
payment of the principal amount of or interest or premium on the Bonds or any obligation of the
Issuer under the Master Indenture or the Series Indenture, or under the Swap Agreement or
Liquidity Device, or any claim based thereon against the State of Michigan, the Issuer, or any
officer or agent thereof, as individuals, either directly or indirectly, nor shall the Bonds or any
obligation of the Issuer under the Master Indenture or the Series Indenture, or under the Swap
Agreement or Liquidity Device, become a lien on or be secured by any property, real, personal
or mixed of the State of Michigan or the Issuer or the University, other than the Pledged
Hospital Gross Revenues and the moneys from time to time on deposit in certain of the funds
established by the Master Indenture and the Series Indenture or the Swap Agreement or
documents entered into in connection with the Liquidity Device; provided, that as set forth
above, the Issuer's obligations under the Liquidity Device may be made payable from, and may
be secured by a pledge of, General Revenues.
Any pledge of Pledged Hospital Gross Revenues, General Revenues, and funds specified in the
Master Indenture, Series Indenture, Swap Agreement or agreements entered into in connection
with the Liquidity Device, if any, shall be valid and binding from the date of the issuance and
delivery of the Bonds or such agreements, and all moneys or properties subject thereto which


155




Novemeiber MIeet~ing, 2004 - Appendix B~


are thereafter received shall immediately be subject to the lien of the pledge without physical
delivery or further act. The lien of said pledges shall be valid and binding against all parties
(other than the holders of any outstanding bonds, notes or other obligations secured by a parity
or superior lien on Pledged Hospital Gross Revenues or a parity or superior lien on General
Revenues or a portion thereof) having a claim in tort, contract or otherwise against the Issuer,
irrespective of whether such parties have notice of the lien.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any obligations of the Issuer under the Swap
Agreement or any agreement with respect to the Liquidity Device may, if determined
appropriate by an Authorized Officer, be payable and secured on a subordinated basis to the
Bonds and other Hospital Revenue obligations or General Revenue obligations of the Issuer.
3. The right is reserved to issue additional bonds, notes or other obligations payable from
Hospital Gross Revenues, or secured on a parity basis with the Bonds from the Pledged Hospital
Gross Revenues, upon compliance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Master
Indenture.
4. Any Authorized Officer is hereby authorized and directed, in the name and on behalf of the
Issuer, and as its corporate act and deed, to select the Series Trustee, and to negotiate, execute
and deliver the Series Indenture. In addition, any Authorized Officer is hereby authorized,
empowered and directed to negotiate, if necessary and expedient for the issuance of the Bonds,
for acquisition of bond insurance and to execute and deliver an insurance commitment or other
documents or instruments required in connection with such insurance.
5. Any Authorized Officer is hereby authorized and directed, in the name and on behalf of the
Issuer and as its corporate act and deed, to select the Underwriter and to negotiate, execute and
deliver the Bond Purchase Agreement and Remarketing Agreement or Broker Dealer
Agreement, if necessary, with the Underwriter setting forth the terms of the Bonds and the sale
thereof, all within the limitations set forth herein.
6. The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, or in the event of his
unavailability, the President, is hereby authorized, empowered and directed, in the name and on
behalf of the Issuer, and as its corporate act and deed, to execute the Bonds by placing his or her
facsimile or manual signature thereon, and to deliver or cause to be delivered the Bonds to the
Underwriter in exchange for the purchase price thereof, as provided in the Bond Purchase
Agreement.
7. Either Authorized Officer is hereby authorized to prepare or arrange to be prepared the
Preliminary Official Statement, if necessary, with respect to the Bonds and to prepare or
arrange to be prepared, and to execute and deliver on behalf of the Issuer, the Official Statement
with respect to the Bonds and such supplements or amendments to the Official Statement as may
be required pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement. The Underwriter is hereby authorized to
circulate and use the Preliminary Official Statement and the Official Statement, as the same may
be so supplemented or amended, in accordance with applicable law, in the offering, marketing
and sale of the Bonds.
8. Each of the Authorized Officers, the Secretary, the General Counsel, and any other
appropriate officer of the University are hereby authorized to perform all acts and deeds and to
execute and deliver all instruments and documents for and on behalf of the Issuer or the
University required by this resolution, the Master Indenture, the Series Indenture, or the Bond
Purchase Agreement, or the Swap Agreement or documents entered into in connection with the
Liquidity Device. or necessary, expedient and proper in connection with the issuance, sale and
delivery of the Bonds or any issue or series thereof, and the ongoing operation of the financing
programs represented by the Bonds, all as contemplated hereby. Any reference to an officer of
the Issuer or the University herein shall include any interim or acting officer appointed by the
Issuer.


156




Novemeiber MIeet~ing, 2004 - Appendix B~


9. In accordance with the requirements of Rule 15c2-12 of the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission, the Issuer is required in connection with the issuance of the Bonds to
enter into a Disclosure Undertaking for the benefit of the holders and beneficial owners of the
Bonds. Either Authorized Officer is authorized to cause to be prepared and to execute and
deliver, on behalf of the Issuer, the Undertaking.
10. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in conflict herewith
be and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
EXHIBIT A
PROJECT
The Project consists of the components set forth below:
"   Cardiovascular Center Project- Phase 1 and related projects
"   Central Campus and Medical Center - Electrical Substation and Underground Distribution
System


157




November Meeting, 2004 - Appendix B


158




DECEMBER MEETING, 2004


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, December 16, 2004
Panel Discussion: "New Technology, Libraries, and Scholarship"
The formal meeting was preceded by a panel discussion on the topic of new
technology, libraries, and scholarship.  The event took place at the Video and
Performance Center in the Duderstadt Center on North Campus, from 2:00-3:00 p.m.
Panelists were Professors Margaret Hedstrom, Paul Courant, Daniel Atkins, James Hilton,
and John Wilkin, associate University librarian.
Regents' Meeting
The Regents convened at 3:25 p.m. in the Lurie Engineering Center on North
Campus. Present were President Coleman and Regents Brandon, Maynard, McGowan,
Newman, Richner, Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost Courant, Vice President
Harper, Executive Vice President Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice
President May, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice President
Slottow, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President
Wilbanks. Regent Deitch was absent.
Call to Order and Opening Remarks
President Coleman called the meeting to order at 3:25 p.m. She announced that
University of Michigan students had received two of the world's most prestigious
academic awards. Joseph Jewell, a graduate student in aerospace engineering, was named
a Rhodes Scholar, and Jacob Bourjaily, an undergraduate student majoring in physics and
mathematics, has received a Marshall Scholarship. She expressed the University's
enormous pride in these most distinguished achievements.
Regent McGowan commented that at a future date, the Regents would invite Mr.
Jewell and Mr. Bourjaily to be recognized at a Regents' Meeting. She observed that
these are very significant awards and noted that the University's last Rhode's
scholarship recipient, Fiona Rose, went on to earn a Ph.D. in classical studies from
Oxford University and is now a faculty member there. The Regents look forward to
having the two latest honorees join them to celebrate this fantastic achievement.
President Coleman reported that she had recently participated in an event in
Washington at which the National Innovation Initiative Report was presented to the
president and federal government officials. The purpose of this study, commissioned by
the Council on Competitiveness, was to determine what the country needs to do to stay
competitive in the global economy. The same day, the report of the statewide Cherry
Commission which had been appointed by the governor to look at issues of economic
development, was submitted as well. She commented that she had been a member of
both of these groups and that both had come to many of the same conclusions.


159




December Meeting, 2004


Education, investment in science and technology, and support of entrepreneurship
emerged as principal themes of both reports.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning, with Regents Taylor and White in attendance. The
committee was briefed by Provost Courant, Associate Provost Philip Hanlon, and
Executive Vice President Robert Kelch about the business model for development of the
General Fund budget, including revenue allocations, transfer costs, treatment of gifts, and
other issues. Next, the committee met with Associate Vice President Peggy Norgren,
Controller Cheryl Soper, and Ed Jennings, corporate tax manager, on issues regarding tax
exposure and risk and compliance issues pertaining to tax matters. The committee also
had a brief update on the Sarbannes-Oxley work plan and met with Carol Senneff,
executive director of University audits, regarding results of the October and November
audits. The committee also met privately with Ms. Senneff and was assured that the
University auditors have been receiving a high level of cooperation with management.
Compensation and Personnel Committee. Regent Maynard reported that the
committee had met that morning, with Regents Deitch and Richner in attendance. The
three topics covered included a discussion with President Coleman about the executive
officer evaluation process, a discussion with Provost Courant about the process of
evaluation of deans, and a review of the annual salary report, which will be released to
the media on Monday, December 20.
Parking and Transportation Update
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that a parking and transportation strategic
plan had been presented to the Board in September 2004, and an update will be presented
annually. He introduced Mr. Dave Miller, director of parking and transportation.
Mr. Miller commented that the department's philosophy is to provide mobility
options and transportation choices, and not just to add parking spaces as the University
grows. He said that challenges include responding to growth in employment of faculty
and staff, as well as providing off-site parking for contractors, meeting the
transportation needs of students, enhancing the University's relationship with the Ann
Arbor Transportation Authority (AATA), promoting alternative transportation options,
delivering new parking facilities, and maintaining existing parking facilities.
Mr. Miller noted that all structures are now controlled by "Automatic Vehicle
Identification" (AVI) devices, which not only help limit unauthorized access to parking
structures, but allow for perpetual permits for employees, saving more than $40,000
annually in the cost of renewals. There is also a new handicap parking decal program.
Mr. Miller observed that the UM buses now transport 4.7 million passengers per
year, up 7% from last year, and that additional service hours and routes were added this
fall in response to the increased population of students on North Campus. He described
the new "MRide" program, which provides free AATA rides for UM faculty, staff, and
students, noting that this program had no impact on the department's budget due to the
use of federal transit funds. The program has resulted in a 12% increase in AATA
ridership, with the University now accounting for 40% of AATA ridership. Compared


160




December Meeting, 2004


with the joint UM and AATA programs that were in place in 2003, MRide has resulted
in a ridership increase of 92%. It was noted that much of the success of the program
among the student population can be attributed to a very successful marketing campaign
explaining how students can receive free transportation around the entire campus region
through MRide.
Mr. Miller noted that the University also provides a van pool service that is free to
users, and he said that usage has tripled over the past 3 years. Regarding parking
structures, he pointed out that a 450-space structure for patients and staff is being
constructed at the site of the Cardiovascular Center and that the remaining half of the
1,000-space Palmer Drive structure had been opened on Central Campus. The Ann
Street parking structure, which will have 536 spaces, is expected to open in the spring
of 2006. He commented that a future parking deck is planned for Division Street,
parallel to the Thompson Street structure. Since 1998, a net total of 1,300 faculty and
staff ("blue") parking spaces have been added on central campus, along with 1,300
remote spaces. Another net total of 1,000 "blue" spaces will be added on the central
and medical campuses by 2007.
Mr. Miller reviewed the plan for parking rate increases previously provided to the
Board at the February 2004 meeting. Over the next three years, "gold" permits will
experience the highest increase, to make them comparable to rates charged by the City
of Ann Arbor for downtown parking. He commented that all of the steps the
department has taken resulted in its being the first Midwest university to be recognized
by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as one of "Best Workplace for
Commuters." He reviewed possible locations for new parking decks and transportation
plans for 2008 and beyond.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the meeting
of November 18, 2004.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report, the
Plant Extension Report, and the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of projects
established, November 30, 2004.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Kelch called
attention to the retirement memoir for Dr. Lazar Greenfield, who had served as interim
executive vice president for medical affairs.
ivsion of     tden  Affairs.  Vice President Harper acknowledged the
exceptional leadership being provided by the leaders of Michigan Student Assembly
and the Residence Halls Association.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little called attention to the
Urban Environmental Outreach Program, which brings scientific and environmental
education to underserved elementary school students, and to the completion of the


161




-villicember Mteeting, 20)04


thermal spray laboratory, which spray-forms metal parts from CAD drawings and has
received significant external funding.
University of Michigan-Flint.      Chancellor Mestas commented that Regent
Maynard would be attending the campus's winter commencement and that for the first
time, the commencement speaker would be a recently retired staff member, Lydia
Henry. Her selection as speaker is meant to send a message of appreciation to all staff
members on the Flint campus.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. Jason Mironov, president of MSA, noted
that vice president Jenny Nathan had resigned and introduced Anita Leung, who has
assumed this role. He reported on MSA activities and noted that communication has
been established with the provost regarding the budget process. He showed a video
illustrating MSA's accomplishments during the semester, and he reported on programs
planned through the remainder of the school year.
Voluntary Support. Vice President May submitted the Report of Voluntary
Support for November 2004. He noted that gift receipts continue to be strong.
Advanced Rise Machines, Ltd., Cambridge, England
for research in the College of Engineering..................................  $39,403
Susan J. Allen, Grand Rapids
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.................. 100,000
Alzheimer's Disease Research, Rockville, Maryland
for research in the College of Pharmacy......................................... 12,500
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................. 73,763
Herbert and Carol Amster Family Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Federation of Washtenaw,
Ann Arbor
for support in the Museum of Art and the School of Music,
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Endowed Lupus Research Fund in
the Medical School and
for the University Musical Society............................................ 27,000
Anonymous Donor
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................ 100,000
Anonymous
for support in the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology and the Museum of Art............. 10,100
Kriss Arbury, Midland
331 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for the Kriss and Carol Arbury Football Scholarship Fund in
the Department of Athletics................................................. 15,804
Attwood Foundation, Canton
for the Charles W. Attwood Scholarship Fund in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.................. 10,000
Frank R. Barnako, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
for the Building Fund and other support in the Law School......................... 15,000
Leonard J. Baxt, Washington, D. C.
for support in the Law School................................................. 16,667
Elizabeth D. Black Fund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............................. 10,000
Josef S. Blass, Pemberville, Ohio
for the Nicolaus Copernicus Collegiate Professorship Endowment Fund and
for support in the Center for Russian and East European Studies in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 26,400
Barbara M. Brandenburg, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Center for Heritage Landscaping at
the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................................ 10,000
Breast Cancer Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.....................................  112,500
Dickson G. Brown, New York, New York
for the Building Fund in the Law School..................................... 50,000
Scott D. Brown, Saint Petersburg, Florida
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... 15,000


162




Linda Burke, Quincy
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................ 15,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Law School............................................... 35,000
Wai T. Chang, Danville, California
for the Computer Science and Engineering Building Fund in
the College of Engineering................................................ 100,000
Douglas B. Chase, North Easton, Massac'husetts
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............................. 17,000
Clan Crawford,, Jr., Trust
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens and
for the Nichols Arboretum..................................................17,000
Dale C. Clark Trust
for undergraduate student aid............................................... 102,000
Cohen Family Fund of the Community Foundation of Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the Computer Science Alumnae of Michigan Award Fund....................... 10,000
Jonathan D. Coleman, Denver, Colorado
for the Jonathan D. Coleman and Aimee Baehler Scholarship........................ 20,000
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint................................. 103,48)9
Cresswell Family Foundation, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Sheila B. Cresswell Fellowship in the College of Pharmac'y and
for research. in the Comprehensive Canc'er Center................................ 157,000
Franklin M. Cunard Trust
for the Class of 1949 Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering................. 20,000
DaimlerChrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for support in the Sctool of Natural Resources and Environment..................... 40,000
Duncan M. Davidson, Atherton, Califomnia
for the Building Fund in the Lawv School....................................... 10000
DCES Educational Services, Canton
for the Summer Engineering Academy Programs in the College of Engineering.......... 14,000
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann. Arbor
for the Dekers Club Hockey Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics........... 20,000
Delphi Automotive Systems, Phoenix, Arizona
for support in the Transportation Research Institute............................... 10,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for researc'h in the Medical School............................................13750
Andrew G. De Rocco, Hartford, Connecticut
for the Andrew De Rocco Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............................... 10000
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program, Inc., Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering...................................... 50,853
Detroit University of Michigan Club Scholarship Fund, Farmington
for football scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 40,000
Mar H. Dobson, Ann Arbor
2,050 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stoc'k
for support in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital., the Museum of Art,
the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, and the Department of Athletics and
for other support at the University of Michigan................................. 102,900
Dow Corning Corporation, Midland
-for chemistr research in the College of Literature, Scienc'e, and the Arts...............1.0,000
James S. Duesenberr, Cambridge, Massachusetts
for the James and Margaret Duesenberr Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Department of Economics in the College of Literature, Science, and, the Arts......... 20,000
Connie R. Dunlap, Ann Arbor
for the Rober Bruce Dunlap Endowment Fund in the Comprehensive Canc'er Center....20,000
John R. dmaIRnch% Sat_1A Fe,'Cal Iforni


163




Foundation for Digestive Health and Nutrition, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 16,250
Judith Frankel, Bloomfield Hills
for the Stanley Frankel Summer Fellowship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 25,000
Stanley Frankel, Troy
for the Stanley Frankel Summer Fellowship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 25,000
Samuel and Jean Frankel of the United Jewish Foundation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Frankel Professorship in Cardiovascular Surgery in the Medical School...........690,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Family Foundation, Troy
for the Judaic Studies Director's Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 10,000
Frey Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy..................250,000
Charles H. Gessner, Marblehead, Massachusetts
for the Charles H. Gessner Doctorial Fellowship in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business......................................... 20,000
Ghafari Associates, Inc., Dearborn
for the University  M usical Society.............................................. 20,000
William B. Ginsberg, New York, New York
for the Rosalie  S. Ginsberg  Awards Fund........................................ 60,000
Global Concepts, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for the Turkish Lecturer Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 10,000
Goerlich Family Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
for research  in  the  M edical School..............................................14,000
Howard J. Gourwitz, Bloomfield Hills
5,100 shares of TLC Vision Corporation common stock
for support in  the  School of M usic.............................................. 53,066
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in the  School of Education..........................................60,000
Craig Gurian, New York, New York
for the Arthur Fondiler Dissertation Award in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 10,000
Hilda F. Hamburger Trust
for the Hilda and Joel Hamburger, M.D., Scholarship Fund in the Medical School.........35,000
Robert C. Harnden Trust
for the Harnden Family Memorial Fund at the University of Michigan.................424,174
Doreen N. Hermelin, Bingham Farms
for the Israeli Fellowship in Radiation Oncology in the Medical School.................15,000
Alan J. Hirschfield Living Trust
1,400 shares of Interactive Data Corporation common stock
for the Berte and Alan Hirschfield Fund in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute..........26,943
Mark S. Hopkins, Alpharetta, Georgia
1,000 shares of Orbital Sciences Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 15,380
William F. Hunting, Jr., Andover, New Hampshire
225 shares of Lincoln National Corporation common stock
for support in  the  Law  School.................................................  10,240
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in the College  of Engineering........................................ 20,000
John Ivkov Foundation, Grosse Pointe
for support in the Pediatric Cancer Center........................................ 10,000
Jagdish C. Janveja, Ann Arbor
for the ICA-Stadium Brick Projects Fund in the Department of Athletics................ 10,000
William R. Jentes, Chicago, Illinois
4,905 shares of Lowe's Companies, Inc., common stock
for the William R. Jentes Merit Scholarship Fund in the Law StoolA................284,196
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the Medical Sctool........................................... 234,125
Thomas C. Jones, Ann Arbor
10,000 shares of Cigna Corporation common stock
for sup port in the Stephen M. Ross Sctool of Business............................ 693,400
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School........................................... 375,075
Jim Kamman, Laguna Hills, California
200 shares of Nike, Inc., common stock, and a cash g'ift
for support in the Department of Athletics and
for the University of Michigan Alumni of Orange County Scholarship Fund.............17,654


164




-villicember Mteeting, 20)04


Henry B. and Jessie W. Keiser Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Henry B. and Jessie W. Keiser Scholarship Endowment Fund.................. 50,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the Institute for Social Research and the School of Public Health......... 160,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for support in the University Hospitals........................................ 30,667
William E. Kogen, Pompton Plains, New Jersey
1,150 shares of Verizon Communications common stock
for the Matt Mann Men's Swimming and Diving Scholarship in
the Department of Athletics and
for the University Musical Society............................................ 51,359
Jon H. Kouba, San Francisco, California
for the Jon Henry Kouba Endowment Fund in the Law School........................ 10,000
Emily Koulogeorge, Northbrook, Illinois
for the Emily Koulogeorge Scholarship Fund in the College of Pharmacy............... 10,000
Ronni Lacroute Fund of the Cornell University Foundation, Ithaca, New York
for the Romance Language Strategic Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 50,000
Lannquist Hamilton Foundation of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.................. 25,000
David A. Lauer, San Francisco, California
for support in the School of Art and Design....................................... 10,000
Thomas L. Lott Trust
for support in the Law School.............................................. 15,000
Lupus Alliance of America, Inc., Saint Clair Shores
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Lupus Research Fund in the Medical School....... 10,000
Ann P. Mack, Metamora
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarship in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business in
memory of Maxine Pierpont................................................ 10,000
Artur and Phyllis R. Mager Trust
for the Artur Mager Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Engineering........................................... 50,000
Eleanore J. Mahlke Estate
for the Samuel Trask Dana Award in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.. 300,000
Clayton K. Mammel, Denver, Colorado
for the Clayton and Jeanne Mammel Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Medical School.... 38,000
Mardigian Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Edward and Helen Mardigian Foundation Research Fund in the Medical School... 150,000
Lionel S. Margolick, Birmingham
for the Basketball Facility Fund in the Department of Athletics...................... 31,250
Richard N. Maskell, Hampshire, Illinois
2,230 units of various mutual funds
for the Richard and Odette Maskell Fund in the School of Art and Design.............. 82,831
McGregor Fund, Detroit
for the Geriatric Social Work Fellows Program in the School of Social Work........... 155,000
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
18,200 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Kelsey Museum Expansion Project................................... 1,038,124
Juan E. Mestas, Flint
for the Juan E. Mestas Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint................. 20,000
Mette Foundation, Detroit
for the Mette Foundation Scholarship in the School of Dentistry and
for the Norman Mette Scholarship in the Medical School........................... 130,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for research in the School of Information........................................ 15,000
Norman F. Miller Gynecologic Society, Ann Arbor
for the Mel Barclay Medical Student Scholarship Fund in the Medical School............. 15,000
Jerome D. Mills Trust
1,135 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Midge and Jerry Mills Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy.................. 48,749
Minerva Education and Development Foundation, Detroit
for support in the School of Social Work....................................... 14,050
Celestine E. Moloney Trust
for undergraduate student aid............................................... 140,000
John M. Nannes, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the Law School and in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 26,000


165




December Meeting, 2004


National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Life Sciences Institute...................................... 28,000
National Kidney Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.......................................... 12,500
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School........................................... 79,281
National Public Broadcasting, New York, New York
for WUOM.............................................................. 26,306
John F. Nickoll Living Trust
for the Building Fund in the Law School..................................... 100,000
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
for support in the School of Dentistry................................... 50,000
Nobel Foundation, Wooster, Ohio
for research in the Medical School............................................ 100,000
Northrop Grumman, Baltimore, Maryland
for support in the College of Engineering....................................... 10,000
Helen Forster Novy Fund of the San Francisco Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the Fred G. Novy Fellowship in Microbiology and
the F. G. Novy Library Endowment Fund and
for other support in the Medical School......................................... 25,000
Todd Ouida Children's Foundation of the Community Foundation of New Jersey,
River Edge, New Jersey
for the Ouida Child and Adolescent Depression Fund in the Medical School............ 10,000
William C. Parkinson Trust
for the Professor William C. and Martha Parkinson Scholarship in the School of Music and
for the William C. Parkinson Graduate Student Support Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 55,000
George and Rebecca Peapples Fund of the Ayco Charitable Foundation, Clifton Park, New York
for the Class of 1963 Scholarship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business...... 15,000
Donald E. Petersen, Birmingham
3,650 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Donald and Jo Anne Petersen Fund in the Medical School...................... 68,482
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School............................................ 25,000
Polo Fields Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital... 50,000
POM Group, Inc., Auburn Hills
for research in the College of Engineering...................................... 55,000
Lauren G. Prager, Ann Arbor
for the Building Fund in the Museum of Art.................................... 10,000
ProQuest, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society............................................. 10,000
Barbara and Richard Raynor Medical Foundation, Fort Worth, Texas
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 40,000
Rudolph E. Reichert, Jr., Ann Arbor
1,060 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens and the Nichols Arboretum in memory of
Sue Reichert...........................................................  39,920
Eugene B. Reid, Walnut Creek, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 10,000
Research and Education Foundation for the American Association for the Surgery of Trauma,
Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School............................................. 20,000
Jeffrey A. Rich, Dallas, Texas
2,930 shares of Affiliated Computer Services, Inc., common stock
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............................ 1.73,148
Jack F. Ross, Temple Terrace, Florida
for the Jack F. Ross, M.D. Scholarship Fund in the Medical School.................... 25,000
Mary L. Ruddon, Ann Arbor
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................... 10,000
Donald and Elizabeth Runck Trust
for the Donald H. and Elizabeth F. Runck Student Aid Fund in
the Schools of Education, Music, and Nursing, the Medical School,
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business, and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 66,132
Frederic M. and Barbara A. Scherer Trust
for the Scherer Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 20,000


166




Dellcember Meeting, 2004


John E. Schippel, Barrington, Illinois
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and the Law School.............12,000
Steven F. Schwartz, Ann Arbor
for the Stanley S. Schwartz Prize Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 10,000
Robert D. Scott, Mason, Ohio
for the Robert D. Scott Endowment Fund in the College of Engineering.................25,000
Brent Scowcroft, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy..................250,000
Donna F. and Rodney V. Shankland Trust
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 20,000
Edward L. Shearer, Metairie, Louisianna
for the Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Loyal Crew Fund in
the  College  of Engineering....................................................  10,000
Shell Oil Company, Houston, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering, the Stephen M. Ross School of Business, and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 124,500
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for the Women's Gymnastics Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 90,000
Ching ju Wang Sheu, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Ching ju Wang Sheu Graduate Student Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy..... 35,000
Leonard G. Siegal, Fannington Hills
for the Leonard G. and Bluma A. Siegal Merit Scholarship in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning...................10,000
Herbert E. Sloan, Ann Arbor
for the Herbert E. Sloan Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Music and
for the Helen and Marvin M. Kirsh Professorship in the Medical School................ 60,000
Smart Family Foundation, Inc., Wilton, Connecticut
for research  in  the  M edical School..............................................50,000
Philip L. Smith, Edwards, Colorado
2,410 shares of Charles Schwab Corporation common stock
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.............................. 25,558
Randee Sorscher Trust
for the Randee Sorscher Landscape Endowment Fund and
the Sidell Slosberg and Samuel Sorscher Scholarship at
the  University  of Michigan-Dearborn..........................................  101,555
Roger H. Stewart, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
for the Dean's Scholarship Fund in the Medical School............................. 10,000
Helene J. Streich, Flint
for support at the University  of Michigan-Flint.................................... 10,000
A. Alfred Taubman Restated Revocable Trust
for the Alfred  Taubman  Scholarship............................................  19,723
James S. Therrell Trust
for student aid in the School of Natural Resources and Environment................... 34,917
Toyota Motor Corporation, Aichi, Japan
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 25,000
Bob Ufer Quarterback Club, Ann Arbor
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics............................. 14,000
United Pediatric Society, Ann Arbor
for the United Pediatric Society Scholarship in the Medical School.................... 10,000
Unity Semiconductor Corporation, Sunnyvale, California
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 10,000
University of Michigan Club of Greater Metropolitan Detroit, Grosse Pointe Woods
for the Detroit University of Michigan Club Scholarship............................ 20,000
Karen S. Van Weelden, Los Angeles, California
for the Karen and Paul Van Weelden Fund in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.............................10,000
Thomas L. Verhake, Sun City West, Arizona
for the Thomas and Alicia Verhake Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Engineering, the Schools of Education and Music and
for other support at the Univ[ersity of Michigan.................................. 30,000
Ellen C. Wagner, Ann Arbor
490 shares of Millicom International Cellular Company common stock
for the Richard A. Epstein Visionar Fund in the Medical School.................... 10,905
Edward H. Wahtera, Breckenridge, Colorado
for the Ac'adernic Center and scholarships in the Department of Athletic 'S................. 10,500
Walgreen Company, Deerfield, Illinois
for support in the College of Pharmacy and the Medical Sc~hool...................... 27,750


167




-villicember Mteeting, 20)04


Gail and Lois Warden Fund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support in the School of Public Health..................................... 12,00
William E. Watch, Troy
for the Real Estate Initiative Fund in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.................. 12,500
Walter J. Weber, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Walter J. Weber, Jr., Professorship in the College of Engineering.............. 130,000
Sanford I. Weill, New York, New York
108,470 shares of Citigroup, Inc., common stock
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy................ 5,000,094
Henry E. and Consuelo S. Wenger, Pound Ridge, New York
for the Architecture Alumni Scholarship Fund in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning................... 15,000
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering....................................... 694,266
Harvey Willens, Rancho Mirage, California
785 shares of J. P. Morgan Chase common stock
for the Harvey Willens Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the Life Sciences Institute.......... 30,450
Joan D. Willson Trust
for the J. Robert Willson Professorship in Obstetrics in the Medical School............. 16,000
Alice J. Zapletal, Ann Arbor
for the Exhibit Museum of Natural History..................................... 30,000
Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:


Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
Analog Devices, Inc., Corporate Division,
Norwood, Massachusetts
Anonymous Donor
APS & Associates, San Francisco, California
Birmingham University of Michigan Alumnae
Club, Bloomfield Hills
Michael Bisson, Farmington Hills
Marjorie Van Eenam Butcher, West Hartford,
Connecticut
Marilou J. Capo, Birmingham
Citibank Delaware, New York, New York
Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America, Inc.,
New York, New York
John G. and Margery M. Davies Charitable Fund
of the Vanguard Charitable Endowment
Program, Southeastern, Pennsylvania
Gary J. Dorman, Los Angeles, California
Elastizell Corporation of America, Ann Arbor
Exxon Mobil Corporation, Irving, Texas
Dalbert W. Fear, Jr., Ann Arbor
Robert J. Gantz, Weston, Connecticut
David M. Gates, Ann Arbor
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
Daniel W. Gerber, Battle Creek
Robert M. Ginn, Cleveland, Ohio
Hank Gniewek Memorial Classic, Brownstown
Guidant Foundation, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
Richard A. Hadler, Ann Arbor
Paul Hamburger, Potomac, Maryland
Edward W. Handley, Jackson
Dorothy S. Harrison, Glencoe, Illinois
Daniel J. Hennessy, Lake Forest, Illinois
International Truck and Engine Corporation, Fort
Wayne, Indiana
Issa Foundations, Ann Arbor
Kelsey-Hayes Company, Livonia
John Kim Charitable Gift Account at the Schwab
Fund for Charitable Giving San Francisco,
California
Lucile M. Kinter, Phoenix, Arizona


Patricia L. Knebel Memorial Fund of the
Pittsburgh Foundation, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania
Marilyn Knepp, Ann Arbor
Koeze's, Wyoming
Joseph M. Kortenhof, Saint Louis, Missouri
Leonard J. Kujawa, Atlanta, Georgia
Joseph A. Lahorra, Beachwood, Ohio
Joseph T. A. and Elsie Choy Lee Fund of the
Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
J. May Liang, Great Falls, Virginia
James W. Lintott and May Liang Foundation,
Great Falls, Virginia
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
Pearson M. Macek, Ann Arbor
Michele Coleman Mayes, Stamford, Connecticut
Stephen J. McClatchey, Ann Arbor
John R. McWilliams, Ann Arbor
Marsha and Jeffrey H. Miro Foundation,
Bloomfield Hills
Muth Company, LLC, Sheboygan, Wisconsin
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc.,
Grand Ledge
Norah N. Naughton, Ann Arbor
William J. Newell, Vancouver, Canada
Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, New Brunswick,
New Jersey
Theodore C. Papes, Jr., Mount Kisco, New York
Jacque H. Passino, Jr., Houston, Texas
Peterson Spring, Southfield
Mildred P. Pickard Estate
Laurence A. Price, Bloomfield Hills
Wendy Raeder, Ann Arbor
Michael B. Raizman, Wellesley, Massachusetts
Sigurd L. and Jarmila M. Rislov Foundation, Ann
Arbor
Georgia S. Rowe, Sun City, Arizona
Richard C. Sanders, Grosse Pointe Farms
Millie Schembechler Memorial Foundation, Ann
Arbor
Arun K. Sharma, Katy, Texas
168




Dellcember Meeting, 2004


Clifford A. Siegel, London, England           Diane C. Swonk, Evanston, Illinois
Square D Foundation, Palatine, Illinois       Bob Ufer Foundation, Ann Arbor
Eric Stein, Ann Arbor                         UGS PLM Solutions, Maryland Heights, Missouri
Alan and Gail Sugar Philanthropic Fund of the  Valeo, Auburn Hills
Jewish Federation of Washtenaw County, Ann  Bruce A. Work, Augusta, Georgia
Arbor                                      Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Philadelphia,
Edward Surovell Realtors, Ann Arbor              Pennsylvania
George Suzuki, Honolulu, Hawaii
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Bruce H. Hasenkamp, Hillsborough, California
a large collection of Korean art for the Museum of Art
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
four HP ZX2000 workstations and various other computer equipment for the College of
Engineering
Nortel Networks Limited, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
advanced test equipment for the College of Engineering
Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids
a Polyvision Impulse LTX multimedia whiteboard system for the College of Engineering
Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effictive on January 1, 2005
Shyy, Wei, Professor of Aerospace Engineering and Chair, Aerospace Engineering, College of
Engineering
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR T"RANSFERS OF REGULAR. ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
E ffxctive on the dates indicated
Baker, Laurence H., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, also appointed Professor of
Pharmacology, without tenure, Medical School, December 1, 2004
Goldman, Rachel, Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, also appointed
Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Casement, Rose A., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Education, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services, January 1, 2005-January 1, 2007
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Renaming Existing Collegiate Professorshipi
Algo D. Henderson Collegiate Professorship in Education, School of Education, December 1, 2004
William H. Payne Collegiate Professorship in Education, School of Education, December 1, 2004
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
A~jooijtment tofColegiateiProIssorships
Mith, Janet L., Margaret J. Hunter Collegiate Professor in the Life Sciences, Life Sciences Institute,
January 1, 2005-December 31, 2009
Silver, Edward A., William A. Brownell Collegiate Professor in Education, School of Education,
December 1, 2004-November 30, 2009
A~ppo~tmentto ainEdowed rofessorsh~i
Nakao, Katsumi, Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1-April 30, 2005


169




Millicember M/eeting, 20)04


Other Transactions
Berguer, Ramon, Frankel Professor in Cardiovascular Surgery, November 1, 2004-October 31, 2009
(previously reported as Frankel Professor in Vascular Surgery)
Herbert, Thomas W., Assistant Vice President for Development, Office of University Development,
January 17, 2005
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Al-Ahdab, Mohamad K., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, November 10, 2004-July 31, 2005
Carney, Michele M., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine and Clinical Instructor in
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, December 1, 2004-November 30, 2005
Hird, Robert B., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, November 1, 2004-October 31, 2005
Kittendorf, Anne L., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School,
September 11, 2004-September 10, 2005
Koh, II W., D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor of Prosthodontics, School of Dentistry,
November 18, 2004-November 17, 2007
Krughoff, Laura E., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Marsik, Frank J., Ph.D., Lecturer in Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, College of Engineering,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Mychaliska, George B., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery and Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, Medical School, November 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Nguyen, Mimi T.H.T., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2006
Paone, Gaetano, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School,
October 13, 2004-August 31, 2005
Summers-Sitarski, Kathleen J., B.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Tobin, Kenneth J., D.O., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
November 15, 2004-November 14, 2005
Vergon, Charles B., J.D., Lecturer in Political Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Weisskopf, Jonah V., B.A., Lecturer in Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Welch, Leseliey R., M.P.H., Lecturer I in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Mandell, Steven H., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School, October 19,
2004-October 18, 2005 (previously reported as Clinical Lecturer in Pathology)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Hsu, Ao-Lin, from Clinical Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
October 1, 2004-September 30, 2008
Joe, Sean, Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, also appointed Assistant Professor
of Psychiatry, Medical School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Keegan, Catherine E.H., from Clinical Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School, November 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Lorincz, Matthew T., from Clinical Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical School,
November 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Mian, Shahzad I., from Clinical Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences,
Medical School, October 1, 2004-July 30, 2005


170




December Meeting, 2004


Shtein, Max, Assistant Professor of Material Sciences and Engineering also appointed Assistant
Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Willette, Thomas C., Assistant Professor of History of Art also appointed Assistant Professor in the
Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Desjardins, Benoit, from Clinical Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School,
December 1, 2004-November 30, 2005
Garrett, Charles H., from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Music, School of Music,
September 1, 2004-December 31, 2007
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Akcasu, Ziyaeddin A., Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Macromolecular Science and
Engineering, College of Engineering, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Cameron, George D., III, Professor Emeritus of Business Law, Stephen M. Ross School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Goldstein, Irwin J., Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2005
Kostyo, Jack L., Professor Emeritus of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2005
Kuczkowski, Robert L., Professor Emeritus of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
October 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Pek, Sumer, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Weg, John G., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 1, 2004-July 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Anspach, Renee, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Womens'
Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, extended sick leave,
October 16-December 31, 2004
Casa, Frank P., Professor of Spanish, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Chapman, J. Wehrley, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2005
Chen, Yan, Associate Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2005
Cigolle, Christine T., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, personal leave,
October 1-31, 2004
Engel, Kirsten G., Clinical Lecturer in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, child care leave,
October 29-December 31, 2004
Eriksson, Johanna U., Lecturer III in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, child care leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Finney, Mary Jo, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Education and
Human Services, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Francis, Jacqueline R., William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of History of Art, Assistant Professor of
History of Art, and Assistant Professor of Afro-American and African Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Frier, Bruce W., Henry King Ransom Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School,
and Professor of Classics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Gelderloos, Orin G., Professor of Biology and Environmental Studies, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Gull, Maria E., Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, personal leave, November 1-December 31, 2004
Hicken, Allen D., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Hinton, Alfred F., Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, retirement furlough,
July 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Hong, Seong B., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of Education,
sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2005


171




Millicember M/eeting, 20)04


Inglehart, Ronald F., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Jackson, Sherman A., Professor of Near Eastern Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Jones, Martha S., Assistant Professor of History and Assistant Professor of Afro-American and African
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Juster, Susan M., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Karni, Smadar, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Kedar, Orin, Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Kelley, Mary C., Ruth Bordin Collegiate Professor of History, American Culture, and Women's Studies,
Professor of History, with tenure, Professor of American Culture, with tenure, and Professor of
Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Kleinsmith, Lewis J., Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough, January 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Kucich, John R., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Lacy, Karyn R., Assistant Professor of Sociology and Assistant Professor of Afro-American and African
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Laitner, John P., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Lassiter, Matthew D., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Lavaque-Manty, Mika T., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Lev, Benjamin, Professor of Decision Science, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2005
Ludlow, Peter, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, and Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Markus, Gregory B., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Moreno, Sergio H., Assistant Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Mrazek, Rudolf, Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Mulhom, Kristine A., Associate Professor of Health Care, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Health
Professions and Studies, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Owen, Robert M., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of Marine Geochemistry, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004,
and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Parsons, Jeffrey R., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, January 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Pichersky, Eran, Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Pole, Nnamdi, Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Proops, lan N., Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Raithel, George A., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Rowley, Stephanie J., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Silverman, Ronald E., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Sinopoli, Carla M., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Soni, Vivasvan, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Stewart, Abigail J., Agnes Inglis Collegiate Professor of Psychology, Professor of Psychology, with
tenure, and Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005


172




'WI&
Millicember Meeting, 2004


Strassmann, Beverly I., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2004
Taylor, Traki L., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Education and
Human Services, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Traugott, Michael W., Professor of Communication Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Van Der Voo, Rob, Frank H.T. Rhodes Collegiate Professor of Geological Sciences and Professor of
Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Wall, Harriet M., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Worch, Eric A., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Education and
Human Services, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Periard, Mary E., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Health Professions
and Studies, retirement furlough, August 16, 2004-August 15, 2005 (previously reported as
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005)
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Chotiprasidhi, Poonputt, Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, October 31, 2004
Morley, Thomas H., Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, January 31, 2005
Richmond, Tracy K., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
June 30, 2004
Robens, Cornelius, Clinical Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, October 29, 2004
Retired
Bilello, John C., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
December 31, 2004
Gray, Robert H., Professor of Environmental Health Services, with tenure, School of Public Health,
December 31, 2004
Greenfield, Lazar, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, November 30, 2004
Hosford, William F., Jr., Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, December 31, 2004
Jensen, Ejner J., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2004
Kleinsmith, Lewis J., Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2004
Mourou, Gerard A., A. D. Moore Distinguished University Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science and Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, December 31, 2004
White, B. Joseph, Wilbur K. Pierpont Collegiate Professor of Leadership in Management Education and
Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
January 31, 2005
Term Completed
Saavedra, Richard, Lecturer in Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management, Stephen M.
Ross School of Business, and Lecturer I in Organizational Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, August 31, 2004
Stino, Laila E., Lecturer II in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 20, 2004
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted nine faculty retirement
memoirs and called attention to the retirements of former interim executive vice
president for medical affairs Lazar Greenfield and interim secretary of the University
Professor Ejner Jensen. Provost Courant highlighted the retirements of George
Carignan of the College of Engineering and Robert Gray of the School of Public Health.


173




December Meeting, 2004


Rashid L. Bashshur, Ph.D., project director of Clinical Information Systems in
the University of Michigan Hospitals Telemedicine Program and professor of health
management and policy in the School of Public Health, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Bashshur earned his B.A. and M.A. degrees from the American
University of Beirut in 1954 and 1956, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree from the
University of Michigan in 1963. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as
research associate in 1963 and served in that capacity until 1972. Professor Bashshur
was also appointed as a lecturer in 1966 and was promoted to associate professor in
1968 and professor in 1977. From 1978-79 he was acting chair of the Department of
Medical Care Organization, and in 1998 he was appointed director of Clinical
Information Systems in the Telemedicine Center.
Professor Bashshur conducted some of the earliest research on the determinants
of choice of health plans by individuals for whom prepaid group practice plans were
among the options. He also studied the effect of geographic distance on the use of
medical and mental health services, and he later extended this line of work to more
general issues related to access to medical care, including lack of health insurance and
underinsurance.
A pioneer in his field, Professor Bashshur's contributions to the development
and evaluation of telemedicine systems span a period of over thirty years and have
earned him an international reputation. For the last six years, Professor Bashshur has
devoted his full energy to telemedicine. He has published extensively on the effects of
telemedicine on accessibility, quality, and cost of health care services. He is editor and
cofounder of the Telemedicine Journal, and he was senior editor of three reports on
telemedicine submitted to the U.S. Congress. Professor Bashshur was elected president
of the American Telemedicine Association in 2000, co-chaired the 2001 International
State-of-the-Art Symposium on Telemedicine/Telehealth, and organized the Second
International Symposium, "Future Directions for Telemedicine," in 2004.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Rashid L. Bashshur
professor emeritus of health management and policy.
John C. Bilello, Ph.D., professor of materials science and engineering in the
College of Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 2004.
A native of Brooklyn, New York, Professor Bilello received his B.Met.E. and
M.S. degrees from New York University in 1960 and 1962, respectively, and his Ph.D.
degree from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1965. From 1965-67, he
was an advanced research engineer at General Telephone and Electronics Laboratories
in New York.    He joined the faculty of the materials science and engineering
department at the State University of New York at Stony Brook as an assistant
professor in 1967 and was promoted to associate professor in 1971 and professor in
1975. From 1977-81 he served as dean of the School of Engineering and Applied
Sciences at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, and he was the director of
the Synchrotron Topography Project from 1980-86 and dean of the School of
Engineering and Computer Science at California State University-Fullerton from
1986-89. Professor Bilello joined the University of Michigan faculty as professor of
materials science and engineering in 1989, and he also served as professor of applied
physics from 1989-96.


174




December Meeting, 2004


Professor Bilello is recognized as an expert in the use of high intensity x-ray
diffraction imaging, microdiffraction, grazing angle incidence scattering, and other
associated techniques as a tool for non-destructive materials characterization. These
techniques have been used to study a wide range of problems in metals, alloys, and
semiconductors where it is necessary to control the structure-property relationships on
both the micro and macro scale to achieve improved performance or to create new
materials. Currently, Professor Bilello's research is focused on surface and interface
studies in controlling the fabrication and mechanical properties of thin films and
multilayer nanocomposites and on the role of grain boundaries in fatigue and fracture.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar and teacher by naming John C.
Bilello professor emeritus of materials science and engineering.
George R. Carignan, research scientist in the Space Physics Research
Laboratory in the College of Engineering, interim director of the Sea Grant Program in
the School of Natural Resources, and faculty associate in the Office of the Vice
President for Research, retired from active faculty status on March 31, 2004.
Mr. Carignan came to the University of Michigan as a research assistant in
1959. He was promoted to assistant research engineer in 1961, associate research
engineer in 1962, research engineer in 1963, and research scientist in 1973. He also
served as a lecturer from 1962-66 and adjunct professor from 1985-2001. Mr. Carignan
was director of the Space Physics Research Laboratory from 1963-1984, associate chair
of the Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences from 1985-89, special
assistant to the dean for research from 1987-89, interim associate dean for research
from 1989-91, and associate dean for graduate education and research from 1991-98.
He was appointed interim director of the Sea Grant Program in 2000 and faculty
associate for the Office of the Vice President for Research in 2003.
For over two decades, Mr. Carignan has been active in experimental research in
earth and planetary exploration with particular emphasis on the application of langmuir
probes and mass spectrometers.    His particular field of expertise, scientific
instrumentation and design, has had a significant impact on the education of thousands
of students. Mr. Carignan has served as project director and principal investigator on
numerous major research programs and is one of the preeminent researchers in the
College of Engineering.
Mr. Carignan is a member of the American Geophysical Union, the Tethered
Satellite Science Steering Group, the Shuttle Science Group of the N.A.S.A. Advisory
Council, the Scientific Council of Universities Space Research Association, and the
National Academy of Sciences. He has authored more than 50 refereed publications
and is co-author of numerous articles. In 1997, he was awarded the N.A.S.A.
Exceptional Scientific Achievement Medal.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming George R. Carignan
research scientist emeritus.
Robert H. Gray, Ph.D., professor of environmental health sciences and
research scientist in the School of Public Health, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 2004.
Professor Gray received his B.S.Ed. and M.S. degrees from Ohio University in
1960 and 1962, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Illinois in
1967. From 1967-69, he was a post-doctoral fellow at the University of Wisconsin.
Professor Gray joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in


175




ecember Meeting, 2004


1969 and was appointed research associate in 1971. He was promoted to assistant
research scientist in 1974, associate professor in 1975, associate research scientist in
1978, and professor and research scientist in 1979.
An active participant in the school's administration, Professor Gray was chair of
the Department of Environmental and Industrial Health from 1986-91 and served as
assistant dean for curriculum from 1991-93, associate dean for curriculum and student
affairs from 1993-1996, associate dean for research and facilities from 1996-97, and
senior associate dean for research and facilities from 1997-2004. Professor Gray
brought energy and creativity to the dean's office and helped lead efforts to secure
research funding for the faculty. His leadership was instrumental in planning for
construction of the new School of Public Health building.
Professor Gray is a highly respected teacher and researcher. His main interests
and expertise lie in the area of toxicologic pathology and the use of ultrastructural
comparisons made by electron microscopy to characterize cellular and tissue responses
of selected environmental contaminants and pharmaceutical agents.  He is also
interested in the area of global change (global warming, ozone depletion, environmental
pollution, and population expansion) and its potential effects on human health.
Professor Gray's experience in using electron microscopy to investigate research
problems in industrial and environmental health have brought him into numerous
collaborative relationships and service activities throughout the University, the state,
and the nation.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Robert H. Gray
professor emeritus of environmental health sciences and research scientist emeritus.
Lazar J. Greenfield, M.D., professor of surgery in the Medical School, retired
from active faculty status on November 30, 2004.
Dr. Greenfield attended Rice University from 1951-1954, received his M.D.
degree from Baylor University in 1958, and continued his training at the Johns Hopkins
Hospital from 1958-66. From 1966-74, he was a faculty member at the University of
Oklahoma Medical Center and chief of the surgical service at the Oklahoma City
Veteran's Administration Hospital. In 1974, Dr. Greenfield was appointed the Stuart
McGuire Professor and chair of the Department of Surgery at Virginia Commonwealth
University. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan in 1987 as professor of
surgery and chair of the Department of Surgery. He was named the Frederick A. Coller
Professor of Surgery in 1989 and was the Frederick A. Coller Distinguished Professor
of Surgery from 1997-2002. From 2002-03, he served as interim executive vice
president for medical affairs.
During his 15 years as department chair, Dr. Greenfield developed an outstanding
surgery program that rose to rank fourth in research funding from the National Institutes
of Health. An accomplished clinician, he is recognized as an expert in vascular surgery
and developed an intracaval filter device for preventing pulmonary embolism that bears
his name. He has lectured extensively in the United States and abroad.
Dr. Greenfield served on the editorial board of 15 scientific journals and is a
member or honorary member of more than 50 professional societies. He is a Fellow of
the American College of Surgeons and has served as director of the American Board of
Surgery and chair of the national ACGME-Residency Review Committee for Surgery.
In 1995, Dr. Greenfield was elected to the Institute of Medicine of the National
Academy of Science.


176




December Meeting, 2004


The Regents now salute this distinguished medical scholar for his dedicated
service by naming Lazar J. Greenfield professor emeritus of surgery.
William F. Hosford, Jr., Sc.D., professor of materials and metallurgical
engineering in the College of Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 2004.
A native of Orange, New Jersey, Professor Hosford received his B.S. degree
from Lehigh University in 1950, his M.E. degree from Yale University in 1951, and his
Sc.D. degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1959. He was a trainee
at the General Electric Company from 1951-53, and he served as a lieutenant in the
U.S. Army Signal Corps from 1953-55. Professor Hosford joined the faculty at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology as an instructor in 1957 and was promoted to
assistant professor in 1959. He came to the University of Michigan as an associate
professor in 1963 and was promoted to professor in 1968.
An inspiring teacher and researcher, Professor Hosford is recognized as an
expert in the areas of mechanical properties and metal forming and has an outstanding
record of service to the University of Michigan. His research interests include the
quantitative relationship between anisotropic yielding behavior and crystallographic
texture, forming sheet metal and the dependence of sheet formability on plastic
anisotropy, theory and experimentation of forming limit diagrams, forming deformation
textures in bcc metals, and spheroidization of medium carbon steels.
Professor Hosford has published over 75 technical articles and 2 textbooks
during his career. He was elected as a fellow of ASM International in 1988, and he has
been a senior member of the Minerals, Metals, and Materials Society since 1990. In
1998, Professor Hosford recieved the Albert Easton White Distinguished Teacher
Award for his long and devoted service to teaching and to the field of materials science
and engineering.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming William F. Hosford, Jr.,
professor emeritus of materials and metallurgical engineering.
Ejner J. Jensen, Ph.D., professor of English language and literature in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 2004.
Professor Jensen earned his B.A. degree from Carleton College in 1959 and his
M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Tulane University in 1960 and 1965, respectively. He
joined the University of Michigan faculty as an instructor in 1964 and was promoted to
assistant professor in 1965, associate professor in 1970, and professor in 1979.
In both teaching and service, Professor Jensen's interests have extended beyond
the drama of the English renaissance through his thoughtful and influential reflections
on the education of young people and how they should experience poetry, drama, and
fiction. In the 1980s, he joined a team organized by the College Board to recommend
practices for Advanced Placement courses in high schools, and he was chief reader for
the AP exams for the Educational Testing Service from 1984-87. In 1983, Professor
Jensen convened an international conference on George Orwell's dystopian novel,
Nineteen Eighty-Four, to see which of the predictions Orwell had made in 1948 still
merited attention. Of the several volumes then published to examine Orwell's vision,
Professor Jensen's is by far the broadest and most thought provoking.
Professor Jensen's remarkable devotion to the University of Michigan became
evident early in his career. He served as a member of the department's executive


177




ecember Meeting, 2004


committee for 18 years, was director of First and Second Year Studies from 1997-2002,
and he was called upon regularly to serve on review and search committees. In 1992-93
he served as chair of SACUA. From 1994-97, he held the post of special counsel to the
president, and he served as interim secretary of the University in 1995. That year, he
also organized and published Changing in a World of Change: The University and Its
Public. Professor Jensen concluded his administrative service by directing the Gayle
Morris Sweetland Writing Center from 2002-03.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar, teacher, and administrator by
naming Ejner J. Jensen professor emeritus of English language and literature.
Lewis J. Kleinsmith, Ph.D., professor of molecular, cellular, and developmental
biology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active
faculty status on December 31, 2004.
Professor Kleinsmith received his B.S. degree from the University of Michigan in
1964 and his Ph.D. degree from Rockefeller University in 1968. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty as assistant professor of zoology (now molecular,
cellular, and developmental biology) in 1968 and was promoted to associate professor in
1971 and professor in 1974. He was also professor of chemistry from 1979-86, research
scientist in developmental and reproductive biology from 1985-98, and faculty
counselor in the Comprehensive Studies Program from 1986-88.
In his research, Professor Kleinsmith made one of the earliest attempts to reveal
the mechanism of gene regulation. As a graduate student, he and colleagues discovered
that proteins in the cell nucleus react with phosphate molecules in the course of
activation of genes.  At Michigan, he worked to further elucidate the role of
phosphorylation of proteins of the cell nucleus in regulation of gene expression. This
area of study has become recognized as one of the most important issues in cell biology
and will improve our understanding of the molecular changes underlying cancer
development.
Professor Kleinsmith was a popular and innovative teacher of introductory biology
for many years and also taught an extremely popular course on the biology of cancer.
He believed every student could learn at a high level, and he avidly developed
educational tools to help his students succeed. In the early 1980s, he recognized the
potential power of personal computers in education, and he developed an extensive
array of educational software. He is the author of an introductory cell biology textbook
that is now in its 5th edition, and he authored several informational reports distributed
by the National Cancer Institute to the general public. Professor Kleinsmith was
awarded an Arthur F. Thurnau Professorship in 1988. He is a fellow of the American
Association for the Advancement of Science and has received numerous other honors.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Lewis J. Kleinsmith
professor emeritus of molecular, cellular, and developmental biology.
Gerard A. Mourou, Ph.D., A.D. Moore Distinguished University Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, professor of electrical engineering and
computer science, and director of the Center for Ultrafast Optical Science in the College
of Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 2004.
Professor Mourou received his B.S. degree from the University of Grenoble
(1967), his M.S. degree from the University of Orsay (1970), and his Ph.D. degree from
the University of Paris VII (1973). Following postdoctoral research at San Diego State
University, he served at the Ecole Polytechnique in Paris (1974-77) and the Laboratory


178




December Meeting, 2004


for Laser Energetics at the University of Rochester (1977-88). He joined the University
of Michigan faculty as a professor in 1988 and was appointed the A.D. Moore
Distinguished University Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science in
1996.
Professor Mourou has brought great distinction to the University through his
outstanding achievements in research and scientific leadership. In 1991, he founded the
Ultrafast Science Laboratory (now the National Science Foundation Science and
Technology Center for Ultrafast Optical Science (CUOS)), and he has directed the
center since its inception. Under Professor Mourou's direction, CUOS has been at the
forefront of many fields, such as ultrafast and high-peak power lasers, ultrafast solid
state physics and electronics, and chemical dynamics, and the center has provided
students with unparalleled research experiences. His research groups made significant
contributions to the field and introduced several powerful techniques such as chirped
pulse amplification, which revolutionized the field of laser-matter interaction.
Among Professor Mourou's numerous awards and recognitions are the R.W.
Wood Prize, the Harold E. Edgerton Award, the IEEE D. Sarnoff Award, the
IEEE/LEOS Quantum     Electronics Award, and the University's Henry Russel
Lectureship. He is a Fellow of IEEE and the Optical Society of America and a member
of the National Academy of Engineering.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming G6rard A. Mourou the
Arthur D. Moore Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science and professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer
science.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported this month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by
Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
The Regents then turned to consideration of the regular agenda.
Fiscal Year 2006 Capital Outlay Submission, All Campuses
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that the annual Capital Outlay Request and
Five Year Master Plan had been submitted to the state in November 2004. The Ann
Arbor request included three projects: a new biology building, Ruthven Museum
renovations, and Hatcher Graduate Library renovations. The Dearborn campus had
submitted one project, construction of a new facility to house its Child Development
Center, and the Flint campus did not request any capital outlay funding this cycle.
Sale of Gifted Real Estate
Executive Vice President Slottow informed the Regents of the sale of an unimproved
lot in Rochester Hills, Michigan, for $100,000, above the appraised value of $80,000.
Alternative Asset Commitments (Oak Investment Partners XI, L.P.; Chengwei
Ventures Evergreen Fund, L.P.; Battery Ventures VII, L.P., and Accel IX, L.P.)
Executive Vice President Slottow informed the Regents that follow-on investments
had been made in the following previously-approved venture capital partnerships: Oak


179




December Meeting, 2004


Investment Partners XI, L.P. ($20.0 million); Chengwei Ventures Evergreen Fund, L.P.
($14.0 million); Battery Ventures VII, L.P. ($10.0 million); and Accel IX, L.P. ($5.0
million).
Alternative Asset Commitment (NIAM Nordic Investment Fund III, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of ~20.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
NIAM Nordic Investment Fund III, L.P., a European real estate fund.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Cypress Reatly, V, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $20 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Cypress Realty V L.P., a domestic real estate fund.
Absolute Return Investment
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved Ashmore Local Currency Debt Portfolio with initial funding of up
to $60 million.
W.K. Kellogg Institute and Dental Building Fire Alarm System Upgrade and Fire
Suppression System Installation
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the W.K. Kellogg Institute and Dental Building Fire Alarm
System Upgrade and Fire Suppression System Installation Project as described and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that
bids are within the approved budget.
Intramural Sports Building Fire Suppression System Installation
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the Intramural Sports Building Fire Suppression System
Installation Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Couzens Hall Fire Alarm System Upgrade
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that this project is one of a series of
investments in the residence halls that is part of the $49 million residence halls life safety
improvement effort approved several years ago. He reported that 14 projects in 12
residence halls have now been completed, and 18 additional projects are planned over the
next several years. This effort has now been integrated with the overall Residential Life
Initiative.
Regent White moved approval of the Couzens Hall Fire Alarm System Upgrade
Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget. Regent
Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.


180




ecember Meeting, 2004


202 South Thayer Building Project
Executive Vice President Slottow reported that this project is related to the
Residential Life Initiative (RLI). The proposed building at 202 South Thayer Street will
accommodate the permanent relocation of occupants in the Department of Asian
Languages and Culture, the Frankel Center for Judaic Studies, and the Department of
Near-Eastern Studies, all of whom are currently located in the Frieze Building and will be
displaced by construction of the new residence hall and academic space on that site to be
known as "north quad."
Provost Courant commented that this building site is across from the Modem
Languages Building and is expected to become the center for modern languages, some
international studies, the humanities, and arts. In addition to the departments listed
above, the new building will house the Humanities Institute and will hold specialized
libraries and collections and classrooms associated with the departments that will be
located there. It was noted that the building will be six stories tall.
Regent McGowan moved approval of the 202 South Thayer Building project as
described, authorized commissioning Diamond Schmitt Architects for its design and
authorized issuing early procurement packages for bids and awarding construction
contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.  Regent Brandon
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) East Ann Arbor
Computed Tomography and Magnetic Resonance Imaging Expansion Project
Mr. Scott Hayward, from Albert Kahn Associates, gave a presentation describing the
proposed schematic design for this project. Mr. Hayward displayed a site plan for the
East Ann Arbor properties, then described the floor plan for this project, which is an
addition to the existing building. He then described the exterior.
It was noted that Certificate of Need approval would be obtained before the
initiation of construction. On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent
McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved the schematic design for the University
of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) East Ann Arbor Computed
Tomography and Magnetic Resonance Imaging Expansion Project as presented at the
meeting.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes 4 conflict of interest items,
each of which requires 6 votes for approval. On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded
by Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously approved each of the following items:
Purchasing Contract with Valley View Farm
The Regents approved a payment to Valley View Farm to provide board and
maintenance for sheep for a project in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
"Prenatal Programming of Reproductive Health and Disease." Because Douglas Doop,
owner of Valley View Farm, is also a University of Michigan employee, this purchase
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:


181




Millicember M/eeting, 20)04


1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Valley View Farm.
2.   The service to be provided is boarding and maintenance of sheep for the purpose of
medical research, for a two-year period, and for a total amount of $65,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Douglas Doop, a University of
Michigan employee, is owner of Valley View Farm.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Molecular
Therapeutics
The Regents approved a license agreement with Molecular Therapeutics for a
computer software program known as "Miami Fuse" (OTT File No. 1297). Because Drs.
Brian Ross and Alnawaz Rehemtulla, owners of Molecular Therapeutics, are also
University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Molecular Therapeutics.
2.   The terms of the contract include an up-front license fee and a percentage of
sublicense revenues. The University will retain ownership of the licensed software
technology and may continue to further develop it and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities nor any assignment of University employees
is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees
and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Drs. Brian Ross and Alnawaz
Rehemtulla, University of Michigan employees, own Molecular Therapeutics.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and EMAG
Technologies, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with EMAG Technologies, Inc., for
research designed to produce new techniques for the detection and removal of Radio
Frequency Interface (RFI) in microwave radiometers. Because Dr. Kamal Sarabandi,
co-founder and co-owner of EMAG Technologies, Inc., is also a University of Michigan
employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and EMAG
Technologies, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The project is for six
months and the funding support is $23,363. Since research agreements are often
amended, the subcontract includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope.
University of Michigan procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and
additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Kamal Sarabandi, a University of
Michigan employee, is co-founder and co-owner of EMAG Technologies, Inc.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and EMAG
Technologies, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with EMAG Technologies, Inc., for
research designed to produce a new type of calibration standard to aid in the
characterization and calibration of correlating radiometers. Because Dr. Kamal Sarabandi,
co-founder and co-owner of EMAG Technologies, Inc., is also a University of Michigan


182




Millicember M/eeting, 20)04


employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and EMAG
Technologies, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The project is for two years
and the funding support is $280,324. Since research agreements are often amended,
the subcontract includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope. University
of Michigan procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and additional
review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Kamal Sarabandi, a University of
Michigan employee, is co-founder and co-owner of EMAG Technologies, Inc.
Henry Russel Lecturer for 2005
President Coleman informed the Regents that William Fulton, Miner S. and Mary
Ann Keeler Professor in Mathematics and professor of mathematics in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, had been selected as the Henry Russel Lecturer for
2005.
Henry Russel Awards for 2005
President Coleman informed the Regents that the Russel Awards Faculty Advisory
Committee had selected two faculty members to receive Henry Russel Awards for 2005:
David T. Blaauw, associate professor of electrical engineering and computer science in
the College of Engineering, and Anna Stefanopoulou, associate professor of mechanical
engineering in the College of Engineering.
Regents Bylaws, Chapters II and XI
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
approved "housekeeping" revisions to Regents' Bylaws Chapters II and XI. The revisions
can be found in the appendix on page 185.
Approval of Academic Calendar for 2005-2006, 2006-2007, and 2007-2008 for the
University of Michigan-Flint Campus
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved academic calendars for 2005-2006, 2006-2007, and 2007-2008 for
the University of Michigan-Flint campus.
Establishing a new Department of Communication and Visual Arts in the College
of Arts and Sciences at the University of Michigan-Flint
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved establishment of a new Department of Communication and Visual
Arts in the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Michigan-Flint. The
program in art would be separated from the Department of Music and Art and moved into
this new department.


183




December Meeting, 2004


Establishing a new Department of Music in the College of Arts and Sciences at the
University of Michigan-Flint
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved renaming the Department of Music and Art the Department of
Music, as described in the Regents Communication.
There was a five-minute break prior to starting the Public Comments session,
which began at 4:35 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Jim Mogensen, citizen, on the town-gown
relationship and constitutional autonomy, and from David Boyle, alumnus, on stadiums,
segregation, and Sodom. They also heard from the following individuals regarding plans
for the Frieze Building: Jeremiah Mason, student; Louisa Pieper, alumna; Normal Tyler,
citizen; Caroline Smith, citizen; Christine Crockett, citizen and president of the Old
Fourth Ward Association; and Raymond Detter, citizen and chair of the Citizens Advisory
Council for the Downtown Development Authority.
Regent White commented that given the history of the Frieze Building, the
architects selected for the new project should be instructed to consider all options.
Regent Newman agreed, while noting that it is also important to look at the cost of the
various options.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 5:20 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for January 26, 2005.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


184




DECEMBER 2004 - APPENDIX A


REGENTS BYLAWS "HOUSEKEEPING" REVISIONS
CHAPTERS II AND XI
Note: Additions are underlined; deletions are crossed out. In bylaws listed by title only
and marked with a *, all instances of the word "shall" have been replaced with "will."
CHAPTER II
UNIVERSITY EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
Sec. 2.01. The President
In addition to the duties and functions otherwise provided for in these bylaws, the
president of the university sha,4will exercise such general powers not inconsistent with
the applicable laws of the state of Michigan and these bylaws as are inherent in a chief
executive; including, without limitation, general oversight of the teaching and research
programs; the libraries, museums, and other supporting services; the general welfare of
the faculty and supporting staff; the business and financial welfare of the University;
and the maintenance of health, diligence, and order among the students.
The president is and 4shaKwill always be a member of the University Senate and of each
of the governing faculties of the University.
The president, the chancellors of the University at Dearborn and at Flint, and the vice
presidents hereinafter named, Uand the secretay of the university constitute the executive
officers of the University.
All executive officers of the University sh4awill perform their duties under the general
direction of the president. (See also Sec. 1.06.)
Sec. 2.02. The University of Michigan-Dearborn: The Chancellor *
Sec. 2.03. The University of Michigan-Flint: The Chancellor *
Sec. 2.04. The Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs (revised
The provost and executive vice president for academic affairs shallwil be the chief
academic and budget officer for the Ann Arbor campus of the University of Michigan.
In this capacity, the provost and executive vice president for academic affairs shawill
exercise gener. l executive responsibility in onnection with for the Ann Arbor campus
educational programs and supporting activities. of the Uivrsiy in An  Arbr ad th
administrative subdiv ". 1,visions by which they ar. con,.ducted. The provost and....executive.vice president for academic affairs shall serve as chair of the Committee on Budget
The following positions will report directly to the provost and executive vice president
for academic affairs: the deans of the schools and colleges and of the Division of
Kinesiology (the dean of the Medical School reports jointly to the provost and
executive vice president for academic affairs and to the executive vice president for
medical affairs), the director of the Institute of Social Research, the Universitvlibrarian,


185




December Meeting, 2004 - Appendix


the director of the Museum of Art, and other administrative offices as determined by the
president and the executive officers.
The provost and executive vice president for academic affairs shawll be a member,
without vote, of each of the governing faculties. The provost and executive vice
president for academic affairs will recommend faculty appointments, promotions and
tenure actions to the president for action by the Board of Regents. (Sce-als+~feSee. -1)
Sec. 2.05. The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer *
Sec. 2.06. The Executive Vice President for Medical Affairs
The executive vice president for medical affairs will be the chief executive officer of
the University of Michigan Health System with responsibility for and leadership of the
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers, Michigan Health Corporation,
and M-Care, and, with the provost and executive vice president for academic affairs, the
University of Michigan Medical School.
The Hospitals and Health Centers director and chief executive officer will report
directly to the executive vice president for medical affairs and will be appointed upon
recommendation of the executive vice president for medical affairs to the president for
action by the Board of Regents. The Medical School dean will jointly report to the
executive vice president for medical affairs and the provost and executive vice president
for academic affairs, and will be appointed upon the joint recommendation of the
executive vice president for medical affairs and the provost and executive vice president
for academic affairs to the president for action by the Board of Regents.
The executive vice president for medical affairs will recommend faculty appointments,
promotions and tenure actions for the Medical School to the provost. The executive
vice president for medical affairs will have responsibility for salary approvals, strategic
and business planning, direction of clinical delivery systems, and management support
services: overall management of patient care and establishment of health system
planning, objectives and goals; development of capital and operating budgets which
maintain the financial strength of the Health System; and managing relationships with
affiliate organizations.
The executive vice president for medical affairs will have the authority up to the
threshold amounts established by the president to execute contracts and to approve
expenditures not in the approved annual operating budget. The executive vice president
for medical affairs may delegate in writing to designated representatives authority to
execute contracts relating to the Health System.
Sec. 2.0607. The Vice President for Government Relations *
Sec. 2.0708. The Vice President for Research
The vice president for research shallwill exercise general executive responsibility for
the research programs of the University and shallwill assist and advise the president
and the Board in all matters pertaining to the research programs and activities of the
University.
The vice president for research shallwill exercise executive responsibility for the review
of recommendations of the deans, directors, or other heads of schools, colleges, and


186




December Meeting, 2004 - Appendix


other educational and research units with respect to research proposals, research
budgets, and appointment of personnel under research budgets.
The vice president for research sha4will be responsible for the maintenance of. 
maintaining appropriate liaisons between the University and foundations, governmental
agencies, and other organizations providing financial support for University research.
The vice president for research sha4 will advise and assist University staff members in
approaches to outside agencies for research funds, and the vice president for research
shallwill be advised of all such approaches made by staff members on behalf of the
University.
Sec. 2.0809. The Vice President for Development (revised- April 1995)
The vice president for development 4hal-will be responsible for creating and sustaining
relationships among perfo. such duties with respect to matters pertaig to
relations between the University, its alumni and the people and institutions of the State
of Michigan and elsewhere to obtain private support of the institution; for events to
support the University's development activities; for maintaining donor and alumni
information; and for the administration of the University's development programs as
shall,be assigned from time to tie as directed by the president.
The vice president for development shall act as development counsel to the Board, the
president, and the policy making bodies of the University, and shall be responsible for
Sec. 2.0910. The Vice President for Student Affairs (reviseod Aril 1992)
The vice president for student affairs shaltwill be the chief administrative officer of the
Office of Student Affairs; shal.will designate heads of the various units of the Office of
Student Affairs wi:t ta       the S.L._tudent Affairs Polc  oa;:l  i  D;X%4 and s haltwill
advise the Board, the president, the governing faculties, and other appropriate agencies
concerning student affairs and student services in general. (See also Sec. 7.04.)
Sec. 2.4011. The Vice President and Secretary of the University
Under the direction of the president, the vice president and secretary of the university
will coordinate the business affairs of the Board and facilitate effective communication
between the members of the Board and the executive officers.
The vice president and secretary of the university shllwill be responsible to the Board,
of wvich the presdent is the chair, and shawill perform such functions as may be
necessary for the proper and legal exercise of the Board's authority. The vice president
and secretary of the university will duly execute for and on behalf of the "Regents of
the University of Michigan" or the "University of Michigan" such instruments and
documents which would devolve to a corporate officer and would be usual to that
office.
The vice president and secretary of the university will be the official custodian of the
minutes and all supporting documents thereto of the Board of Regents; and of the Seal
of the University of Michigan. The vice president and secretary of the university will.
in consultation with the vice president and general counsel, determine the


187




December Meeting, 2004 - Appendix
appropriateness of the use of the Seal by parties within and outside the University.-and
ause its imprint to be placed whenever appropriate.
The vice president and secretary of the university wsha4 ll perform such other duties as
the Board or the president may assign and shall, in additio,, be an assistant to,
pres4ent. (See also Sec. 1.06.)
Sec. 2.12. The Vice President and General Counsel
Under the direction of the Board and the president, the vice president and general
counsel will conduct the legal affairs of and provide legal advice and representation for
the University. When necessary and appropriate, the vice president and general counsel
will contract for and manage outside legal services.
Sec. 2.13 The Vice President for Communications
The vice president for communications will be responsible for planning, directing and
managing the public relations and communications program, will serve as an advisor for
special events, and will manage the following units: the Freedom of Information
Office, Office of Marketing Communications, Media Relations and Public Affairs, the
News Service, and Michigan Public Media.
The vice president for communications will be a member of the senior management
team and will advise deans, directors, executive officers and the president regarding
communications.
The vice president for communications or a designee will generally serve as a
University spokesperson as well as plan and direct a comprehensive communications
program to inform constituents and the public of the University's activities, goals and
needs.
Sec. 2.11. Committee on Budget Administration (revised November 1993)
The Committee on Budget Administration shall consist of the executive officers of the
University. The provost and executive vice president for academic affairs shall seve as
recommendation to t      l othr of tl e aninual request for a legislative appropriation and
Sec.22.2.12. Committee on Plant Extension (revised November 1993)
The Committee on Plant Extension shLall consist of the executive officers of the
Sec. 2.1314. Appointments *
Sec. 2.1415. Oath of Office
Each employee of the state of Michigan and its agencies is required by law to subscribe
to the following constitutional oath of office before beginning his or her duties: "I do


solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the United States of


188




December Meeting, 2004 - Appendix


America and the Constitution of the State of Michigan, and that I will faithfully
discharge the duties of my position and subsequent positions according to the best of
my ability."
Sec. 2.1516. Gifts to Regents, Offikers. and Faetlty University Employees
No individual Regent, officer, member of the fac, or other University employee
sha1_will accept any gift of substantial value from t an student, or students enrolled
in the University, and no such person shall accept a gift of substantial value fm or any
person having business relations with the University, or anyone else based upon the
Regent's or employee's position at the University.
Sec. 2.1617. The Powers and Duties of the Officers and Committees
The powers and duties of the officers and committees conferred upon them by the
provisions of existing bylaws 4shawll be in addition to the powers and duties conferred
upon them by the provisions of this Chapter II.
Any existing bylaw which is inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter II is
hereby expressly repealed.
CHAPTER XI
THE SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES
AND AFFILIATED UNITS
Sec. 11.01 The A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Executive Committee *
Sec. 11.02 The School of Art and Design Executive Committee * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.03 The Stephen M. Ross School of Business Executive Committee *
(renumbered)
Sec. 11.04 The Stephen M. Ross School of Business Division of Research *
(renumbered)
Sec. 11.05 The Stephen M. Ross School of Business Division of Executive
Education * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.06 The University of Michigan-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee *
(renumbered)
Sec. 11.07 The University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters Executive Committee * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.08 The University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Education Executive
Committee * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.-3311.09. The University of Michigan-Dearborn: Sehool College of
Engineering and Computer Science Executive Committee
The executive committee shallwill consist of the dean and four faculty members of
senate rank to be appointed by the Regents on recommendation by the chancellor and
the president. The appointed members s4oawill not be eligible for reappointment until
after the lapse of one year. The terms shallwill be for two years and shallwill be so


189




December Meeting, 2004 - Appendix


adjusted that two vacancies sha+lwill occur each year. The dean halwill chair the
committee.
Sec. 11.10 The University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Management
Executive Committee * (renumbered)
Sec. 110411.11. The School of Dentistry Executive Committee
The executive committee shallwill consist of the dean and six members of the faculty of
professorial rank to be appointed by the Board on recommendation by the president.
The appointed members shalwill not be eligible for reappointment until after the lapse
of one year. The terms shatlwill be so adjusted that two shalwill expire each year. The
dean shal4will chair of the committee.
Sec. 11.04111.12. The School of Dentistry Laboratories, Dental Clinic, and the
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
The School of Dentistry may establish such laboratories as are necessary for instruction,
investigation, and research in dentistry. The facilities of the school may be used for the
purpose of a dental clinic. The members of the faculty of the school may operate oral
surgery clinics in the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers.
Sec. 11.13 The School of Dentistry: Dental Hygienists * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.14 The School of Education Executive Committee * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.15 The School of Education: Courses for the Training of Teachers of
Kinesiology * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.16 The School of Education Teacher's Certificate * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.17 The College of Engineering Executive Committee * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.18 The University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Executive Committee * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.19 The University of Michigan-Flint School of Management Executive
Committee * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.20 The University of Michigan-Flint Citizens Advisory Committee *
(renumbered)
Sec. 11.21 The University of Michigan-Flint School of Education and Human
Services Executive Committee * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.22 The Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies: The Dean and
the Executive Board * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.23 The Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies: Institutes and
Bureaus * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.24 The Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies: Institute for
Human Adjustment * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.25 The University of Michigan Press * (renumbered)


190




December Meeting, 2004 - Appendix


Sec. 11.26 The University of Michigan Press: Director and Executive Committee
* (renumbered)
Sec. 11.27 The Law School: The Dean * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.28 The Law School: The Lawyers Club * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.29 The School of Information: The Dean * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.30 The College of Literature, Science, and the Arts: The Executive
Committee * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.31 The College of Literature, Science, and the Arts: Laboratories and
Museum Collections * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.32 The College of Literature, Science, and the Arts: Exhibit Museums *
(renumbered)
Sec. 11.33 The College of Literature, Science, and the Arts: Astronomical
Observatories * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.34 The College of Literature, Science, and the Arts: The Edwin S. George
Reserve * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.35 The College of Literature, Science, and the Arts: The Biological
Station * (renumbered)
Sec. -.1211.36. The University of Michigan Medical Center Health System
The term, "the University of Michigan Medical Center Health System," deseribesthe
mplex of build   s and activities includd in te Mdical S olincludes, the-Sho
oft Nursin, the University of Michigan Medical School, the University of Michigan
Hospitals and Health Centers, M-Care, and the Michigan Health Corporation an,
M- are, all functioning cooperatively in teaching, research, and patient care.
Sec. 11.121. Vice Provot fr Medical A*c ffeairs (revised Nvember 193)
The vice provost for medical affairs, responsible to the provost and executive vice
the president. The vice provost for medical affairs shall exercise executive
matters, includingJ planing and budget, academic programs and objectives, and all
Sec. 11.37 Th    e Medical School: The Executive Faculty * (renumbered)
Sec. 4.131-11.38. The Medical School Executive Committee (revised July 2002)
The executive committee o4alwill consist of the dean, the executive director and chief
executive officer of the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers, and eight
members of the executive faculty (four instructional, one research, one clinical, and two
department chairs) to be appointed by the Board of Regents on recommendation by the
president. The executive vice president for medical affairs may attend the executive
committee meetings as an invited observer, but may not vote on matters before the
executive committee. The appointed members all,,will hold office for three years and


191




December Meeting, 2004 - Appendix


1shallwll not be eligible for reappointment until after the lapse of one year. The terms
_sha4 wlll be staggered so as to provide continuity of membership. The dean 1shawlll
chair the committee.
Sec. 11.13211.39. The Medical School: Full-time and Part-time Service of Faculty
Members
Members of the faculty of the Medical School occupying clinical chairs may be either
on a full-time or a part-time basis as arranged in each instance. Anyone of professorial
rank in a clinical department who desires to change from full-time to part-time or vice
versa may at any time, with the approval of the chair of the individual's department, the
dean, the executive committee and the Board, be permitted to change his or her status.
A part-time appointment does not confer the privilege f-pri-vate to practice in the
Hospitals and Health Centers unless such privilege has been expressly granted by- ation
of the-Board as provided in the Medical Staff bylaws.
Sec. 11.13311.40. The Medical School: The Mental Health Research Institute
(revised November 1993)
The Mental Health Research Institute sha4will be maintained for the purpose of
conducting basic research concerning human behavior, normal and abnormal, focusing
on the problems of mental health and the prevention, treatment, and cure of mental
disease. The institute shwll be a part of the Department of Psychiatry of the Medical
School. The institute shai4will be in the charge of a director appointed by the Board, on
recommendation by the dean of the Medical School, the executive vice president
provost for medical affairs, and the president and responsible through the chair of the
Department of Psychiatry to the dean, the executive committee, and the executive vice
president provest for medical affairs. The director shl,,will be assisted by an advisory
committee of nine members. Six of these s4a,4will be ex officio: the dean of the Medical
School or his or her designee, the executive vice president provost for medical affairs or
his or her designee, the vice president for research or his or her designee, the dean of
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts or his or her designee, the dean of the
School of Public Health or his or her designee, and the chair of the Department of
Psychiatry. The other three s4,i4will be appointed by the Board on recommendation by
the president, the executive vice president provost for medical affairs, and the dean of
the Medical School, with terms so arranged that one s~awill expire each year.
Sec. 11. 136. The MedicaL l School: The N1 uropsychiatric Institutei
The Neuropsychiatric Institute shall be maintained for the pupose of treating patients,
engaging in r..esearch concerning mental disease, aiding in establishing in the state of
Michigan suitable preventive measures to reduce the amount of mental disease in this
Psychiatry7, director, ex officio.


192




December Meeting, 2004 - Appendix


&l t,., ,/.l~t,,,(.I,~.I  L t,.,(.I L~l t,.mI l -k J..( F uL%--.,,I LO  1 Li'LLLLlt,,  ULILt.,  l (A, I  I. t,.,  ILJLL.,&-L"ALt,.,,waI  VVILLLl  Lilt,.,,,,.LtvILtttesLIThe care and treatment of patients in the institute shaLll be integrated with the activities
of the University of Michigan Hospitals. For this pupose, the insti~te shall be a
deparment of the University of Michigan Hospitals, and its budgets shall be
incorporated into that prepared for the Hospitals. The Hospitals shall be responsible for
the business administration of the patient care functions of the institute, and shall keep


se~parate accounts ol its budget so that the disposition - the appropriation received Irom
the state may be satisfactorily recorded.
In the c.ase of patients transforIroed from any Mof the state hospitals for clinical or research
otransfcLing hospital for the patient's coare, custtody, and treatment.
Hospitals, and all patients shall be admitted through the Hospitals.
JL L% OF tL Uj OI ct %L  ct,-%ILJLO 0 ' "  u -'LJJLL m & '-  J JL JO -t u-0


r


A      provision shall be made whereby all patients admitted  t the institute shall contract to
remain in the institute at least five days after giving notice of a desire to leave, patients
L"to be detained only VV1,when in the opinion of the director such de1,LKtention is necessary.
Sec. 11.41 The School of Nursing Executive Committee * (renumbered)
Sec. 11  11.42. The University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
The University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers 4shawill be maintained for
the purpose of providing the people of the state of Michigan with the highest type of
hospital service and medical care and of providing suitable facilities for the teaching
and advancement of medicine and allied sciences, arts, and skills. It s4ha1will provide
for the observation, diagnosis, care, and treatment of patients entitled to its benefits,
pursuant to the laws of this state and the authority of the Board. Its services and
facilities 4shalwill be available so far as possible to all units of the University
conducting programs of teaching and research in medicine, dentistry, public health,
nursing, dietetics, social service, hospital administration, and such other related
programs as may from time to time be established by authority of the Board. For
puFoses of Hospitals' administration of patient care, the Neuropsychiatric Institute
shall be associated wiLLth the University of Michigan Hospitals.L'
Sec. 41-51f11.43. The University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
Executive Board (revised November 1993)
There 4shalwill be an executive board of the University of Michigan Hospitals and
Health Centers composed of the president-; the dean of the Medical School; the dean of
the School of Nursing; the provost and executive vice president for academic affairs;
he vice president for develoment; the executive vice president and chief financial
officer; the vice president for government relations; the executive vice provoe t president
for medical affairs; the chief of clinical affairs of the University of Michigan Hospitals
and Health Centers; the execti-vedirector and chief executive officer of the University
of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers; the chief of nursing affairs of the University
of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers- and assistant associate dean for clinical
affairs, School of Nursing; and two nominees from the medical/dental staff of the
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers.
The chair sh4a4will be named by the-pesidenan the Board of Regents.
F-ll ~ll,~l.A.l t he Boad of1R gent.


193




December Meeting, 2004 - Appendix


The nominees of the medical/dental staff will be appointed by the Board of Regents on
recommendation by the presidt, and will serve four-year terms, so staggered to
provide one replacement each two years.
Sec. 1-.154A11.44. The University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
Executive Board: Powers and Duties (revised, July 1993)
The Board of Regents is responsible for establishing the mission, goals, and objectives
of the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers as set out in Sec. 1-1-5442
and for the quality of medical care services provided; approval of all major programs
and operating budgets, including level of expenditures and rates two be charged;, QU  the
approval of capital and facility plans; appoment and delination of hos   rivileges
for medical/dental staff members; and appointment of the executive director and chief
executive officer of the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers.
In all of the above matters, the executive board of the University of Michigan Hospitals
and Health Centers is expected to make recommendations to the president and the
Board of Regents.
The executive board of the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers is
itself charged with responsibility and empowered to establish programs, services, and
administrative units to meet the goals and objectives of the University of Michigan
Hospitals and Health Centers; to review and approve medical/dental staff bylaws, rules,
and regulations governing medical care rendered; to appoint and delineate hospital
privileges for medical/dental staff members; to review and approve the internal
organizational structure of the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers; to
determine appropriate delegation of authority to the executi-v director and chief
executive officer of the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers within the
system of general University administration; to insure fulfillment of external
requirements for Hospitals and Health Centers' management; to review and approve
Hospitals and Health Centers sponsored training programs; to review and approve
appropriate use of the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers for clinical
educational and training experience by various health schools of the University; and to
take such steps as are needed to insure periodic evaluation of Hospitals and Health
Centers' operations to assure that goals and objectives are achieved.
In carrying out the above delegated powers, the executive board of the University of
Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers will submit periodic reports to-through the
president ad to the Board of Regents. The executive board 4shalwill submit its minutes
to the Board of Regents.
Sec. -1-r5211.45. The University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers: The
Exeu-tive Director and Chief Executive Officer
The executive director and chief executive officer of the University of Michigan
Hospitals and Health Centers s4hatiwill be appointed by the Board of Regents upon
recommendation by the president. The executive director and chief executive officer
shallwill be responsible to the executive vice prov-so president for medical affairs (wtho
is also the vice chair of the executive board of the University of Michigan Hospitals),
and shallwill have immediate responsibility for the operation, maintenance and
administrative affairs of the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers. The


194




December Meeting, 2004 - Appendix
director and chief executive officer will serve as a member of the executive board of the
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centersvice chair of the c linical
U tiveeomm       e, a (And. chatir fthecitntica/lcouni lt. The exeetive director and chief
executive officer sha4wll, ex officio, be a member 0%fth utivs.Icfal tyfPthP
MedicIa Schl an e%,,etutiveommWee of the Medical School Executive Committee.
Sec. 4-1.511.46. The University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers:
Professional Service
The professional medical service of the Hospitals and Health Centers shawill be
rendered by the severa4 departments or units of the Medical School %to-hie-t-he
repnsbliyoftecareo    ainsadte prto          fci   ical labortore are
delgatd. achof hepatmens sall"oranize apoint tnecessat~ offi-e.%o;rs,;RAndsAdot4n
mes for its prLocedure and&o v ernmentif w~iithifni the al liomlits kof cLits Cauthoit-1ty.
Sec. 44.5411.47. The University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers:
Admission of Patients
Patients sllawill be admitted to the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health
Centers for diagnosis, care, orand treatment which sh4a4will be provided eate-in
accordance with rules and regulations formulated from time to time by the executive
board of the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers and approved by the
Board of Regents. The folowingclsses ofcasesmabadte
1DPbiscl patients: Patpietas whos Helhosptaiztionrs  authorizdudrtestttsosh
Stateof Mihiganproviing ordhspitaliationt catrubi expe nsef Scptentsandwl  shalle
havebfirst priorityhfor available fislis.expta tteor requiredblawand
2.cnsi    ptint:satentswtppial  wholi ares  rfcrredi to the University' Noftich fPiganositl
byPracticine  hscasfosigoicre.rtetet
imedi at4 mhedal Scarl an treaTment.  ecutieCm     m
4qq ssiPQ       LQ:;XP )
S-ece.s.. 4-1-A-5S11.4., TheUniveerstyof MiciganHosptals and Meal ith enters:f t~
DisclosureLovHospitals ad Health Ceners' Record
disc-;n4,los- Qtifed t ct        ia   tng phs icians, r iaccrdace  ithaorerof
cour   ""of1competent jurisdiction upon a subpoena du-ces tecum, or upon wrIttnreus
Ct V UIIttjIfwI
pulihe nrtheiR rscontentsdslsdecp s,   permitted ort%-,AL re 4quir aed bylaw antd O
Practices.%- ut,              t
Sec. 114.4T11.48. The University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers:
Disclosure of Hospitals and Health Centers' Records


195




December Meeting, 2004 - Appendix


Sec. 11.50 The School of Natural Resources and Environment: The Executive
Committee * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.5712-The School of P aublicHealth:Th Exc utie Cionment-e *(arm  beredt
Sec. 11.53  TheL  SchoolXof.,   Soci.... Work:, Thu.--, Li..  " o mite.......* (remlered)-,-1.-,,4...   4
Sec. 11.5work of Camp Filibert Roth shall be conducted for the puose of combining field
Sec.work with instction and research. The camp shall be in the charge of a director
ove.r and responsibility for administrat e a t i  ts programs of insttion and
research; and shall have jurisdiction over the conduct and activities of all students in the
dieetosha(renumbered)g
Sec. 11.51 The College of Pharmacy: The Executive Committee * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.52 The School of Public Health: The Executive Committee * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.53 The School of Social Work: The Executive Committee * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.54 The Department of Athletics: General Purposes * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.55 The Department of Athletics: Organization of Department *
(renumbered)
Sec. 11.56 The Department of Athletics: The Director * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.57 The Department of Athletics: Appointment of Staff Members e
(renumbered)
Sec. 11.58 The Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.59 The Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics: Organization
(renumbered)
Sec. 11.60 The Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics: Functions *
(renumbered)
Sec. 11.61 The Department of Athletics: Funds * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.62 The Department of Athletics: Rules and Regulations * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.63 The Department ofAthletics: Advisory Committee on Recreational
Sports * (renumbered)
Sec. 11.64 The Department of Athletics: Advisory Committee on Recreational
Sports: Organization and Functions * (renumbered)
Sec. 4511.65. Division of Kinesiology (revised November 1993)
The Division of Kinesiology s4halwill be maintained for the purpose of conducting
research and offering curricula in movement science and sports management and
communications. It shatlwill be in the charge of a dtireecto dean appointed by the Board
on recommendation by the president and responsible to the provost and executive vice
president for academic affairs.


196




December Meeting, 2004 - Appendix


The executive committee will consist of the direetr dean and four members of the
governing faculty to be appointed by the Board on recommendation by the president.
The appointed faculty members sha,4will hold office for two years, and the terms
shallwill be so adjusted that two will expire each year. Members shallwill not be
eligible for reappointment until after the lapse of two years. The direetor dean shaKfwill
chair the committee.
Sec. 11.66 The Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy Executive Committee *
* The word "shall" has been replaced with "will" in the text of this bylaw.


197




December Meeting, 2004 - Appendix


198




JANUARY MEETING, 2005


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Wednesday, January 26, 2005
The Regents convened at 8:10 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner, Taylor, and
White. Also present were Provost Courant, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice
President Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice President May,
Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice President Slottow, Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Regent Deitch was absent.
Call to Order
President Coleman called the meeting to order and said that the meeting would begin
with the presentation of three Regents' Resolutions.
Regents' Resolutions
Marshall Scholarship Recipient. Regent Richner welcomed Jacob Bourjaily to the
podium and read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan congratulate and
commend Jacob Lewis Bour/aily on his selection as a 2005 Marshall
Scholar.
It is not easy to stand out among the large, diverse, student body
at the University of Michigan, but Jacob Bourjaily hit the ground
running and has not stopped. A senior in the honors program with a
major in physics and mathematics, he was the first undergraduate
student ever chosen to be an associate member of the Michigan Center
for Theoretical Physics.   This past summer, he was the only
undergraduate student at the 42nd International School of Subnuclear
Physics in Sicily, where he earned the Paul A.Mi. Dirac Diploma, was
named "Best Student, " and was chosen "Best Presenter of a Theoretical
Subject.Y" He has also presented at conJerences in Edinburgh, Vienna,
Geneva, Paris, and Marseilles and has several research papers pending
publication.
Both in high school and in college, Jacob has enjoyed sharing his
enthusiasm for science - particularly in the areas of gravity, particles,
and other components of the universe that are not generally understood
- by developing and regularly participating in outreach programs fbr
younger students. His interest in every facet of physics and mathematics
is further expressed through his hobby of collecting currency faturing
pictures of mathematicians and physicists. Along the way, he has also


199




January Meeting, 2005


found the time to become an accomplished photographer and jazz
guitarist.
Jacob Bourjaily epitomizes the "Michigan Difference."  The
Regents take great pride in celebrating Jacob's many accomplishments
and look forward to following his career as he completes his education
and takes his place among the august body of illustrious Michigan
alumni.
A round of applause followed.
Rhodes Scholarship Recipient. Regent White welcomed Joseph Jewell to the
podium and read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The egents othe University of Michigan commend Joseph
Jewell on his selection as a 2005 Rhodes Scholar.
As one of only 32 U.S. students selected annually to receive
this most prestigious honor, Joseph Jewell has attained the pinnacle
of achievement in the academic world. A Michigan native and
graduate student in the Department of Aerospace Engineering, he
will attend Oxbfrd University beginning in the fall of 2005 to pursue
a master's degree in engineering science.
It came as no surprise to those who know him that Joseph
Jewell was awarded a Rhodes Scholarship. As a high school
senior, Joseph was named a United States Presidential Scholar, an
honor which recognizes the nation's most outstanding high school
students. With interests ranging from music to photography to
medieval history to outer space, he completed his undergraduate
studies at the California Institute of Technology, where he was an
honors student in both medieval history and aeronautics, an
accomplished musician who played percussion in the campus band
and orchestra, and a leader in student government. He has
published three technical papers and a study guide for improving
SAT scores, and spent three summers doing research at NASA,
where he tested his physical endurance by flying aboard its
zero-gravity experimental plane. Joseph aspires to be an astronaut
or a college professor, working on advanced jet engines for
powering spaceships. While at Oxford, he plans to spend his time
outside of the classroom by playing timpani in the symphony
orchestra, improving his skills as a photographer, and traveling
throughout Europe.
Joseph Jewell has been described a   young person of
uncommon decency, who shows great humility and thoughtfulness
despite his many achievements.  It is with great pride and


200




January Meeting, 2005


admiration that the Regents congratulate Joseph Jewel! for his
Rhodes Scholarship and look forward to following his career in the
years to come.
Vice President and Secretary of the University Resolution. Regent Brandon
called Vice President Tedesco to the podium and read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan commend Dr. Lisa A.
Tedcesco as she steps down jfom the position of vice president and
secretary of the University and re-immerses herself in her role as a
faculty member.
Vice President Tedesco received her M.Ed. and Ph.D. degrees
from the State University of New York at Buffalo in 1975 and 1981,
respectively. In 1992, following an 18-year career at SUNY Buffalo, she
came to the University of Michigan as profssor of dentistry and
associate dean for academic affairs in the School of Dentistry. A health
psychologist and nationally-recognized expert on diversity in the health
professions, in 1996 Interim President Homer Neal appointed her to
oversee projects related to diversity and the advancement of women,
including the publication of "Climate and Character: Perspectives on
Diversity " and the work of the Council on a Multicultural University.
Her work on campus climate and broad knowledge of the University
brought her to the attention of President Lee Bollinger.
In September 1998, Dr. Tedesco was appointed vice president
and secretay of the University, and in 2001 she held an additional
appointment as interim provost and executive vice president for
academic affairs. During this period, she skillfully balanced the full
range of responsibilities of these two extraordinarily demanding
positions. In her role as provost, she helped lead the University's
response to the September 11 terrorist attacks and oversaw important
academic initiatives, such as the final report of the President's
Commission on the Undergraduate Experience, while as vice president
and secretary she provided crucial assistance to the Regents with the
presidential search.
An active University citizen, Dr. Tedesco has made significant
contributions in a number of areas across the campus. She is a
long-standing member of the President's Advisoly Commission on
Women's Issues and has served as chair of the Campus Safety and
Security Advisofy Committee for six years. As the administrative liaison
to the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics, she serves on the Advisory
Board for Intercollegiate Athletics and was appointed by President
Coleman to chair the steering committee for the NCAA Division I
Athletics Recertification Program in 2003. This complex assignment led


201




January Meeting, 2005


to lasting enhancements in academic opportunities fobr student athletes
and to improvements in other aspects of our athletic program.
Dr. Tedesco received the University K s prestigious Sarah Goddard
Power Award in 2002 in honor of her distinguished leadership and
sustained service on beha'lf of women. She has also received the
Department of Public Safety's Director's Award fbor her service in the
development and revision of departmental policies and procedures. She
is the recipient of numerous other honors and has held national
leadership positions in pro/essional organizations related to her
academic work.
The vice president and secretary of the University is a pivotal
position that touches nearly every facet of this complex, diverse,
decentralized, and highly-visible institution. It is a rare individual who
can successftdlly navigate around all the issues, constituent groups, and
decision-makers, working towards consensus, while being mindful of the
path that is in the best long-term interests of the institution. The Regents
greatly admire Lisa's ability to sustain and enhance relationships among
the Regents and between the Regents and members of the University
community, and, indeed, among the multitudes of individuals who cross
her path daily, always displaying   her characteristic sensitivity,
profssionalism, and goodjudgment.
The Regents express their great admiration for Lisa's skill and
wisdom  in leading  and supporting  them, both collectively and
individually. She has set the gold standard fbor the position of vice
president and secretary of the University, in which she has served with
such distinction f)r nearly seven years. She has perfbrmed her
challenging responsibilities in a truly exceptional manner and has done
an outstanding job of communicating, problem-solving, and providing
sound guidance and advice to all. The Regents express their deepest
respect, admiration, and gratitude to Lisa for her outstanding efforts on
behalf of the University; we will miss her very much.
With much affection and appreciation, the Regents recognize and
thank Dr. Lisa A. Tedesco for her sefless, distinguished service as vice
president and secretary of the University and send her best wishes as she
returns fidl time to her academic career.
A standing ovation followed. President Coleman called on Nancy Asin, assistant
to the vice president and secretary of the University, who commented on how much
Lisa would be missed by her staff.
tby Vice rsi        Tedesco  Vice President Tedesco responded that
she was deeply touched by the comments she had received, both publicly and
personally. She noted that she has always been motivated by learning and had learned
an extraordinary amount by serving in this position. She commented, "I leave the post
with a deep appreciation for what university governance means, and what it means to
hold an institution in trust for the future. It is not a trivial matter." She noted that her


202




January Meeting, 2005


work with Regents, presidents, faculty, and students has taught her extraordinary
lessons and has been a wonderful experience. "All of this has deepened my love for
Michigan, has deepened my love for all of you in service to this fine institution, and I
say thank you for the honor and privilege of serving you and Michigan as vice president
and secretary of the University."
A round of applause followed.
President's Opening Remarks
President Coleman called the meeting to order and noted that the morning session
had been reserved for discussion, public comment, and action regarding the North Quad
Residential and Academic Complex.
President Coleman called attention to the death on January 25th of Gerard M.
Faeth, Arthur B. Modine Distinguished University Professor of Aerospace Engineering,
Professor of Aerospace Engineering, and Professor of Mechanical Engineering, noting
that he was to have given an annual lecture in accordance with his distinguished
University professorship in several days. She also called attention to the retirement of
former dean and interim president B. Joseph White.
North Quad Residential and Academic Complex.        President Coleman
commented that this is an important and exciting project for the University, envisioned
as a major northern gateway to the central campus. The concept is for a combination of
residential and academic space and is the first of its type in the country. This project
will fulfill several institutional priorities: it will increase the amount of residential
space on campus, it is a major component of the Residential Life Intitiative plan to
renovate the residence hall system, it will enhance and link students' living and learning
experiences, and it addresses the deteriorating state of the Frieze Building, which has
been a top priority for a long time. It also provides an opportunity to bring together
academic programs in very innovative ways. She called on Provost Courant.
Provost Courant commented that this is an exciting, unique project, built on the
idea of collaboration on the cutting edge. The multiple collaborations include those
between the offices of the provost and vice president for student affairs, among the
deans of several schools and colleges, and eventually among students and faculty, once
the facility is up and running.
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that this project is one if a series of
projects that are part of the Residential Life Initiative (RLI) described in September,
2004. The five major components of the RLI are life safety upgrades and IT upgrades,
both of which have been done in a number of residence halls, dining upgrades (Hill
Dining Center), a new residential complex (North Quad) and its associated academic
space, and renovations of heritage residence halls. He noted that since buildings are
constructed "from the inside out," the deans' and student affairs' programmatic vision
for this structure is critical.
Executive Vice President Slottow said that this complex would include
approximately 500 beds and about 190,000 gross square feet of academic and support
space. He pointed out that this is a replacement project, replacing the academic space at
the Frieze site. The estimated cost of the residence hall portion of the complex is $58


203




January Meeting, 2005


million, and the budget estimate for the academic and support space is $74 million, plus
an additional $5 million for demolition and site work.
Terrance McDonald, dean of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
expressed the college's enthusiasm for the project and gratitude for the foresight of
President Coleman and the Regents in supporting this project. He noted that students
arrive on campus with a deep curiosity about the way that media and information shape
their lives, society, and the world. One of the college's goals is to help them become
sophisticated consumers and evaluators of media and information, he said, and the new
North Quad complex will allow the college to mount an enriched curriculum in media
and information studies, will leverage the high technology demands of the units that
provide that instruction, will help drive the University's global agenda, and will
strengthen the teaching of language, which is the foundation of that agenda.
The three units on campus that focus on information and media studies--Film and
Video Studies, Communication Studies, and the School of Information--will be brought
together for the first time and will be made available to undergraduate students in a
variety of ways. He noted that housing these units in the same building will also be
efficient from a cost perspective by concentrating all of the technology-intensive
equipment in one place.  He also noted the benefits of providing access for
undergraduate students to the renowned strengths and scholarly pursuits of the School
of Information. Dean McDonald pointed out that the building will be equipped to
handle the technologically intensive needs of language instruction, and the
concentration of language instruction facilities within and nearby the North Quad
facility will also be a primary benefit of the space.
Dean John King, of the School of Information, noted that his school had been
holding discussions with the departments of Film  and Video Studies and
Communication Studies about how they might collaborate and about how housing all of
these units in the same facility made sense. He said that the goal is for students at the
University of Michigan to dramatically increase their global vision and ability to
communicate and collaborate with people all over the world, and that this collaboration
will be a catalyst toward achieving that goal.
Dean King noted that these ideas have been germinating for a number of years,
following up on the vision laid out by the institution that advised that we have to rethink
the nature of the learning community, which would involve more than students and
teachers as it becomes a global community. The other notion was that "we have to
build an ecology of experiments" because nobody knows how to achieve this goal. He
observed that the North Quad project embodies both of those visions, laid out 4-5 years
ago by the institution.
Dean King reported that the first demonstration of the "Connection Project" that
connects the two locations of the School of Information, occurred last week, and that it
provided an astounding example of the difference that new and evolving technology can
make. He predicted that North Quad will only further this process.
Steven Kunkel, dean of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, who
noted that his unit will be the largest University unit located next to the new complex,
pointed out that following up on the extensive renovation of the Rackham building, "the
time has come to invest in our undergraduates in this residential living/learning center."


204




January Meeting, 2005


He said that the Graduate School is extremely excited about having new neighbors and
welcomes the opportunity to interact both with the academic units and the students
housed in the residence hall.
Vice President Harper noted that the focus of this project has been to meet the
needs and desires of students while at the same time reframing the way that students
learn and live. She noted that students' lives are centered more on computer screens
than TV screens as had been the case for past generations and that the intentional
blending of classroom and living space creates opportunities to provide a transformative
learning experience for students. The goal is to create an environment that includes
opportunities for both classroom learning and informal, lifelong skills learning and that
facilitates learning in every domain--cognitive, social, personal, and spiritual. She
noted that North Quad will be a gateway to the University of Michigan that will
dramatically connect living and learning.
Vice President Harper introduced Carole Henry, director of University Housing,
chair of the President's Task Force on Residential Life and Learning, and recognized
staff who have been working on this project.
Ms. Henry reported that the task force had been charged with determining how to
integrate residential life and academic life more fully on campus, how to provide
opportunities for personal and intellectual development that compliment the academic
experience, and how to provide a framework for the bold concepts outlined by the
deans.
Ms. Henry noted that North Quad would contain a mix of living options, including
suites with various configurations. There would be music practice rooms, performance
rooms, hall kitchens, laundry facilities, and multi-purpose spaces in addition to student
government and organization space. Many dining options would be provided. She
emphasized that students will be involved in all aspects of planning for the space. The
central theme would be that learning takes place everywhere, and the hall will help
elucidate the meaning of the concept of the lifetime learner. She noted that the task
force has been discussing several possible themes for the complex, and it will release a
formal report in about a month.
Executive Vice President Slottow commented that in order to achieve the vision
that has been described for the project, it will be necessary to demolish the existing
Frieze Building. However, every attempt will be made to incorporate the existing
Carnegie Library. He said that the recommended architect is Einhorn Yaffee Prescott, a
firm which has designed over 90 residence halls and an equal number of academic
buildings for campuses across the country.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the subject of the
proposed North Quad Residential and Academic Complex. Caroline Smith, alumna; Amy
Keller, student and president of the Residence Halls Association; Thomas Heywood,
citizen, executive director of the State Street Area Association; Rese Fox, student,
external relations chair, Michigan Student Assembly; and Jason Mironov, student,
president of Michigan Student Assembly.


205




January Meeting, 2005


Discussion of North Quad Residential and Academic Complex
It was noted that the residence hall is intended to house mostly sophomores and
juniors.
Regent McGowan said that she had attended the community meeting on the
proposed project and had high regard for the sentiments expressed. She commented
that graduates of Ann Arbor High School, which had at one time been housed in the
Frieze Building, had expressed opposition to the project, and drew comparisons
between the Frieze Building and the former Perry Elementary School building, which is
also owned by the University. The Perry Building had undergone a magnificent
renovation because it was found to be a solid structure and fit a strategic aim of the
University. She noted that Fourth Ward residents had expressed legitimate concerns
about quality of life issues and that the University should address these concerns over
time. She pointed out that students are excited by the project and have every reason to
be thrilled, and she noted also the enthusiasm expressed by the local business
community. The historic preservationists, she pointed out, have a great responsibility to
advocate for retaining and renewing buildings in Ann Arbor that are of considerable
significance to the city's history, and they have done a good job of carrying out this
responsibility.
So the Regents' decision on this issue must bear in mind their responsibility to
assure the continued prosperity of the University. In light of that, she stated that the
University needs to be absolutely clear about its intentions with respect to the future of
the Frieze Building and requested that Executive Vice President Slottow respond.
Executive Vice President Slottow stated that "we will be demolishing the Frieze
Building, and we will do what we can to protect and renovate all or portions of the
Carnegie Library." He described the three considerations that led to this conclusion.
The first is the physical condition and layout of the Frieze Building, which was
designed in 1907 to teach high school students. The second consideration is the need to
achieve the academic and RLI vision, which includes having a meaningful number of
residence rooms in a configuration suitable for the University's needs and to have a
sufficient number of gross square feet to meet academic and support space needs.
Lastly, the project needs to be consistent with master planning principles, which include
issues of density, careful use of the land, sensitivity to the surrounding community,
building heights, open space, parking, transportation, utilities, storm water, and other
infrastructure considerations. All of these aspects have been under intense scrutiny, he
noted, and for these and many other technical reasons, to achieve these three objectives
and remain appropriate fiduciaries of the University's facilities and mission, the Frieze
Building will need to be demolished.
Associate Vice President Hank Baier further noted that to work within the existing
structure, it would be necessary to retain the existing floor-to-floor heights in the
building with the same corridor and stairwell areas. To maintain the current structure
and accomplish the project vision, create collaborative learning environments, and put
in beds and a residence hall in an orderly and efficient fashion while adhering to the
master planning principles would be insurmountable. He noted that a tower had been
suggested by some, but this would not be appropriate for a residence hall and would not


206




January Meeting, 2005


produce a collaborative, cutting-edge learning environment. He pointed out that these
considerations have all been discussed with a number of architects.
Regent McGowan emphasized that it needs to be understood that approval of this
action will mean that the Frieze Building will be demolished and that there will be no
further discussion about attempting to save it. Executive Vice President Slottow
confirmed this and reiterated that a number of architects have been consulted, the
condition of the building has been known for a long time, and the building cannot be
saved if master planning principles are to be maintained.
Regent Richner requested information about financing of the structure. Executive
Vice President Slottow noted that current estimates for the project are imprecise, as they
always are at the initial phase of a project. They represent best estimates, given market
conditions, site conditions, benchmarking, and the cost of building a residence hall and
an academic center of this quality. The housing portion will be funded with borrowing
backed by residence hall rates and the academic portion will be funded from central
administration sources as well as funds from the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts and the Office of the Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs. He
emphasized that because it has been known for some time that the problems of the
Frieze Building would need to be addressed, the financing plans have been well
established.
Regent Maynard inquired about asbestos issues in the Frieze Building and how
this would be dealt with. Associate Vice President Baier responded that all asbestos
and lead will be removed from the building prior to any demolition. A detailed survey
of the building will be done, and an asbestos abatement contractor will remove it and
any lead materials prior to proceeding with the demolition. These expenses are
included in the cost for site preparation and demolition in the action request.
Regent Brandon commented that the Frieze Building was an embarrassment to
him when he was a student, that it has been ignored for decades, and that it continues to
be an embarrassment to the University. So as both a Regent and an Ann Arbor citizen,
he is especially enthusiastic about supporting the transformation that will occur on this
site.
Regent McGowan moved approval of the North Quad Residential and Academic
Complex project as described in the Regents Communication and authorization for
commissioning Einhorn Yaffee Prescott for its design. Regent Brandon seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting recessed at 9:35 a.m.
iWednesda, JanICuary 26, 2005
The Regents reconvened at 4:00 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Coleman and Regents Brandon, McGowan, Newman, Richner, and Taylor.
Also present were Provost Courant, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President
Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice President May, Chancellor
Mestas, Executive Vice President Slottow, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, and
Vice President Ulaby. Regents Deitch, Maynard, and White were absent, as were Vice
Presidents Rudgers and Wilbanks.


207




January Meeting, 2005


President Coleman noted that Committee Reports would be the first item on the
agenda and called on Regent Brandon.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning and considered four agenda topics. First they met with
Executive Vice President Kelch, Hospitals and Health Centers Executive Director Larry
Warren, and chief financial officer Doug Strong for an update on the operating
performance and ten-year strategic capital plan of the Hospitals and Health Centers.
Regent Brandon reported that through December 31, 2005 the Hospitals and Health
Centers had positive variances in budget versus revenue and budget versus operating
margin. The committee next received an initial review from Provost Courant and
Associate Provost Phil Hanlon on the FY 2006 General Fund Budget. The committee
also received a routine update from Carol Senneff, executive director of University audits,
and a preliminary look at the audit plan for next year. The committee met privately with
Ms. Senneff and was assured that she was receiving a high level of cooperation and
receptivity from management in the schools and colleges. The committee also received
internal audit reports regarding the Hospitals and Health Centers.
Compensation and Personnel Committee. President Coleman announced that
Regent Maynard was not able to attend this portion of the formal meeting and would
report on that morning's committee meeting at the next Regents' Meeting.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the meeting
of December 16, 2004.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report, the
Plant Extension Report, the Regents Report on Noncompetitive Purchases over $5,000
from Single Sources, September 16, 2004 through December 15, 2004, and the Human
Resources and Affirmative Action Report.
Executive Vice President Slottow announced that the Hill Auditorium renovation
had received a 2005 Honor Award for Outstanding Architecture from the American
Institute of Architects. He noted that architects of two of the other award-winning
projects are currently working on University of Michigan projects.
Ltigatigon Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of projects
established, December 31, 2004. He noted that compared to a year ago, available
federal funding has increased by about 1.2%, but the funds awarded to the University
have increased by 6.5%, indicating that the University is receiving a larger share of
available funds.
University of  ihigan Iealth System.     Executive Vice President Kelch
announced that the University of Michigan Health System recently received one of ten
national Premier Healthcare Employer awards for 2005 by the Premier Workplaces
organization. He recognized the efforts of Laurita Thomas, Larry Warren, and Deborah


208




Childs, among other past and present administrators, for the Health System having
achieved this recognition.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper had no additional report.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little informed the Regents about
an event that had occurred on campus two weeks ago, through which, in partnership
with Michigan Public Media, the campus had hosted the kickoff event for the Michigan
public television broadcast of a series about the Auschwitz concentration camp.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas had no additional report.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. Jason Mironov, president of MSA, wished
Vice President Tedesco well. He also thanked University administrators for working
with the MSA committee chairs on their various projects. He announced that MSA is
planning an event featuring several nationally prominent political figures and updated
the Regents on several other MSA activities.
Voluntary Support. Vice President May submitted a "Michigan Difference"
Campaign Update and the Report of Voluntary Support for December 2004. Regarding
the first report, he noted that with 53% of the time period having elapsed, the campaign
had so far reached $1.6 billion, or 65%, of its $2.5 billion goal. He also pointed out that
in December 2003, the University had received $30 million in cash gifts, whereas in
December 2004 these gifts totaled $47 million. This exceeded expectations and is a
credit to the efforts of a number of people both inside and outside the University. Vice
President May thanked the Regents for all of their assistance and advice during this
campaign and noted that it has really made a difference.
Regent Newman observed that a number of University development officers,
faculty, and staff members have also contributed their own funds to the campaign.
Earl B. Abramson, Highland Park, Illinois
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business........................... $10,000
Alcoa Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Special Engineering Scholarship Fund and
other support in the College of Engineering.................................... 50,000
Thomas E. Alford, Jamaica, New York
for the Thomas E. Alford Scholarship in the School of Information.................... 10,000
Bruce B. Allen, Kentfield, California
2,400 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Bruce and Janet Allen Athletic Endowed Scholarship Fund in
the Department of Athletics..................................................  148,995
Maggie A. Allesee, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Medical School and
for the Art Museum Project at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................... 10,100
A. L. S. Association, Woodland Hills, California
for research  in the M edical School..........................................  10,000
A. L. S. of Michigan, Inc., Southfield
for research in the Medical School........................................  15,000
Altair Engineering, Inc., Troy
for research at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................... 10,000
James M. Amend, Chicago, Illinois
4,640 shares of Stifel Financial Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Building Fund and other support in the Law School......................... 101,494
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................  103,612
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Division of Kinesiology and in the Medical School................. 342,615


209




January Meeting, 2005
w


Amenican Express Philanthropic Program, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................ 25,000
American Society of Nephrology, Washington, D. C.
for research in the Medical School............................................ 37,500
Aaron D. Amster, Encino., California
720 shares of HSBC Holdings, PLC, common stock
for the Class of 1979 Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Endowed Lupus Researc'h Fund in.
the Medical School, and for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....12,099
Pauline V. Anderson, Cupertino, California
for research in the College of Engineering..................................... 100,000
Anonymous Donor
for research. in the Comprehensive Canc'er Center............................... 200,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in the University Hospitals and
for the University Musical Society........................................... 175,000
Anonymous Donor
for the University Musical Society............................................ 50,000
Anonymous Donor
for research in the Medical School............................................ 50000
Anonymous Donor
-for histor of ar supp ort in the College of Literature, Scienc'e, and the Arts............. 25,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Museum of Zoology................................................. 25,000
Anonymous Donor
275 shares of National City Corporation, common stock
for supp ort in the Medical School............................................ 10,194
Anonymous Trust
for support in the Medical School........................................... 300,000
Peter Aquilina Estate
for the Dean's Discretionar Fund in the School of Music......................... 100,000
Lanc'e Armstrong Foundation, Austin, Texas
for support in the Medical School............................................ 10,913
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical ScThool............................................56,708
Bank of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for supp ort in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital.,
for the University Musical Society, and
for WUOM............................................................. 24,900
Bank One, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society............................................ 15,000
David J. Barger, New York, New York
42,000 shares of JetBlue Airways Corporation common stock
for the Barger Family Professorship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 1,006,551
Roberta Barnes, McLean, Virginia
for the Leslie Kish. International Fellows Fund in the Institute for Social Research.,
for academic support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
for the Residential College Fund in memor of John Holmes and Leslie Kish, and,
for other support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................... 17,500
Frank W. Batsch., Nap les, Florida
500 shares of Lancaster Colony Coiporation, common stock
for the Barbara and Frank Batsch Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics....21,390
Andrew M. Beam, South Lyon
for support in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital and
for the Cardiovasc'ular Center Building Development Fund.......................~..250,000
RacelA.-1Bend *It/AnnArbor


210




Gertrude Bennett Trust
300 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the Law School.............................................. 20,534
Joel I. Bennett, La Canada, California
200 shares of American International Group common stock
for support in the Law School............................................. 13,047
Keiko Beppu, Matsuyama, Japan
for the Barbour Levi Oriental Girls Scholarship in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies................................ 99,988
Beringea, LLC, Farmington Hills
for the Program for Understanding Neurologic Diseases in the Medical School.......... 15,000
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
for the Berman Depression Research Fund in the Medical School..................... 35,000
Kenneth D. Betz, Rockford
5,300 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Kenneth and Judy Betz Fellowship Fund in the College of Engineering,
for the River City Women's Athletic Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics,
for the Kenneth and Judy Betz Endowment Fund in the Law School, and
for the Kenneth and Judy Betz Family Medicine Scholarship in the Medical School...... 330,020
Bruce P. Bickner, Sycamore, Illinois
3,300 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the Division of Kinesiology and
for the Building Fund in the Law School....................................... 193,922
Walter N. Bieneman Estate
for support in the Law School.............................................. 50,000
Jerry H. Bilik, Cabin John, Maryland
580 shares of BB & T Corporation common stock
for the Walgreen Drama - Arthur Miller Theatre in the School of Music................ 24,224
Dave Bing, Detroit
for KEC Building Development Fund........................................ 10,000
Joan A. Binkow Trust
for support in the Center for the Education of Women,
for the Building Fund in the Museum of Art,
for the Walgreen Drama Center-Arthur Miller Theatre in the School of Music,
for the Director's Strategic Opportunities Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for the University Musical Society........................................... 43,500
William Blair & Company, Chicago, Illinois
for the Exhibition of Art by Michigan Prisoners Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 16,576
Leland F. Blatt Family Foundation, Harper Woods
for the Blatt Family Neuroblastoma Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......... 100,000
Barry S. Blattman, Armonk, New York
for the Director's Strategic Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 10,000
Bogaard Charitable Fund, Clifton Park, New York
for the Building Fund in the Law School...................................... 75,000
Bohlen Real Estate Corporation, Brighton
for the Bohlen African Projects Fund and special exhibitions support in
the Museum of Art..................................................... 25,000
Henry A. Boldt, Hilton Head Island, South Carolina
for the Harold F. Falls Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School................. 10,000
Mary Cannel and Thomas Borders Family Fund of the Ann Arbor Community Foundation,
Ann Arbor
for the Reach Out and Read Program in the Medical School......................... 30,000
Borders, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Depression Center Fund in the Medical School and
for the University Musical Society..................................... 15,066
John R. Boyd, Orchard Lake
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics and
for the Real Estate Initiative Fund in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.................... 44,800
John D. Boyles, Grand Rapids
212 shares of Fifth Third Bancorp common stock
for the University of Michigan Club of Grand Rapids Athletic Scholarship
the Department of Athletics and
for the John Duvall Boyles Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Law School.............. 10,071
David A. Brandon Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School and for C. S. Mott Children's Hospital............... 12,359


211




January Meeting, 2005
w


James B. Brandt, New York, New York
for the Building Fund in the Law ScThool....................................... 10000
William K. Brehm-, Mc'Lean., Virginia
for the William K. and Delores S. Brehm Endowed Fund in the Medical School,
for the William K. Brehm Undergraduate Scholarship Fund,
for the Michigan Union Scholarship, and,
for support in the School of Music......................................... 1,002,964
Bristol.-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton., New Jersey
for research in the Medical School............................................ 95,000
Eli and, Edythe L. Broad. Foundation, Los Angeles, Califomnia
for research in the Medical School............................................ 64,110
Jere H. Brophy, Chagrin Falls, Ohio
2,710 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Elaine Wright Brophy and Jere H. Brophy Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for
the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering in memor of
Helen Dorothy Hall Brophy and for the School of Music........................... 75,324
George R. Brotherton, New Orleans, Louisiana
for the George R. Brotherton. Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning in memory of
Robert B. Lytle, Jr........................................................ 10,000
Suzanne H. Brouse, Haslett
505 shares of Marvel Enterprises, Inc., common stock
for support in the School. of Nursing..........................................1.0,229
Sharon and Frederick Brubaker Fund of the Ayco Charitable Fund, Clifton Park, New York
for the Sharon and Frederick Brubaker Scholarship in the College of Pharmnacy and
for support in the School of Education......................................... 10,500
Ben F. Bryer Foundation, New York, New York
for the Ben F. Bryer, M.D. Scholarship in the Medical School....................... 50,000
Robert W. Buggert, Las Cruces, New Mexic'o
for the Robert W. and Helen W. Buggert Charitable Gift Annuity for
the ultimate benefit of the School of Music..................................... 10000
Ian R. N. Bund, Ann. Arbor
300 shares of Ventana Medical Systems common stock and a cash gift
for support in the Clements Librar and. Nichols Arboretum......................... 19,423
Butzel Long, A Professional Corporation, Detroit
for support at the University of Michigan...................................... 10,000
Joanne A. Cage Estate
for the University Musical Society............................................ 22,498
Brian P. Campbell, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School and
for the L. S. Steinberg Scholarship Fund in
the Horac'e H. Rackham. School of Graduate Studies.............................. 81,000
Campbell Fund, Ann Arbor
for the Rober and Mimi Habush Quality of Care Initiative Fund in
the Medical School and for the W. K. Kellogg Eye Center......................... 175,000
Brad Canale, Ann Arbor
for supp ort in the College of Engineering and the Step hen M. Ross School. of Business,
for marching band support in the School of Music~, and
for the Student Publications Building Renovation Fund............................ 12,000
Canar Charitable Foundation, New York, New York
-for the Regional Chemotherapy Research Fund in.
the Medical School in memory of Mrs. de Gunzburg.............................. 75,000
Carnegie Corporation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Socilal Research.................................. 50000
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for researc'h in the College of Engineering...................................... 17,791.
LlydH.CarAnnArbor


212




January Meeting, 2005


Werner E. Clabuesch, Pigeon
for the Werner Clabuesch Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the  Law  School.............................................................  10,000
Clan Crawford, Jr., Trust
for the Building Fund in the Museum of Art and for Nichols Arboretum................30,000
Frederick B. Clifford, Georgetown, Texas
for the Frederick and Doris Clifford Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and
the Department of Classical Studies in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 15,000
CME Outfitters, LLC, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Harold and Helen Gehring Endowed Professorship in the Medical School..........12,100
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for the Harry R. Cohodas Graduate Scholarship Fund in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business......................................... 12,000
Cold Heading Foundation, Warren
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics............................ 100,000
Convergys Corporation, Norwood, Ohio
for the Convergys Academic Achievement Recognition Program in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
for the Special Engineering Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering..............15,000
Lewis H. Cooper, Ann Arbor
for Hugh and Nan Cooper Scholarship and other support in the School of Music......... 25,850
William B. Corlis, Detroit
for the Robert G. Rodkey Collegiate Professorship in
the  Stephen  M. Ross School of Business......................................... 50,000
Roy J. Correa, Mercer Island, Washington
1,580 shares of various corporate common stock
for the ColTea Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the Reed Nesbit Professorship in Urology Endowment Fund in the Medical School...... 100,955
George L. Cotter, Jr., Savannah, Georgia
for the Class of 1954 Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering.................. 10,500
Dewey B. Crawford, Chicago, Illinois
230 shares of Illinois Tool Works, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Building Fund and other support in the Law School.......................... 23,925
Ronnie M. Cresswell, Palm Desert, California
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics............................. 10,000
Gayle Crick Fisher, Indianapolis, Indiana
540 shares of Eli Lilly & Company common stock
for the William T. and Nonna J. Crick Scholarship Fund and other support in
the  College  of Pharmacy...................................................... 30,308
Carolyn L. Crosby, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Louis and Margaret Crosby Scholarship Fund............................... 10,000
Howard D. Crull, Jr., Rancho Santa Fe, California
400 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics............................. 20,957
Dennis A. Dahlmann, Ann Arbor
505 shares of Bank of America Corporation common stock
for the Dahlmann Family Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics and
for the P. Gregory Peck Memorial Scholarship Fund in the College of Pharmacy..........23,230
DaimlerChrysler Corporation, Auburn Hills
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering...................... 63,250
John C. Dann, Dexter
200 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock
for the John C. Dann Acquisition Fund and the Longone Culinary Fund in
the  Clem ents  Library........................................................  10,281
Richard and Sandra Dauch Foundation, Detroit
for the School of Engineering Building Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. 50,000
William K. Davenport, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Law School............................................... 12,000
Marvin H. Davidson, New York, New York
for the Building Fund in the Museum of Ar.................................... 100,000
Roger and Jean DeMeritt Trust
for support in the College of Engineering and the Comprehensive Cancer Center.........26,000
Arthur Dole iii, Naples, Florida
1,475 shares of Eaton Coiporation common stock
for supp ort in the Department of Athletics..................................... 102,018
Esther M. Donahue, Ann Arbor
for the Thomas M. Donahue Student Support Fund in the College of Engineering.........10,000


213




R1cobert J. Donia, La Jolla, California
200 shares of Merrill Lynch & Company, Inc., common stock
for the Southeast European Studies Endow ment Fund in.
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 11,944
Donald A. Doran, Jr., Newv Providence, New Jersey
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............................. 10,000
Doshay Family Trust
for supp ort in the Stephen M Ross School. of Business............................. 10,000
Eugene V. Douvan, Ann Arbor
for the Elizabeth Dou van Fund. in the Institute for Social Research.................... 10000
Dow Chemical Company, Midland.
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
the Sc'hool of Natural Resources and Environment,
for the Kathleen Ann Torphy Hoyi Memorial Scholarship Fund in
the School of Public Health, and
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................... 502,500
DTE Energy Foundation, Detroit
for research in the School. of Natural Resourc'es and Env~ironment and
for epem ye loyee n gmatching* *gifts..*.**.*..*.**.*..*.**.*..*.**.*..*.**.*..*.**.*..*.**.*..*.**10,6303
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering and
for employee matching gifts................................................ 16,150
Efroym-son Fund of the Central Indiana Community Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Program in Film and Video Studies in
the College of Literature, Sc>ience, and the Arts.................................. 10,000
Fred A. Erb, Birmingham
33,530 shares of Independent Bank Corporation common stoc~k
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowvment Fund in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
the School of Natural Resources and Environment............................... 980585
Elizabeth C. Erwin, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Clements Librar............................................I1.2,500
David S. Evans, Wilmette, Illinois
500 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for the Sidney Fine Excellence in Teaching Fellowship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 24,695
Oscar H. and Barbara Feldman Trust
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
for the Building Fund in the Museum of Art....................................25,000
Douglas and Shelley Felt Family Foundation, LTD., Ogden, Utah
for the KEC Building Development Fund...................................... 10,000
Janette Ferran~tin~o, Ann Arbor
2,257 shares of Abbott Laboratories common stock
for the Janette Ferrantino Inv~estigator Endow ment Fund. in the Medical School......... 105,661
Fifth Third Bank, Southfield
for the Flint Center for Community and Business Partnerships at
the University of Mi chi 'an-Flint............................................. 10,000
Theodora Wilks Finn., Hilton Head Island, South Carolina
670 shares of Nokia Corporation common stock
for the Theodora Wilks Finn Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the History Department in the College of Literature, Scienc~e, and the Arts..............1.0,060
Charles E. Fisher, East Lansing
for the Charles E. Fisher Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Michigan Varsity Football Program in the Department of Athletics................ 100,000
Robert B. Fiske, Jr., New York, New York
for the Rober B. Fiske, Jr. Fellow ship Program- in the Law School.................. 250,000
Flin In C oaton AnnArbor


214




Mary C. Forsythe Trust
for the Dean's Scholarship Fund in the Medical School............................ 61,011
Frank Family Charitable Foundation., Los Ang~eles, California
for academic support in the Depaatment of Athletics............................... 10,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Family Foundation, Troy
for the Israel Projects Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and,
for the Frankel Fellowship Fund in Jewish Communal Service in
the School of Social Work.................................................. 15000
Fremont Area Community Foundation, Fremont
for WUOM.............................................................1O3,9
Arthur R. Gaudi, Santa Barbara,, Califomnia
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 10,000
Harold W. and Helen L. Gehring Trust
for the Harold and Helen Gehring Endowed Student Supp ort Fund and
for the Harold, and Helen Gehring Endowed Faculty Research Fund in
the Medical School....................................................1,1091K843
Michael R. Gelband, Short Hills, New Jersey
for supp ort in the Stephen M. Ross Sc'hool of Business............................. 50,000
Gelman Educ~ational Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Charles and Rita Gelman Risk Science Professorship in
the School of Public Health................................................ 63,984
General. Electric Employees Federal. Credit Union, Milford, Connecticut
for the Mott RT Trails Edge Camp Fund.......................................1.0,000
General Electric Industrial Systems, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Quality Research Center at University of MicThigan-Dearborn.................. 15,000
Gentex Corporation, Zeeland
for supp ort in the Transportation Research. Institute............................... 15,000
Gerontological Society of America, Washington, D. C.
for research in the School of Social Work...................................... 30000
Nicholas J. Gersch, Clarkston
for the Hom-Lay Wang Periodontics Fund for Excellence in the School of Dentistry...... 10,000
William B. Ginsberg, New York-, New York
for the Rosalie Ginsberg Community Servic~e Scholars Fund........................ 60,000
GlaxoSmithKline, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for support in the Medic~al School............................................ 11,000
James T. Glerum, Jr., Kenilworth, Illinois
for scholarships in. the Dep artment of Athletics.................................. 10,000
Patricia Mae Glover Estate
for the Patricia Mae Glover Fellowship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................................19,410
Dudley J. Godfrey, Jr. 1996 Trust, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the John W. Reed Scholarship Fund in the Law School..........................1.0,000
Robert H. Gorlin, Northville
for support of the Map Librar and,
for the Building Fund, and other support in the Law School......................... 21,000
Graham Foundation for Advanc~ed Studies in the Fine Arts, Chic~ago, Illinois
for supp ort in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architec~ture and Urban Planning........ 10,000
Anthony Gramer, Bloomfield Hills
for the Anthony S. Gramer Fund. for Inflammation Research in the Medical School...... 200,000
Edith M. Graneggen, Sault Sainte Marie
for the Alden and Edith Graneggen Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Martha Cook Building Fund and the School of Dentistry........................ 20,000
John J. Grant, Birmingham
for the Basketball Facility Fund in the Department of Athletics...................... 10,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School. of Education........................17,397
Joh and Hlen-Giffit _FundBoston,-assachsett


215




January Meeting, 2005


David Handleman, Bloomfield Hills
4,459 shares of Handleman Company common stock
for the Handleman Professorship in the Medical School............................ 100,707
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the School of Nursing and
for employee matching gifts................................................. 37,600
David G. Hartman, New Providence, New Jersey
263 shares of Chubb Corporation common stock
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
for the Cecil and Ethel Nesbitt Professorship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 20,098
Oliver Hatcher Charities, Wixom
for the Child and Family Life Program in the University Hospitals................... 50,000
Thomas W. Hawkins, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
155 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Thomas W. Hawkins Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 10,398
Mary A. Hench Charitable Lead Trust
for the Softball Stadium Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics.............. 80,000
Hendren Group, LTD., Sylvania, Ohio
for the IMAP Program in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................... 20,000
Henkel Loctite, Rocky Hill, Connecticut
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 10,000
Hermelin Family Support Foundation of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program and
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaic Endowment Fund in the University Library... 15,500
Lee H. Hess, Columbus, Ohio
for support in the School of Information...................................... 75,000
Hess Foundation, Inc., Roseland, New Jersey
for support in the Law School.............................................. 10,000
C. Fern Hitchings Trust
for the University of Michigan-Flint......................................... 20,000
Lauraine A. Hoensheid, Brighton
for the Cardiovascular Center Building Development Fund....................... 500,000
Holcim (US), Inc., Dundee
for the Holcim Professorship in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment............................. 500,000
Dudley K. Holmes, Jr., Chelsea
1,000 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for the Holmes Psoriasis Fund in the Medical School............................. 49,400
Jon R. Holt, Minnetrista, Minnesota
for the Jon R. and Beverly S. Holt Endowment Fund in the College of Engineering and
for the Athletic Enhancement Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 150,800
Horning for Michigan Regent, Grand Haven
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics............................ 10,000
Karen L. Horny, Springfield, Missouri
354 shares of BellSouth Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Karen Horny Scholarship in the School of Information and
for the University Alumni Association....................................... 10,070
Timothy A. Howes, Los Altos, California
8,000 shares of Opsware, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Engineering.................................... 57,080
John K. Hoyns, New York, New York
for support in the Law School............................................... 15,000
James B. Hudak, Orinda, California
277 shares of Carnival Corporation common stock
for the Building Fund and other support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy..... 16,078
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support in the Medical School......................................... 130,000
Imani Fund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support in the School of Education.......................................... 21,917
Frances B. Imoberstag Foundation, Dearborn Heights
for the Center for Heritage Landscaping at the University of Michigan-Dearborn......... 20,000
Indian Trail Charitable Foundation, Inc., Harrison, New York
for the Benny Friedman Fellowship in Sports in the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program,
for the Askwith Fund for Innovation in Asthma and Allergy Management in
the School of Public Health, and
for the University Library............................................. 153,333


216




International Congress of Oral Implantologists, Upper Montclair, New Jersey
for the Horn-Lay Wang Periodontics Fund for Excellence in the School of Dentistry...... 10,000
Verne G. Istock, Chicago, Illinois
7,950 shares of JPMorgan Chase and Company common stock and a cash gift
for the Verne G. Istock Scholarship Fund and other support in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
for support in the Department of Athletics,
for the Mildred W. Istock Scholarship and other support in the School of Education,
for the Lloyd and Laurie Carr Endowment Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center,
for the Judith A. Istock Scholarship and other support in the School of Music,
for the Donald F. and Arleen G. Warnke Scholarship Fund and other support in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for the Geraldine Ford Memorial Scholarship, and the University Alumni Association.... 311,140
Clifford Jackson, Brooklyn, New York
for the Clifford Jackson Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
scholarships in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 10,000
John H. and Joan L. Jackson Charitable Gift Fund of the Fidelity Investments Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for international law study support in the Law School............................... 10,000
Jacob Family Foundation, Bloomfield
for the Arnold M. and Linda T. Jacob Faculty Development Fund in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
for the Building Fund  in the Law  School......................................... 25,000
Michael J. Jandernoa, Grand Rapids
9,613 shares of Perrigo Company common stock
for the Michael and Susan Jandernoa Life Sciences Initiative Fund in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics...................................  169,477
Jagdish C. Janveja, Ann Arbor
for the Stadium Brick Project Fund in the Department of Athletics..................... 10,000
Conrad and Caroline Jobst Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
for research  in  the  M edical School............................................. 210,000
Johnson Controls Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the KEC Building Development Fund for support in the University Hospitals and
for employee  matching  gifts................................................... 31,250
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, Skillman, New Jersey
for the Associates Program in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................. 16,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School, the School of Public Health, and
the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy....................................  2,200,114
Norman L. Jones, Birmingham
34 shares of Gabriel, Roeder, Smith & Company common stock
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 20,094
Robert C. Jones, Summit, New Jersey
for the Harry H. Jones Endowment Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business...... 50,000
Thomas C. Jones, Ann Arbor
15,000 shares of Cigna Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
for  W FU M.............................................................. 1,125,950
John P. Junge, Rancho Santa Fe, California
15,000 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the John P. and Sue H. Junge Football Scholarship and
the Football Stadium Events Center Fund in the Department of Athletics and
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............................. 436,305
David B. Kaplan, Beverly Hills, California
for the David and Meredith Kaplan Men's Basketball Endowed Scholarship in
the Department of Athletics................................................. 20,000
Richard Kiatcher, Cleveland, Ohio
1,700 shares of Merck & Company common stock and a cash gift
for the Katc~her Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the Shirley R. Katcher Scholarship and the Richard and
Shirley R. Katcher Family Scholarship in the Law School,
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and
for the University Alumni Association......................................... 32,289
Michael S. Katzke, New York, New York
1,200 shares of International Business Machines Corporation common stock and a cash gift


217




January Meeting, 2005


for the Josephine Tsao Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 236,352
Joseph P. and Nancy F. Keithley Foundation, Pepper Pike, Ohio
for the Joseph P. and Nancy F. Keithley Foundation Endowment Fund in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business........................................ 25,000
W. K. Kellogg Fund of the Grand Haven Area Community Foundation, Grand Haven
for support in the School of Education......................................... 15,000
Charles L. Kelly, Traverse City
726 units of Vanguard Midcap Index mutual fund
for support in the Schools of Dentistry and Music.................................. 11,200
G. Peter Kelly, Marquette
for the Sigurd P. Ramfjord Endowed Visiting Lectureship and
the Upper Peninsula Endowed Dental Scholarship in the School of Dentistry............ 10,000
KeyBank National Association, Toledo, Ohio
for the University Musical Society............................................ 17,000
Miles S. King, Boulder, Colorado
175 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Thomas J. Evans Memorial Scholarship Fund............................. 10,284
Laurence J. Kirshbaum, New York, New York
for the Laurence and Barbara Kirshbaum Strategic Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for support in the School of Music............................................. 36,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for support in the University Hospitals......................................... 29,704
Cary H. Klein, Allison Park, Pennsylvania
500 shares of JP Morgan Chase & Company common stock
for the Cary and Kathy Klein Endowed Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 19,025
Jean B. Knecht, Evanston, Illinois
750 shares of Honeywell International, Inc., common stock
for support in the Bentley Historical Library and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 27,041
James A. and Faith Knight Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Rouge River Bird Observatory Fund at University of Michigan-Dearborn........ 10,000
Arthur Kochoff, Dearborn Heights
4,354 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Mary and Arthur Kochoff Endowed Scholarship Fund,
the Kochoff Foreign Language Media Center Endowment Fund, and
other support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............................ 182,370
Adrian L. Kramer, Saint Clair Shores
for the University of Michigan Children's Cancer Fund in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................ 20,000
Gloria A. Kramer, Saint Clair Shores
for the University of Michigan Children's Cancer Fund in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................ 20,000
Krupman Family Foundation, Inc., Purchase, New York
for the Jackson Lewis Fund in the Law School................................. 20,000
Margaret L. Laird, Ann Arbor
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and College of Engineering and
for the Michigan League...................................................... 10,200
Curt and Jamie Launer Family Foundation of the Franklin Templeton Charitable Giving Fund,
Jenkintown, Pennsylvania
for the Innovation Initiative Fund and the Positive Organizational Scholarship in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business...................................... 10,000
Joseph T. A. Lee, Ann Arbor
for the Joseph T. A. Lee Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Joseph T. A. Lee and Elsie Choy Lee Endowed Scholarship Fund in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.................... 50,000
James E. Leonard, Ann Arbor
for the James Rae Lecture Series Endowment Fund and the Class of 1972 Fund in
the Medical School and
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens.......................................... 42,600
Jay J. Levin, West Bloomfield
340 shares of Sysco Corporation common stock
for the Jay J. Levin Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................. 12,878
Michael J. Levitt, Alpine, New Jersey
for the Levitt Family Scholarship in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............ 10,000


218




January Meeting, 2005


Wanda W. Lincoln, Vero Beach, Florida
for the Wanda W. Lincoln Marching Band Scholarship in the School of Music............30,000
Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Livingston Award for Young Journalists in
the Michigan Journalism  Fellows Program....................................... 40,625
Patricia Y. Lowrey, Grand Junction, Colorado
for the Center for the Education of Women Counseling Fund and
for the George H. Lowrey, M.D. Pediatric Endocrinology Fund in the Medical School...... 11,000
Joe Lunghamer Chevrolet, Inc., Pontiac
for the Joe Lunghamer Hockey Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 10,000
Joseph E. Lunghamer, Pontiac
for the Joe Lunghamer Hockey Scholarship Fund and other support in
the  Department of Athletics...................................................  10,800
David R. Macdonald Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in  the  Law  School.................................................  23,000
Madigan Family Foundation, Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.............................. 10,000
Thomas S. Maentz, Bloomfield Hills
for the Football Locker Room Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 100,000
Malloure Family Foundation, Beverly Hills
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  60,000
Manitoba Foundation, New York, New York
for the Regional Chemotherapy Research Fund in the Medical School in
memory  of Mrs. de  Gunzburg.................................................  75,000
Neil R. Mann, Chicago, Illinois
500 shares of Starbucks Corporation common stock
for the Building Fund  in the Law  School......................................... 34,775
Oliver F. Manzini, Seminole, Florida
for support in the School of Dentistry and the College of
Literature, Science, and  the  Arts................................................10,000
Oliver Dewey Marcks Foundation, Detroit
for the Men's Swimming and Diving Fund in the Department of Athletics............... 10,000
Paul D. Marquardt, Washington, D. C.
for the Paul D. Marquardt Scholarship Endowment Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 10,000
William C. Martin, Ann Arbor
for support in the Center for the Education of Women and
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
for the Robert and Elizabeth Teeter Bladder Cancer Research Fund in
the Medical School in memory of Susan M. Marshall.............................. 110,000
Marilyn M. Mason, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Center for the Education of Women,
for the Organ Enrichment Fund in the School of Music, and
for the Martha Cook  Building  Fund.............................................11,100
Terrence J. McDonald, Ann Arbor
for the Academic Advising Training Opportunities Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 25,000
James S. McDonnell Foundation, Saint Louis, Missouri
for research  in  the  M edical School............................................. 310,629
Beatrice K. McDowell, Akron, Ohio
for the Building  Fund  in the Law  School......................................... 100,000
McGrae Charitable Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the John D. and Carmen J. McGrae Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 10,000
McGregor Fund, Detroit
for the University  of Michigan-Dearborn......................................... 80,000
M. Mildred Mcxntosh, Boca Raton, Florida
177 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Mildred Mclntosh Dance Scholarship Endowment Fund in the School of Music.... 10,024
Vincent R. McLean, Westfield, New Jersey
460 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Harr H. Jones Endowment Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business...... 17,133
Debra Ball McMillan, Plymouth
for the Martha Cook Building Fund........................................... 10,000
Ronald D. and Regina C. McNeil Foundation, Inc., Lake Zurich, Illinois
for the Sandra M. Clark Endowed Sc~holarship Fund in the College of Engineering........ 30,000


219




January Meeting, 2005
w


Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
18, 100 shares of various corporate common stock and. a cash gift
for the Kelsey Museum Expansion Project................................... 1,034,116
Meijer, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Meijer Fellowship Endowment Fund in
the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy..................................... 50,000
Michael P. Manley, Flint
for suppor in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital.................................. 10,000
Michigan State Medical Society, East Lansing
for the James D. Bruce Fellowship in the Medical School............................ 19,125
Gar J. Miller, Del Mar, California
150 shares of Capital One Financial Corporation common stock
for support in the Stephen. M. Ross School. of Business and
for philosophy support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 12,288
Miller Parking Company, Detroit
for the suppor in the Department of Athletics................................... 10,000
James E. Montie, Ann Arbor
for the Babcoc~k Urologi cal Endowment Research. Fund and
the Reed Nesbit Professorship in Urology in the Medical School...................... 30,000
Joanne I. Moore Estate
for the Joanne 1. Moore Fund in Pharmacology in the Medical School................ 637,500
John. C. Morley, Cleveland Heights, Ohio
770 shares of Keycorp ommon. stoc~k and a cash gift
for the Innovation Initiative Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
for the Cleveland University of Michigan Club Scholarship......................... 26,138
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Scienc~e, and the Arts....................... 20,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation., Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint and
for employee matching gifts............................................... 281,449
MSJ Foundation, Grand Rapids
8,482 shares of Perrigo Company comnmon. stoc~k
for the Michael and Susan Jandemnoa Life Sciences Initiative Fund
in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................... 149,538
Janet S. Mueller, Saint Peter, Minnesota
for support in the Clements Librar............................................ 10,000
Multiple Sclerosis Foundation, In~c., For Lauderdale, Florida
for support in the Medical School............................................ 20,000
Mary C. Murphy Revocable Trust
for the Percy and Mar Murphy Endowed Children's Research Fund
in the Medical School..................................................... 20000
Maeve Murray Memorial Fund, Plymouth
for the Save a Heart Campaign Fund in the University Hospitals..................... 20,000
Gregor T. Mutz, Barrington, Illinois
for the Building Fund in the Law School....................................... 20000
Irene M. Myers, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Sc'hool of Art and Design.................................... 100,000
William D. Myers, Bloomfield Hills
for the Dean's Scholarship Fund in the Medical School............................ 100,000
Paulette Najarian-Knight, Clarkston, Illinois
for the Najarian Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy............................ 10,000
Sang Y. Nam, Ann Arbor
600 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Korean Collection in the Museum of Art................................. 36,05
National Alliance for Autism Research, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
for fellowships in the Colleg~e of Literature, Scienc'e, and the Arts.................... 23,500
NT IonalPublic1Bradcasting, NewYork, New'Yor


220




January Mteeting, 2005


Sarah W. Newman, Ann Arbor
for scholarships and student financial aid in the Center for the Education of Women and
for WFUM............................................................. 10,120
Newman Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Newman Family Professorship Fund in Radiation Oncology in
the Medical School.................................................... 50,000
Virginia Stewart Nicklas, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Virginia S. Nicklas Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the School of Music, and
for the University Alumni Association......................................... 11,125
Charles F. Niemeth, New York, New York
for the Charles F. and Anne M. Niemeth Charitable Gift Annuity for
the ultimate benefit of the Law School.......................................... 502,500
Richard M. Noel, Champaign, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 10,000
Novartis, East Hanover, New Jersey
for fellowships in the Medical School........................................ 10,000
NSF International, Ann Arbor
for the NSF International Graduate Award Fund in the School of Public Health......... 50,000
Phyllis E. Orde Estate
for the Dr. Abraham and Anne Eiseman Library Endowment Fund in
the University Library....................................................... 75,000
David and Lucille Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for fellowships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................... 125,000
Sujit K. Pandit, Ann Arbor
for Bengali studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 10,000
Papadopoulos Family Trust
11,000 shares of Regeneration Technologies, Inc., common stock
for the Papadopoulos Family Athletic Medicine Fund and other support in
the Department of Athletics............................................... 107,500
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center...........................100,000
Claude M. Pearson, Tacoma, Washington
for the Claude M. Pearson Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Law School and
for University Alumni Association............................................ 20,100
Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc., Somers, New York
for support in the Medical School........................................... 25,00
Steven W. Percy, Akron, Ohio
for support in the Department of Athletics and
for the Corporate Environmental Management Program in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
the School of Natural Resources and Environment................................. 25,000
Martha M. Peterson, Farmington Hills
for the Gary Peterson Memorial Fund in Civil Engineering in
the College of Engineering.................................................. 10,000
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the Division of Kinesiology, the School of Nursing,
the College of Pharmacy, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the Women in Science and Engineering Program............................78,193
Pfizer Women's Network, Ann Arbor
for the Fund for Hope in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................... 10,900
M. Harry Piper, Linden
1,000 shares of Wyeth common stock
for the University of Michigan-Flint......................................... 40,470
Porter Family Foundation, Ann Arbor
for Nichols Arboretum................................................ 25,000
L. Norris Post, Creedmoor, North Carolina
for the Julie Norris Post Heathdale Collection Endowment Fund and
for WFUM............................................................ 10,100
Prostate Cancer Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School........................................ 100,000
Ramapo Trust
for research in the School of Public Health....................................... 50,000
Diana Mendley Rauner, Winnetka, Illinois
for Camp Michigania................................................... 300,000
James G. Ravin, Toledo, Ohio
182 shares of Eli Lilly & Company common stock
for the KEC Building Development Fund.................................... 10,147


221




January Meeting, 2005


Ravitz Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Division of Kinesiology,
for the Ravitz Foundation Endowment Fund in Oral Surgery in the School of Dentistry, and
for the Ravitz Foundation Professorship in Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases in the Medical School................................... 400,000
James and Bonnie Reece Charitable Fund of the Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Jim and Bonnie Reece Men's Hockey Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the College of Engineering and
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business, and
for the  University  M usical Society.............................................. 28,000
Florence M. Rennie Scholarship Trust
for the Florence M. Rennie Scholarship Foundation Award in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 89,500
John Rich, Beverly Hills, California
for the John Rich Dean's Merit Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 50,000
Margaret A. Riecker, Midland
for the Margaret A. and John E. Riecker Law Library Fund in the Law School............20,000
Paul C. Robertson, Jr., Birmingham
for support in the College of Engineering and
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 11,000
Kenneth J. Robinson, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judy and Ken Robinson Gift Fund and the Judy and Ken Robinson Endowment Fund in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center in memory of David N. Seay and
for support in  the  M edical School..............................................  10,400
Richard A. and Hope S. Rosen Living Trust
for the Walgreen Drama - Arthur Miller Theatre and other support in
the  School of M usic.........................................................  20,500
Bruce S. Rosenblatt, Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey
for the Rosenblatt Endowment Fund in the College of Engineering.................... 40,000
Amnon Rosenthal, Ann Arbor
945 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Docent Program in the Museum of Art and
for the University  M usical Society.............................................. 35,022
Leonard Rosenzweig Estate
for the Dean's Scholarship Fund in the Medical School............................. 25,000
Stephen M. Ross, New York, New York
for the Stephen M. Ross Expansion, Construction, and Facility Renovation Fund in
the  Stephen  M. Ross School of Business....................................... 5,624,164
Charles R. Rouhier, Oilville, Virginia
for the Charles R. Rouhier Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Elise Katz-Rouhier Memorial Scholarship Endowment Fund in
the  College  of Pharmacy...................................................... 30,000
Ernestine Ruben, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Building Fund in the Museum  of Art..................................... 200,000
Henry W. Ruifrok Trust
for the Emil Lorch Dean's Discretionary Fund in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning...................25,000
Alma Ruppenthal, Troy
1,067 units of Legg Mason Value Trust mutual funds
for the Henry Ruppenthal Family Professorship in the Medical School
Kevin A. Russell, Wilmette, Illinois
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 20,000
Samuel 1. Russell Estate
for the Computer Science and Engineering Building Fund in the College of Engineering... 46,592
Sanger Family Foundation, Wayzata, Minnesota
1,090 shares of General Mills, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Academic Center and other support in the Department of Athletics and
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............................. 53,192
Donald W. Schembechler Estate
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........25,000
Patricia C. Schemm Charitable Unitrust, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Ferdinand Ripley Schemm Fund in the Medical School....................... 55,347
Albert G. and Olive H. Schlink Foundation, Norwalk, Ohio
for the Alber G. Schlink Endowment Fund in the Medical School..................... 10,000


222




January Mteeting, 2005


Lawrence M. Schloss, New York, New York
442 shares of Fisher Scientific International common stock
for the Sarpedoneum Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 25,446
Shirley Peck Schultz, Golden Valley, Minnesota
160 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock
for the Shirley Peck Schultz Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 10,146
Peter A. Schweitzer, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Schweitzer Collegiate Scholarship Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the University Alumni Association........................................ 100,500
Richard F. Scott, Ann Arbor
for the James R. Hayward Professorship in the School of Dentistry.................... 10,000
Seiger Family Foundation, Los Altos Hills, California
for the Joseph and Randee Seiger Scholarship in the Law School..................... 10,000
Seinfeld Family Foundation, Bellmore, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 10,000
Dorothy A. Servis, Missoula, Montana
175 shares of Equitable Resources, Inc., common stock
for the Building Fund in the Law School.................................10,205
Harold T. Shapiro, Princeton, New Jersey
487 units of Vanguard Growth & Income mutual fund
for the Harold T. and Vivian B. Shapiro Prize Fund in the School of Social Work......... 15,000
Benson P. and Norma L. Shapiro Fund of the Fleet Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Norma L. Shapiro Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 10,000
Shell Oil Company, Houston, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering, the Stephen M. Ross School of Business, and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 125,000
Leonard G. Siegal, Farmington Hills
325 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Leonard G. and Bluma A. Siegal Merit Scholarship in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.................. 20,051
Silkroad Foundation, Saratoga, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 20,000
Roger W. Simmons, Ypsilanti
for the Roger and Elaine Zatkoff Scholarship and
the Detroit University of Michigan Club Scholarship, and
for Lloyd and Laurie Carr Endowment Fund in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center in memory of Mary Ellen Levinson................. 24,300
Charles L. Smith, Perrysburg, Ohio
for support in the College of Pharmacy,
for the KEC Building Development Fund and other support in the Kellogg Eye Center and
for the Museum of Art.................................................. 27,687
Shirley R. Smith, Plymouth
for the Wallace Smith Memorial Cancer Research Fund in the Medical School.......... 10,000
Susan M. Smith, Ann Arbor
1,105 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for the Susan Meredith Smith Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 25,001
Janet C. Smith Agency, Ann Arbor
for the William S. Smith Professorship in Orthopaedic Surgery in the Medical School..... 10,000
Stanley Smith Horticultural Trust
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens and Nichols Arboretum.......................... 14,833
Judy W. Soley, Scarsdale, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the Michigan League................................................... 11,000
Jerold S. Solovy, Chicago, Illinois
for the Jerold and Kathleen Solovy Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................  10,000
Robert E. Spatt, New York, New York
for the Building Fund and other support in the Law School...................... 11,200
Harold K. Sperlich, Orchard Lake
400 shares of American International Group, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for support in the College of Engineering and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.... 27,094
Haley Sperling Memorial Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Haley H. Sperling Memorial Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................  15,000
Elmer and Sylvia Sramek Charitable Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School........................................ 81,120


223




Gladys D. Stark Estate
for the Gladys D. and Walter R. Stark Graduate Fellowship
in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
for the Stark Dean's Merit Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 255,000
James Stengel, New York, New York
for support in the Law School............................................... 10,000
Irvin. Stern Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Irvin Stern Foundation Program Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 25,000
Jeffrey and. Susan Stern Philanthropic Fund. of the Jewish Communal Fund, New York, New York
for the Organizational Studies Strategic Fund in
the College of Literature, Scienc'e, and the Arts.................................. 50,000
Clinton F. Stimpson 1II, Fort Gratiot
for support in the College of Engineering, the Stephen M. Ross School of Business, and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 45,000
Nancy A. Symons, Elyria, Ohio
200 shares of Proc'ter & Gamble Company common. stoc'k
for the Martha Cook Building Fund, the Dan Baker Symons Scholarship Fund, and
the Michigan League and
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and
the College of Literature, Scienc'e, and the Arts.................................. 11,230
TCF National Bank, Ann Arbor
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and
for the Robert J. Delonis Memorial Scholarship and the TCF Scholarship at
the University of Michigan................................................. 12,025
Joseph F. Tetlak, Bratenahi., Ohio
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics..................... 12,272
Donald G. Therasse,, Zionsville, Indiana
200 shares of Eli Lilly & Company common stock
for the Donald and Patricia Therasse Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy............ 11,091
Lynda R. Thomas, Grosse Pointe
for the Charles M. Thomas Esophageal Cancer Endowment Research Fund in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................ 10,000
Clarice Brows Thor Estate
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies................... 18,449
Noel M. Ti 'hy, Ann Arbor
for the Global Corporate Citizenship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..... 62,500
Frederick C. Tinsey III, Troy
for the Fred and Diane Tinsey Endowed Football Scholarship and other support in
the Department of Athletics and
for the Paton Ac'counting Center and other suppor in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business....................................... 20,800
Tisch Foundation, New York, New York
for the Tisch Endowment Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 600,000
Roy M. Tolleson, Jr., Estate
for support in the Law Sc'hool............................................... 10,000
James L. Townsend, Louisville, Kentucky
230 shares of Banta Corporation common stock
for the Sudden Hearing Loss Research Fund in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute....10,271
Harr A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Midland
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics and
for the Harry A. and Margaret Towsley Policy Makers in Residence Fund in
the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.................................... 850,130
Sinibaldo Tozzi, Palm Beach, Florida
500 shares of Dell., Inc., common. stock
Ern S. 'Tracy.1 11Estate1                                                      f


224




Elizabeth Upjohn-Mason, Kalamazoo
4,000 shares of Stryker Corporation common stock
for the Norman Thompson, M.D. Professorship of Surgery Fund in the Medical School.. 182,320
UPS Foundation, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for scholarships in the College of Engineering and
for the Gerald R. Ford Scholarship in honor of Robert M. Teeter.................... 115,000
V Foundation, Cary, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School........................................ 100,000
Doug T. and Laurie J. Valassis Charitable Lead Annuity Trust, Lake Forest, Illinois
for the George Valassis Endowed Scholarship in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business...................................... 25,000
George F. Valassis Charitable Lead Trust, Deerfield, Illinois
for the Valassis Professorship of Urologic Oncology and
for the Urologic Oncology Research Fund in the Medical School.................... 250,000
Eric W. Vetter, Windsor, California
for the Ph.D. Program in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
for the Robert B. and Miryam Knutson Presidential Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for the Chris Parks Michigan Daily Journalism Award Fund.......................... 15,500
Alexander S. Vida, Bradbury, California
for the Alexander S. Vida, M.D., Memorial Scholarship in the Medical School.......... 10,000
Wallace Foundation, New York, New York
for the Wallace Endowment Fund.......................................... 1,000,000
Nancy Williams Walls, Ann Arbor
for the Nancy W. Walls Dean's Merit Scholarship and other support in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 26,000
Timothy Wadhams Trust, Ann Arbor
for support at the University of Michigan.................................... 125,000
Gary T. Walther, Winnetka, Illinois
532 shares of Sun Life Financial, Inc., preferred stock and a cash gift
for support in the College of Engineering and
for the Harriett and John Walther Scholarship in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business...................................... 17,907
Hor-Lay Wang, Ann Arbor
for the Hom-Lay Wang Periodontics Fund for Excellence in the School of Dentistry...... 10,000
Douglas W. Wanty, Ann Arbor
for the Cardiovascular Center Building Development Fund in the University Hospitals..... 10,000
Diana D. Wantz, New York, New York
for the George E. Wantz Professorship in the History of Medicine in the Medical School... 75,000
Patricia A. Warner, Ann Arbor
for support in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital and the Medical School and
for the John R. Griffith Fund, the Avedis Donabedian Memorial Scholarship,
the Myron E. Wegman Fund, and other support in the School of Public Health.......... 11,550
William E. Watch, Troy
for the Real Estate Initiative Fund in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.................. 12,500
Joyce L. Watson, Ann Arbor
488 shares of Verizon Communications common stock and a cash gift
for the Joyce L. Watson Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Museum  of Art.........................................................  25,969
Roy E. and Carol W. Weber Charitable Lead Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Roy E. Weber General Thoracic Surgery Research Fund in the Medical School...... 25,000
Marshall Weinberg Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Communal Fund, New York, New York
for the Marshall Weinberg Endowment at Population Studies Fund in
the Institute for Social Research,
for the Marshall Weinberg Endowed Fund for Summer Fellowships in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment, and
for the Marshall Weinberg Endowed Fund in Judaic Studies and
the Marshall M. Weinberg Endowment for Graduate Students Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 600,000
Walter H. Weiner Philanthropic Fund of the Anti-Defamation League Foundation,
New York, New York
for the Building Fund in the Law School..................................... 20,000
Anthony J. Werderitsch, Saline
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics................................ 10,000
David Westin, New York, New York
for support in the Law School.............................................. 10,000


225




January Mteeting, 2005


Kimberly Whipple, Bloomfield Hills
for the Cardiovascular Center Building Development Fund.......................... 50,000
Mrs. William C. Wilkinson, Vero Beach, Florida
386 shares of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., common stock
for research in the Medical School............................................. 20,442
Warren P. Williamson III, Naples, Florida
for support at the University of Michigan...................................... 575,000
Kenneth R. Wirt, Saratoga, California
220 shares of Oshkosh Truck Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Honors Program and other support in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 15,119
Wolf Family Foundation of the Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland, Cleveland, Ohio
for the MBA Domestic Corp Fund and student aid in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business........................................ 25,000
Woodmere Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Robert B. and Miryam Knutson Presidential Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 50,000
Nancy Upjohn Woodworth, Sanibel, Florida
4,000 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for the Upjohn Woodworth Professorship Fund in the Medical School................ 108,880
Thomas B. Woodworth, Sanibel, Florida
10,750 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for the Upjohn Woodworth Professorship Fund in the Medical School................ 292,615
Woodworth-Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 10,000
Fred Yaffe, Bloomfield Hills
for the Yaffee Collaborative Advertising Workshop in the School of Art and Design and
for the Yaffee Collaborative Center in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.......... 79,000
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Law Scholarship in the Law School................................ 50,000
William A. and Shirley P. Yolles Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the William A. and Shirley P. Yolles Graduate Fund in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............................... 10,000
Zatkoff Family Foundation, Farmington Hills
for the Lloyd and Laurie Carr Endowment Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center in
memory of Mary Ellen Unger and for the Roger and Elaine Zatkoff Scholarship........ 20,772
Stanley R. Zax, Woodland Hills, California
2,000 shares of Zenith National Insurance Company common stock
for support in the Law School................................................ 93,060
Zell Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Helen Herzog Zell Professorship in Fiction Fund,
the Helen Zell Fund for Graduate Student Support, and
the Helen Zell Fund for the MFA Program in Creative Writing in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 1,150,000
Lonny E. Zietz, Ada
for support in the Department of Athletics and
for the James R. Hayward Professorship in the School of Dentistry.................... 10,800
Frank K. Zinn, Grosse Pointe Farms
430 shares of Stryker Corporation common stock
for the Building Fund and other support in the Law School.......................... 19,903
Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:
James D. Abrams, Highland Park, Illinois   Association for Computing Machinery, Inc., New
Richard J. Alder, Westland                    York, New York
Richard R. Allen, Greensboro, North Carolina  ATI Electronics, LLC, Wixom
E. Bryce Alpern, Bloomfield Hills          Karl F. Balz, Goettingen, Germany
American Axel and Manufacturing, Detroit   Myrtle Bell Estate
American Standard Foundation, Piscataway, New  Peter Benedek, Beverly Hills, California
Jersey                                   Steven C. Benz, Adrian
Herbert S. Amster, Ann Arbor               Roland Berger & Partner, LLC, Troy
Another Ann Arbor, Inc., Ann Arbor         Claire Bemstein Trust
Anonymous Donor                            Berry Foundation, Ann Arbor
Anonymous Donor                            Bishop International Airport Authority, Flint
Charlene P. Archibeque, Los Altos, California  Arthur R. Block, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Debra A. Armbruster, Centennial, Colorado  George and June Block Family Foundation, Inc.,
Eric R. Arnson, Lake Forest, Illinois         Chiicago, Illinois
Arthritis Foundation Michigan Chapter, Southfield Boardwalk, Dearborn


226




January Meeting, 2005


Edward L. Bove, Ann Arbor
John Seely Brown, Palo Alto, California
Joseph M. Buonaiuto, Powell, Ohio
Joseph L. Campbell, Zionsville, Indiana
Charles R. Canty, Butte, Montana
Albert J. Capoferi Trust
Thomas B. Case, Olympia Fields, Illinois
Janet E. Cassebaum, Ann Arbor
Jung Hoon Chang, Hong Kong, Peoples Republic
of China
Cheryl S. Chapekis, Dublin, Ohio
Markham S. Cheever, Tequesta, Florida
Chevron Research Company, Richmond,
California
Dana M. Cluckey, Owosso
President Mary Sue and Dr. Kenneth Coleman,
Ann Arbor
Conway Family Foundation, Grand Rapids
Hal Cooper, Beverly Hills, California
Alice S. Corey, Altadena, California
Charles P. Cousland, Oconomowoc, Wisconsin
George H. Cress, Ann Arbor
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
George W. Danz, Wyandotte
James E. Daverman, Glencoe, Illinois
Delphi Automotive Systems, Pontiac
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
David A. DeMuro, New York, New York
Thomas Denomme, Bloomfield Hills
Denso International America, Inc., Southfield
Timothy L. Dickinson, Washington, D. C.
Michael A. DiPietro, Ann Arbor
Wendy Dolin, Glencoe, Illinois
Jim's Golf Classic, Utica
Frank K. Duiven, Boyne City
Eucalyptus Associates, Inc., San Francisco,
California
Excelda Manufacturing, Brighton
Randall S. Faber, Ann Arbor
Jerome D. Farmer II, Ann Arbor
Frank B. Fehsenfeld, Grand Rapids
Murray J. Feiwell, Indianapolis, Indiana
Steven M. Freeman, Chicago, Illinois
Henry E. Fuldner, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
Charles E. Furr, Kailua, Hawaii
Garbose Family Foundation, Gwynedd Valley,
Pennsylvania
John W. Geissman, Albuquerque, New Mexico
Timothy P. Gerios, Piano, Texas
Harry C. Gibson, Kalispell, Montana
John W. Glace, Femdale
Robert D. Glauz, Davis, California
Ralph E. Goldberg, New York, New York
Robert T. Goldman, West Bloomfield
Charles J. Goodis, Albuquerque, New Mexico
Peter K. Gould, Chicago, Illinois
Great Lakes Red Sox Baseball Club, Woodhaven
Walter and Lola Green Family Foundation of the
Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston,
Massachusetts


Barbara V. Grinke, Royal Oak
Vicki and Michael Gross Family Foundation, Inc.,
New York, New York
Guidant, Saint Paul, Minnesota
Betty G. Haas, Atlanta, Georgia
Janice L. Hall, Brooklyn, New York
Sheldon and Eva Hamburger Philanthropic Fund of
the United Jewish Foundation of Metropolitan
Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
Jean R. Hamill, Plymouth
Jerry F. Hanlon, Ann Arbor
Harlan Foundation, Williamsburg
HarleyEllis, Southfield
Marian E. Harris, Lakewood, New Jersey
Roger B. Harris, Chicago, Illinois
William Harris Investors, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Shattuck W. Hartwell, Jr., Chagrin Falls, Ohio
John T. Heitmann, Tucson, Arizona
Joseph L. Hudson IV, Madison, Wisconsin
Larry D. Hunter, El Segundo, California
Curtis E. Huntington, Boston, Massachusetts
Ichikoh Industries, LTD., Kanagawa, Japan
Gail M. Inaba, New York, New York
International Society of Barristers, Ann Arbor
Gretchen N. Jackson, Ann Arbor
Marjorie M. Jackson Revocable Trust
Ira J. Jaffe, Southfield
James P. and Gail W. Young Family Fund at the
Schwab Fund for Charitable Giving, San
Francisco, California
Japan Business Society of Detroit Foundation,
Southfield
Peter T. Joseph Foundation, New York, New York
E. J. Justema, Jr., Hinsdale, Illinois
Douglas I. Kalish, Palo Alto, California
Jim Kamman, Laguna Hills, California
A. T. Kearney, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
David B. Kennedy, Ann Arbor
Richard A. Kerr, Battle Creek
Lance E. Kesselring, Ann Arbor
Robert J. Kheel, New York, New York
Rhea K. Kish, Ann Arbor
Hermine R. Klinger, Ann Arbor
Jamie Baker Knauss, San Marino, California
A. Scott Lachniet, Muskegon
Sally LaMarra, Brighton
Susan E. Landauer, Manchester
Edward G. Larsen, Sam Rayburn, Texas
James L. Learner, London, England
Richard Lewnau, West Bloomfield
Living Free Foundation, Birmingham
Lockheed Martin, Lakeland, Florida
James E. Lurie, Bethesda, Maryland
Lawrence A. Macklem, Ann Arbor
Macomber Family Fund of the Fidelity Investments
Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
Monroe D. Macpherson, Winchester, Virginia
Timothy M. Manganello, Bloomfield Hills


227




January Meeting, 2005


Mardigian Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
Mars Industries, Inc., Detroit
Sophie Marshall, Palatine, Illinois
Steven W. Martineau, Mount Pleasant
Christine Matoian, Bloomfield Hills
Jerry and Deborah May, Ann Arbor
Suki A. McClatchey, Evanston, Illinois
SunMee L. McClatchey, Washington, D. C.
Mark A. McDowell, Mullica Hill, New Jersey
Charlotte McGeoch, Swartz Creek
James W. Mercer, Jr., Pacific Palisades, California
Merck & Company, Inc., Whitehouse Station, New
Jersey
Roger F. Meyer, Grosse Pointe
Michigan Track Club, Inc., Ann Arbor
Leonard G. Miller, Williamsburg, Virginia
MK&A Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
Jack A. Molenkamp, Washington, D. C.
Ira S. Mondry, Birmingham
Arnold P. Morawa, Ann Arbor
Sally Morley, Cleveland Heights, Ohio
Richard C. Morrissey, London, England
William T. Muir, Franklin, Tennessee
National Psoriasis Foundation, Portland, Oregon
Brendan T. Nedzi, Montclair, New Jersey
Arnold M. Nemirow, Greenville, South Carolina
Nextenergy Center, Detroit
Ronald and Joan Nordgren Fund of the Fidelity
Investments Charitable Fund, Boston,
Massachusetts
Northrop Grumman, Baltimore, Maryland
Novellus Systems, Inc., San Jose, California
Novo Nordisk Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Princeton,
New Jersey
Ronald L. Olson, Los Angeles, California
Graham A. Orley, Bloomfield Hills
Lewis J. Paper, Potomac, Maryland
Roger P. Pascal, Evanston, Illinois
Ara G. Paul, Ann Arbor
Louis Perlmutter, New York, New York
Karen and Drew Peslar Foundation, Birmingham
Pharmacia Matching Gift Program, Princeton, New
Jersey
Sidney L. Pilson, Nashville, Tennessee
Barbara L. Piper Trust
Metodi C. Pogoncheff, Lansing
Laurence J. Pons, Brighton
Jill and Mark Rachesky Charitable Foundation,
New York, New York
Related Capital Company, LLC, New York, New
York
Kathryn A. Renken Trust
Shelley Resnick, Encinco, California
Robert W. Richards, Highland
William B. Richards, New Albany, Ohio
Riverview Firefighter Association, Riverview
Robert J. Rock, Birmingham
John W. Rogers, Fort Myers, Florida
Dennis E. Ross, Bloomfield Hills
Janice L. Ross, Bloomfield Hills


Sterling L. Ross, Jr., Mill Valley, California
Pauline Rothmeyer Estate
Rotor Electric Company, Detroit
Raymond W. Ruddon, Jr., Ann Arbor
Kristen Sarri, Silver Spring, Maryland
Stephanie Savarino, Ann Arbor
Schlumberger Limited, Sugar Land, Texas
Thomas C. Scott, Evanston, Illinois
Oliver E. Seikel, Cleveland, Ohio
Myron M. Sheinfeld, Houston, Texas
Chester P. Shelly, Naples, Florida
Karen H. Shook, Washington, D. C.
Sandra B. Simon, Ann Arbor
Martin H. Singer, Northbrook, Illinois
William L. Smith, Jr., Ann Arbor
Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers,
Jersey City, New Jersey
Stanley M. Sorscher, Seattle, Washington
StorageTek Foundation, Louisville, Colorado
Stanley S. Stroup, Hilton Head, South Carolina
Sunrise Advertising, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio
Judith Sutherland, Bloomfield Hills
G. Leonard Teitelbaum, Holmdel, New Jersey
Elma Private Foundation, Inc., Wilmington,
Delaware
Catherine B. Thoburn, Ann Arbor
Charles E. Thomas, Jr., Lemoyne, Pennsylvania
Leo W. Tobin III, Heathsville, Virginia
John G. Topliss, Ann Arbor
Ruth L. Townsend, Birmingham
Charles J. Trick, Livonia
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann
Arbor
University of Michigan Club of Greater Chicago,
Chicago, Illinois
University of Michigan Club of Washington, D. C.,
Washington, D. C.
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, Saint Joseph
VanBoven, Inc., Ann Arbor
Thomas A. Van Tiem, Sr., Detroit
George A. Vinyard, Chicago, Illinois
Susan Vitale, Chesterfield
Edward H. Wahtera, Breckenridge, Colorado
Thomas W. Wakefield, Ann Arbor
Marcus B. Waller, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
Welsh Living Trust, Pacific Palisades, California
Paul F. Werler, Minneapolis, Minnesota
Jay A. Werschky, Flint
W. Scott Wilkinson, Birmingham
Kenneth D. Williams, Olympia Fields, Illinois
Frank B. Womer Living Trust, Ann Arbor
Kathryn and Walter Wriston Family Foundation of
the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
Lawrence C. Wu, Troy
Zeimet-Wozniak & Associates, Inc., Southfield
Lynda Siegel Zengerle, Washington, D. C.
John D. Ziegelman, Chicago, Illinois
Zingermans Bakehouse, Inc., Ann Arbor


228




The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Cisco Systems, San Jose, California
Cisco wireless Network Infrastructure equipment for the College of Engineering
Gross Electric, Inc., Toledo, Ohio
electrical supplies and fixtures for the Nature Center at Camp Michigania
Werner Gundersheimer, Williamstown, Massachusett
three paintings by Kathy Jacobsen for the Museum of Art
Janice B. Longone, Ann Arbor
two rare culinary-related books for the Clements Library
Robert J. Miller, Bingham Farms
several selected pieces of art by Ilya Bolotowsky and Fletcher Benton for the Museum of Art
Robert Moss, Farmington Hills
several selected pieces of art by Ilya Bolotowsky and Fletcher Benton for the Museum of Art
Russell A. Pizer, Palm Coast, Florida
a collection of fine musical instruments for the School of Music
James S. Slosberg, Ann Arbor
real property for the College of Engineering
Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions. He
called attention to the recommended appointment of Sally Camper as chair of the
Department of Human Genetics in the Medical School.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR. RANKS.,
WITH TEN URE
Effective on January 1, 2005
Newman, Mark E., Ph.D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on January 1, 2005
Wang, Lumin, Ph.D., Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of
Engineering
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Howell, Joel D., Professor of Health Management and Policy, without tenure, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
McMahon, Laurence F., Jr., Professor of Health Management and Policy, without tenure, School of
Public Health, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
EJffctive on the dates indicated
Barald, Kate F., Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, with tenure, Medical School, also
appointed Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
January 1, 2005-December 31, 2007
Berguer, Ramon, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, January 1, 2005-December 31, 2007
Biro, Matthew N., Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, and Associate Professor of History
of Art in the Residential College, with tenure, also appointed Acting Chair, Department of History
of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-May 31, 2005
Camper, Sally A., Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, and Professor of Human Genetics, with
tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of Human Genetics, Medical School, January 1, 2005


229




January Meeting, 2005


ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Renaming an Established Colleiate Professorshi
Clarence L. "Kelly" Johnson Collegiate Professorship in Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1, 2005
Establishing an Endowed Professorshp
R. Jamison and Betty J. Williams Professorship in Otolaryngology, February 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointments to CollegiateProfessorshipxs
Loewenberg Ball, Deborah, William H. Payne Collegiate Professor in Education, School of Education,
January 1, 2005-December 31, 2009
Reynolds, R. Kevin, George W. Morley Collegiate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical
School, January 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
St. John, Edward P., Algo D. Henderson Collegiate Professor of Education, School of Education,
January 1, 2005-December 31, 2009
Yaeger, Patricia S., Henry Simmons Frieze Collegiate Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1, 2005-December 31, 2009
Appointments to Endowed Professorships
Colletti, Lisa M., C. Gardner Child Professor of Surgery, Medical School, February 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Neuhoff, David L., Joseph E. and Anne P. Rowe Professor of Electrical Engineering, College of
Engineering, January 1, 2005-December 31, 2009
Pollock, Tresa M., L. H. and F. E. Van Vlack Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, College of
Engineering, January 1, 2005-December 31, 2009
Appointment to a Named Professorshio
Kritsiotis, Dino, L. Bates Lea Visiting Professor of Law, Law School, February 1-April 30, 2005
Reapointmentsto Colleiate Professorships
Cho, Kyung J., William Martel Collegiate Professor of Radiology, Medical School,
April 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Hollenberg, Paul F., Maurice H. Seevers Collegiate Professor of Pharmacology, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Johnson, Timothy M., William B. Taylor Collegiate Professor of Dermatology, Medical School,
November 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Other Transactions
Fierke, Carol A., Chair, Department of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1, 2005-June 30, 2010
Hammoud, Maya M., Assistant Dean for Student Programs, Medical School, January 20, 2005
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Michigan League Board of Governors
Senkevitch, Anatole, Jr., faculty representative, retroactive, May 1, 2004-April 30, 2007, vice N. Reed
Dunnick, term expired
Military; fficer Education Program Executive Committee
Blair, David C., faculty representative, reappointment, retroactive, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Lirtzman, Abigail R., student representative, new appointment, retroactive,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Martin, Amanda B., student representative, new appointment, retroactive, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005


230




January Mteeting, 2005


McLean, Mary Ellen, faculty representative, retroactive, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007, vice
Donald Deskins, term expired
Pierce, Penny F., faculty representative, reappointment, retroactive, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
CORRECTION TO PREVIOUSLY APPROVED
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENT
Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics
Stapleton, James F., alumni representative, reappointed, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2006 (previously reported
as July 1, 2003-June 30, 2005)
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Shere, Daniel A., B.A., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1-April 30, 2005
Lajiness-O'Neill, Renee R., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Karam, Lina N., D.M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
November 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Kolker, Justine L., D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Sachs, Dana L., M.D., Clinical Associate Professor of Dermatology, Medical School,
November 30, 2004-November 29, 2007
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Mazza, Michael B., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
(previously reported as Lecturer in Radiology)
Muscato, Mark A., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
(previously reported as Lecturer in Radiology)
Shoosmith, John P., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
(previously reported as Lecturer in Radiology)
Mobley, Natalie H., M.S., Clinical Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005 (previously reported as Lecturer in Nursing)
Rose, Sherry E., M.S.N., Clinical Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005 (previously reported as Lecturer in Nursing)
Salerno, Jennifer A., B.S.N., Clinical Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005 (previously reported as Lecturer in Nursing)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Kurabayashi, Katsuo, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering also appointed Assistant Professor
of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Umstadter, Donald P., from Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure,
and Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with tenure, to Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, College of Engineering, January 1, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Green, Daniel G., Professor Emeritus of Physiological Optics, Medical School, Professor Emeritus of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering,


231




January Meeting, 2005


College of Engineering, and Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1-December 31, 2005
Konnak, John W., Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Fricke, Thomas E., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 2005
Saxonhouse, Gary R., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Pincus, Leslie B., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Stembridge, John R., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2005
Price, Richard H., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Dunnick, Wesley, Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, December 4, 2004-June 4, 2005
Shevrin, Howard, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor of Psychology,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough,
January 1-December 31, 2005
Colish, Julie E., Lecturer in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, personal leave,
January 1-May 31, 2005
Law, Dorothea, Lecturer in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, personal leave,
January 1-May 31, 2005
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Dimendberg, Edward, Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Film and Video Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, November 23, 2004
Beydoun, Ahmad A., Professor of Neurology, with tenure, Medical School, November 28, 2004
Powell, Lana D., Clinical Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, January 29, 2005
Raymond, Delbert M., III, Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, December 31, 2004
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted three faculty retirement
memoirs.
Roy A. Glover, Ph.D., associate professor of cell and developmental biology in
the Medical School, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2004, after a
productive career as an educator and researcher.
Professor Glover received his B.S. degree at Calvin College in Grand Rapids,
Michigan, in 1959 and his M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees at The Ohio State University in
1963 and 1968, respectively. Professor Glover joined the University of Michigan
faculty as an instructor in 1968 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1970 and
associate professor in 1990.
Professor Glover was heavily engaged in discovering innovative methods and
educational uses for plastination research, and he served as director of the Plastination
Laboratory from 2001-04. He served on and chaired numerous school and departmental
committees and was a member of the Senate Assembly. As an active member of the
gross anatomy teaching team and director of the medical neuroscience course, Professor
Glover played a major role in the education of medical students. Widely recognized as
an outstanding teacher, he was voted "Neural and Behavioral Science Teacher of the


232




January Meeting, 2005


Year" eight times. His other major teaching awards include the University's Kaiser
Permanente Award for Teaching Excellence (1982), the Amoco Outstanding Teaching
Award (1985), and a national award for teaching excellence from the University of
Medicine and Dentistry in New Jersey (1989).
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by
naming Roy A. Glover associate professor emeritus of cell and developmental biology.
Stevo Julius, M.D., Sc.D., Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor of Hypertension,
professor of internal medicine, and professor of molecular and integrative physiology in
the Medical School, retired from active faculty status on January 14, 2005.
A native of the former Yugoslavia, Dr. Julius received his M.D. and Sc.D
degrees from the University of Zagreb in 1953 and 1964, respectively. He joined the
University of Michigan as an instructor in internal medicine in 1965 and was promoted
to assistant professor in 1967, associate professor in 1971, and professor in 1974. He
was appointed associate professor of physiology in 1980 and was promoted to professor
in 1983. In 1996, Dr. Julius was named the Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor of
Hypertension.
Dr. Julius' research led to the concept of the hyperkinetic borderline
hypertensive state and demonstrated the fundamental pathophysiological role of the
sympathetic nervous system in the hyperkinetic state. He transformed the Tecumseh
Community Health Study, a landmark epidemiological investigation, into the Tecumseh
Blood Pressure Study and demonstrated that hyperkinetic borderline hypertension was
not a response to the stress involved in invasive hemodynamic studies and that there
was a link between sympathetic activity and the metabolic syndrome. In recent years,
he has focused on international clinical trials. One particularly intriguing ongoing
study, the Trial of Preventing Hypertension ("TROPHY"), could lead to the
development of an entirely novel approach to hypertension prevention.
As chief of the Division of Hypertension for 25 years, Dr. Julius trained a cohort
of young investigators and had a profound effect on hypertension education. His
contributions in this area were recognized in 1989 when the International Society of
Hypertension established the Stevo Julius Award for Excellence in Hypertension
Education, awarded to a person with a distinguished record in hypertension-related
teaching. His work in the areas of cardiology and hypertension and on cardiovascular
diagnosis and therapeutics and has had a profound effect around the world.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Stevo Julius professor emeritus of internal medicine and professor
emeritus of molecular and integrative physiology.
B. Joseph White, Ph.D., Wilbur K. Pierpont Collegiate Professor of Leadership
in Management Education, professor of business administration, and former dean of the
Stephen M. Ross School of Business, will retire from active faculty status on January
31, 2005.
A native of Michigan, Professor White received his B.S. degree from
Georgetown University in 1969, his M.B.A. degree from Harvard University in 1971,
and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan in 1975. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty as a lecturer in 1973 and was promoted to assistant
professor in 1975 and associate professor in 1978. In 1981, he took a leave of absence
to join Cummins Engine Company, Inc., where he served as vice president for
management development and vice president for personnel and public affairs. He


233




January Meeting, 2005


returned to the University in 1987 as professor and associate dean. He was appointed
interim dean in 1990 and dean in 1991 and served as dean until 2001. Professor White
was appointed the Wilbur K. Pierpont Collegiate Professor of Leadership in
Management Education in 1999, and he served as interim president of the University of
Michigan in 2002.
Under Professor White's leadership, the school engaged in a challenging period
of self-examination that involved faculty, students and administrators. The resulting
curricular revision and innovation catapulted the school into the top tier of competition.
Professor White devoted considerable energy and resources to building and maintaining
a stellar faculty across all disciplines by sustaining those who had already achieved
prominence and developing those who had languished. As a result the faculty became
one of the strongest in its history and is nationally recognized on multiple fronts.
Professor White also focused on making Michigan the school of choice for minority
M.B.A. students and fostered a strong and supportive environment for female students
by supporting such programs as the Women's Initiative, which annually brings in top
professional women for focused workshops and seminars. The doctoral program was
also thoroughly re-examined and revamped.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming B. Joseph White dean
emeritus of the Stephen M. Ross School of Business Administration and professor
emeritus of business administration.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported this month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by
Regent Newman, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
The Regents then turned to consideration of the regular agenda.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Lime Rock Partners III, L.P.)
Executive Vice President Slottow informed the Regents that a follow-on investment
of $20.0 million had been made to Lime Rock Partners III, L.P.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Kleiner Perkins Caufield and Byers XI, L.P.)
Executive Vice President Slottow informed the Regents that a follow-on investment
of $5.0 million had been made to Kleiner Perkins Caufield and Byers XI, L.P.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Greenfield Acquisition Partners IV, L.P., and BPG
Investment Partnership VII, L.P.)
Executive Vice President Slottow informed the Regents that follow-on investments
had been made to two real estate funds: Greenfield Acquisition Partners IV, L.P. ($40
million) and BPG Investment Partnership VII, L.P. ($20.0 million).
Alternative Asset Commitment (Thor Urban Property Fund)
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved a commitment of $20 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Thor Urban Property Fund, L.P.


234




January Meeting, 2005


Alternative Asset Commitment (Lime Rock Partners II, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved an additional investment of $1.8 million from the Long Term
Portfolio to purchase a secondary interest in Lime Rock Partners II, L.P.
Ann Street Parking Structure
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the Ann Street Parking Structure Project for bids and
awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
C.C. Little Building
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the C.C. Little Building First Floor Teaching Laboratories
Renovation Project as described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing
the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the
approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Cardiovascular
Center Project - Phase I Bed Shell Expansion Project
Executive Vice President Kelch commented that the shell space provides an
opportunity for the UMHHC to meet a demonstrated need for space in order to fully
utilize the current approved number of licensed beds. The project would require a
two-month extension of the Cardiovascular Center Project's construction schedule and is
included in the ten-year capital plan for the UMHHC. On a motion by Regent Brandon,
seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved the UMHHC
Cardiovascular Center Project - Phase I Bed Shell Expansion Project as described and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that
bids are within the approved budget.
Conflict of Interest Items
Regent Deitch joined the meeting by conference telephone call.
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes 5 conflict of interest items,
each of which requires 6 votes for approval. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded
by Regent Richner, the Regents unanimously approved each of the following items:
Approval of a Payment to Beech Stave Press, Inc.
The Regents approved a payment to Beech Stave Press, Inc., to provide copies of "A
Dictionary of the Lycian Language." Because Benjamin Fortson, IV, vice president and
editor-in-chief of Beech Stave Press, Inc., is also a University of Michigan employee, this
purchase falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library and Beech Stave Press, Inc.
2.   The product to be provided is dictionaries at a cost of $59.90.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Benjamin Fortson, IV, a University of
Michigan employee, is vice president and editor-in-chief of Beech Stave Press, Inc..


235




January Meeting, 2005


Research Agreements between the University of Michigan and Ascenta, Inc.
The Regents approved research agreements with Ascenta, Inc., for further
development of small molecule inhibitors for use against various cancers. Because Drs.
Marc Lippman, Shaomeng Wang, and Dajun Wang have an equity interest in Ascenta,
Inc., and are also University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Ascenta,
Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreements conform to University policy. Dr. Liang Xu, who is an
inventor of technology licensed to Ascenta but has no direct financial interest in the
company, will direct one of the projects over an initial one-year period at an estimated
cost of $56,000. The other project will be directed by Thomas Carey over an initial
one-year period at an estimated cost of $72,111.
The contracts include a provision allowing extension and modification of the projects
upon mutual agreement of the parties. University of Michigan procedures for approval
of these changes will be followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest
Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Drs. Marc Lippman, Shaomeng Wang,
and Dajun Yang, University of Michigan employees, hold an equity interest in
Ascenta, Inc.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Accuri Instruments
The Regents approved a license agreement with Accuri Instruments for the
"Air-liquid two-phase microfluidic system" (UM File No. 2135). Because Dr. Steven
Skerlos holds an equity interest in Accuri Instruments and is also a University of
Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Accuri
Instruments, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement include giving Accuri Instruments an exclusive license
with the right to grant sublicenses. Accuri Instruments will pay a royalty on sales and
will reimburse patent costs. The University will retain ownership of the licensed
technology and may continue to further develop it and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of
warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of
the parties.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Steven Skerlos, a University of
Michigan employee, has an equity interest in Accuri Instruments. He has waived any
personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the University.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Powerix
Technologies, LLC
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with Powerix Technologies, LLC, to
fund a project in the College of Engineering. Because Drs. Jun Ni and Werner Dahm are
shareholders in and sit on the board of directors of Powerix Technologies, LLC, and are
also University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:


236




January Meeting, 2005


1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Powerix
Technologies, LLC.
2.   The subcontract to the University will be $600,000 for the period of September 1,
2004 through August 31, 2006. Since research agreements are often amended, the
agreement includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope. University
procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and additional review by
the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate. The subcontract terms
are consistent with University policies and Regental bylaws.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Drs. Jun Ni and Werner Dahm,
University of Michigan employees, are shareholders in and sit on the board of
directors of Powerix Technologies, LLC.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Molecular
Therapeutics
The Regents approved a license agreement with Molecular Therapeutics for use of a
software program known as "Miami Fuse" (OTT File No. 1297). Because Drs. Brian
Ross and Alnawaz Rehemtulla, owners of Molecular Therapeutics, are also University of
Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to this agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Molecular Therapeutics.
2.   The contract terms include an up-front license issue fee and a percentage of sublicense
revenues. The University will retain ownership of the licensed software technology
and may continue to further develop it and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of
warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of
the parties.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Drs. Brian Ross and Alnawaz
Rehemtulla, University of Michigan employees, are owners of Molecular
Therapeutics.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Jim Mogensen, citizen, on the town-gown
relationship.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:25 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for February 17, 2005.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


237




January Meeting,20


238




FEBRUARY MEETING, 2005


The University oftMichigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, February 17, 2005
Panel Discussion
Prior to the start of the Regents' Meeting, the Regents attended a panel discussion on
the University of Michigan's "ADVANCE" project, funded by the National Science
Foundation, whose purpose is to reduce the gender gap among faculty in science and
engineering disciplines.  Participants included Professors Abigail Stewart, Pamela
Raymond, Melvin Hochster, and Anthony England and Dean Terrence McDonald.
Regents' Meeting
The Regents convened at 3:00 p.m. in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies Building, Assembly Hall. Present were President Coleman and Regents Deitch,
Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner, Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost
Courant, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President Kelch, Vice President Krislov,
Chancellor Little, Vice President May, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers,
Executive Vice President Slottow, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Regent Brandon was absent.
Call to Order
President Coleman called the meeting to order. She commented on the recent death
of playwright and alumnus Arthur Miller and noted that he had returned to campus many
times and had been honored on Broadway in 2004. She distributed a special edition of the
Michigan Daily devoted to Arthur Miller. She commented that the forthcoming Arthur
Miller Theatre will serve as a lasting memorial and tribute to Arthur Miller and said, "We
will remember him as a great icon, a monumental talent, and a man of conscience. And
we will remember him as a student who came to the University of Michigan not with
privilege, but with promise, and with an unshakable belief that he could make a
difference. And he did."
State Budget Situation. President Coleman reported that the governor had
recently proposed a mid-year cut of nearly 2% for public universities that would
continue for fiscal year 2006. This would be in addition to the 12% cut in base funding
that has been made over the past two years. If enacted, the proposed additional cuts
could mean that the University's General Fund will have been reduced by more than
$50 million for the three campuses combined.
President Coleman stated that the University does not believe it would be fair to
students and their families to institute a mid-year tuition increase should the governor's
proposed mid-year cut be enacted, and thus a mid-year tuition increase will not be
recommended no matter what happens. President Coleman reiterated her statement of
last year, that the University would not be able to sustain a continual decline in state
support in combination with artificially restrained tuition increases if quality is to be


239




February lMeeting 2005


maintained and "if the University of Michigan is to remain the University of Michigan."
She stated that the University would not compromise academic excellence and that the
guiding principle in developing the FY 2006 budget would be maintaining the
University's quality. She continued that charting the course of the University goes
beyond reacting to a year-to-year state funding cycle. The governor's proposal for the
FY 2006 budget is a starting point for continued debate, she noted, and policy-makers
will be strongly encouraged to reconsider the state's investment in higher education.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. President Coleman announced that
due to extenuating circumstances, the Finance, Audit and Investment Committee had not
met.
Compensation and Personnel Committee. Regent Maynard noted that this
committee had held informal discussions with President Coleman regarding her goals
for the 2004-05 academic year and with Provost Courant regarding the status of
ongoing dean searches.
Annual Report on Research
Vice President Ulaby presented the Annual Report on Research and Scholarship for
2004 and reported that research expenditures that year were $752 million, which is a
0.42% increase from the previous year. Reviewing research expenditures over the last five
years, he noted that the flattening of the rate of increase corresponds to a decrease in the
level of available federal funding, which grew only grew by 1.6% in 2004, and funding
from industry, which dropped 16.6%. University funding grew only by 1.6%. Vice
President Ulaby explained anomalies in research expenditures by the five units with the
largest research expenditures over the past three years.
Vice President Ulaby noted that in 2004, research expenditures in the Medical
School, the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and School of Public Health
had experienced increases, whereas expenditures in the College of Engineering had
decreased. For 2005, he expects total research expenditures to reach about $800
million, an increase of 6.9%. Indirect costs are projected to increase by about 7.3%.
He reported that the federal research funding outlook for 2006 is not very positive
since the total federal research and development request in the president's budget
proposal is up overall only by 0.6%, and for the agencies most important to the
University of Michigan (NIH, NSF, DoD) is only modestly increased (NIH, NSF) or
substantially decreased (Department of Defense). Consequently, there will be greater
competition among academic institutions for federal funding, and there will be a greater
tendency to encourage members of Congress to fund projects through earmarks rather
than through a competitive, peer review process.
Vice President Ulaby observed that one way to maximize the University's share of
federal research expenditures is to obtain more grants for large centers from such
agencies as NIH and NSF. He noted that discussions are underway with state officials
about how to enhance the University's competitiveness in obtaining these large grants.
Internally, strategic plans need to be put into place to help determine the areas in which
the University should emphasize its research investments.


240




February Meeting, 2005


Vice President Ulaby reviewed the research accomplishments of members in a
variety of disciplines. He also described the "eResearch" project, which provides an
electronic means of managing and tracking research activities. The first component of
this project is a system for ensuring compliance with all of the rules and regulations for
research involving the use of human subjects. The eResearch Project, funded jointly by
the Office of the Provost and the Office of Vice President for Research, will be fully
operational by May 2005.
He also described Ann Arbor Tech Central, a public-private partnership organized
as a non-profit organization aimed at accelerating technology-based economic
development in Ann Arbor and the surrounding areas. The goals are to have the Ann
Arbor area become known as a national hub for technology development, to double the
number of technology companies in the area, to triple the number of technology jobs in
the area, to become a "hot spot" for technology events, and to become one of the
nation's best regions for business creation and acceleration.
Vice President Ulaby concluded by explaining the challenges posed by the greatly
expanded use of export control regulations in federally funded projects since the events
of 9/11. These carry restrictions on the publication of research findings and on the
participation of foreign nationals in research projects that involve information, physical
items, or computer programs pertaining to a wide array of items that are on the U.S.
Munitions List or the Commerce Control List. These export controls have impacted
every major campus across the country, as they prohibit exposure of foreign students to
a number of common research-related items, such as GPS devices or computers with
advanced processors.  Another requirement of the export control restrictions is
pre-approval of publications, which generally contradicts University policy, and
segregating students into categories based on national origin. Those from certain
countries require either a lengthy process to become licensed, or are unlikely to be
granted a license to participate in federal research projects. Academic institutions have
joined together to work with U.S. government officials on this issue that is of very
serious concern to all universities.
In conclusion, Vice President Ulaby predicted that although research spending for
FY 2005 looks bright, the University must develop a plan to ensure that it remains
competitive in the years ahead. He also noted that research restrictions imposed by
federal regulations will likely challenge the core values of academic institutions and test
the resolve of their administrations.
Following some discussion, the Regents then turned to consideration of the regular
agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Krislov, acting as vice president and secretary of the
University, submitted for approval the minutes of the meeting of January 26, 2005.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report, the
Plant Extension Report, and the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.


241




February Meeting, 2005


Research Report.     Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of projects
established, January 31, 2005.
University of Michigan Health System. No additional report was submitted.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper called attention to the action
request for infrastructure upgrades for the William Monroe Trotter House. She noted
that this project will restore a facility that is loved and well-used by students and
thanked everyone involved in bringing the project to fruition.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little had no additional report.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas noted that the Flint Journal
had reported on a project involving the campus's School of Education and Human
Services and the city's Westwood Heights School District whose goal is to improve
conditions at the school district while providing a laboratory for students in both the
education and social work components of the School of Education and Human Services.
Michigan Student Assembly Report.         Jason Mironov, president of MSA,
introduced Anita Leung, vice president of MSA. Ms. Leung informed the Regents that
MSA would be seeking a fee increase of $1.00 per student per semester to provide
increased funding for student organizations. She gave a video presentation in which
members of student organizations explained why they were in favor of the proposed fee
increase.
The Regents requested a comparison of comparable student organization funding
models at other Big Ten institutions.
Voluntary Support. Vice President May submitted the Report of Voluntary
Support for January 2005.
Accenture Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts............................................. $48,600
Kedrick D. Adkins, Bloomfield Hills
for scholarships in the College of Engineering and
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship at the University of Michigan.................. 11,000
Alcoa Corporate Center, New Kensington, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Engineering...................................... 50,000
Susan J. Allen, Grand Rapids
for the building fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.................... 45,616
Edwin D. Allmendinger Trust
for support at the University of Michigan................................72,683
Robert I. Alpern, Bloomfield Hills
4,000 shares of Commercial Federal Corporation common stock
for the Marge and Robert Alpern Fund in the Medical School...................... 106,260
Alro Steel Corporation, Jackson
for support in the Department of Athletics.................................... 100,000
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School........................................ 50,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School........................................... 100,154
Anonymous Donor
for a Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the Museum of Art........... 2,000,000
Anonymous Donor
3,060 shares of Abbott Laboratories common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
in the Life Sciences Institute.......................................... 133,982
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Department of Athletics.................................... 50,000


242




February Meeting, 2005


Anonymous Donor
for the building fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.................... 10,000
Anonymous Family Foundation
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 90,000
Arbitron, Inc., Columbia, Maryland
for scholarships in the Institute for Social Research................................. 24,000
A. R. M. Enterprises, Farmington Hills
for support in  the University  Hospitals........................................... 10,000
Aronoff Foundation, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................25,000
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research  in  the  M edical School..............................................20,000
Roy Ash, Los Angeles, California
for the building fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy....................10,000
ASN, Washington, D. C.
for research  in  the  M edical School..............................................50,000
Richard A. Auhll, Aspen, Colorado
for the Richard A. Auhll Professorship in the College of Engineering..................100,000
Auto Club Group, Dearborn
for support in the Transportation Research Institute................................  10,000
Menakka Bailey, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Center for the Education of Women and
for support for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 25,100
Benedek Family Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Peter and Barbara Benedek Artist in Residence Fund and
the Barbara and Peter Benedek Dean's Merit Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 37,500
Betty Z. Benedict, Westwood, New Jersey
for research  in  the  M edical School..............................................10,000
Kenneth Bettsteller, Oak Park, California
for the K. and K. Bettsteller Endowment Study Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 30,000
Betz Industries, Grand Rapids
for the Betz Family Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics and
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  52,000
Bruce P. Bickner, Sycamore, Illinois
for support in the Department of Kinesiology..................................... 50,000
Leland F. Blatt Family Foundation, Harper Woods
for the Blatt Family Fund in the Medical School................................... 60,000
Bogaard Charitable Fund of the Ayco Charitable Foundation, Clifton Park, New York
for the William J. and Claire W. Bogaard Fund in the Law School..................... 60,000
Edward L. Bove, Ann Arbor
for the Helen and Marvin M. Kirsh Professorship in the Medical School................ 15,000
Robert S. Bradley, Cincinnati, Ohio
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 10,000
Hubert J. Brandt, Long Beach, New York
for the Frances and Hubert Brandt Israel Fellowship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 20,000
Kathryn W. Brandt, Scarsdale, New York
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.........10,250
Irene Bronner, Frankenmuth
for the Men's Glee Club Tour Endowment Fund in the School of Music................10,000
Kenneth A. Buckfire, New York, New York
for the Trunsky/Buckfire Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Medical School..............25,000
Richard R. Burns, Duluth, Minnesota
785 shares of New Corp, Ltd., common stock
for support in the Deparment of Athletics and the Law School.....................29,759
Clare B. Callahan, Northfield, Illinois
535 shares of PepsiCo, Inc., common stock
for the Clare and Michael Callahan Dean's Discretionar Fund in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business....................................... 24,878
Herman B. Cass Trust
for support in the Law School.............................................. 256,990
ChevronTexaco, Concord, California
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
Transportation Researc'h Institute............................................. 21,600
Cleveland A. Christophe, Stamford, Connecticut
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............................. 10,000


243




F ebruary Meeting,200


Richard M. Cieri, Shaker Heights, Ohio
for support in the Law School and, the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 10,000
William F. Close Trust
for support in the Medical School............................................ 50,000
James F. Conrad, Nashville, Tennessee
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medic~al School..................... 20,000
Jane Wilson Coon Trust
for the William W. Coon, M.D. Fund in. the Medical Sc~hool......................... 10000
Lewis Hugh Cooper, Ann Arbor
for the Hugh and Nan Cooper Scholarship and other scholarships in the School of Music... 25,850
Carolyn L. Crosby, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Louis and Margaret Crosby Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan....... 15,000
Rebec~ca E. Crown, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Glenn M. Knudsvig Memorial Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts in memory of Dr. Glenn M. Knud~svig....10,000
Laura J. Currie, Midland
for the Gilber Currie Endowment Fund and
other support in. the Delpartment of Athletics....................................15,100
DaimlerChrysler Coiporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn and
for employee matching gifts................................................ 31,400
Marvin. and Betty Danto Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
-for the Marvin and Betty Danto Expendable Researc~h Fund in. the Medical. School........1.0,000
Denso International America, Inc., Southfield
for support in the Transportation Research Institute and
for employee matching gifts................................................ 15,050
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program., Inc., Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering...................................... 94,800
D. H. R. Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the building ftmd in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy................... 25,000
Doan Family Foundation, Midland
for the Ruth. Dow Doan Endowed Professorship & Direc~torship in. the Medical. School....1.4,750
Thelma Dollar Estate
for support in the Law School............................................... 52,991
Herbert H. and, Grace A. Dow Foundation, Midland.
for the Ruth Dow Doan Endowed Professorship & Directorship in the Medical School....15,630
DTE Energy Foundation., Detroit
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn and
for employee matching gifts................................................ 23,405
Gayle E. Ellias, White Lake
for research in Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 10,000
Farrehi Family Foundation, Inc., Grand Blanc
for the Cyrus and Jane Farrehi Professorship in the Medical School................... 12,000
Z. Jane and Cyrus Farrehi Trust
for the Cyrus and Jane Farrehi Professorship in the Medical School.................. 200,000
Janette Ferrantino, Ann. Arbor
1,714 shares of Wells Farg~o & Company common stoc'k
for the Janette Ferrantino Investigator Fund in the Medical School................... 100,715
Flint Ink Corporation, Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering...................................... 50,000
Food Allergy Initiative, New York, New York
for support in the Medical School............................................ 28,800
Ford Foundation, Newv York, Newv York
for research in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 192,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn.
frthe, University ofMrIchIgan-Deabor..........................4000


244




February Meeting, 2005


Ruth Galloway Trust
for research in the Medical School in memory of Joyce Fickes VanVoorhis..............77,094
E. James Gamble, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Schools of Music and Law,
for the University Library, and
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 11,900
Arthur R. Gaudi, Santa Barbara, California
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 10,000
General Dynamics Land Systems, Lima, Ohio
for the General Dynamics Endowment Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn...... 30,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for scholarships in the College of Engineering and
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................ 50,000
Gentex Corporation, Zeeland
for support in the Transportation Research Institute................................  15,000
Al Glick, Jackson
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 50,000
Grant K. Goodman Fund, Lawrence, Kansas
for the Grant K. Goodman Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.........10,000
James F. Goodrich, Washington, D. C.
1,465 shares various corporate common stock
for the James F. Goodrich Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Engineering.............................................100,263
Goodrich Foundation, Inc., Cornwall, Connecticut
for support in  the  University  Libraiy............................................  15,000
Graham Foundation, York, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Engineering and the Department of Athletics and
for other support at the University of Michigan................................. 1,000,000
John F. Greene, Silverthome, Colorado
1,000 shares of Burlington Resources, Inc., common stock
for the Graduate Fellowship Endowment Fund in Geological Sciences in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 55,615
William C. Greer, Livingston, New Jersey
for the Curtis W. Greer Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..............10,000
Milton and Miriam Handler Foundation, New York, New York
for the Handler Foundation Research Fund in the Law School........................20,000
Mark W. B. Harms, London, England
for the Mark Harms Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............20,000
William K. Hawes, Jr., Houston, Texas
for the William K. Hawes Family Scholarship Fund in the School of Music..............10,000
Hermelin Family Support Foundation of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment Fund in
the  University  Library........................................................ 13,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for support in the  School of Public Health........................................50,000
Holcim (US), Inc., Dundee
for the Holcim Professorship Funds in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
the School of Natural Resources and Environment................................ 500,000
Robert L. Hooker, Jupiter, Florida
for the Hooker, Cook, and DeVos Endowment Fund in
the Gerald R. Ford  School of Public Policy....................................... 10,000
Timothy A. Howes, Los Altos, California
4,000 shares of Opsware, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  24,380
John K. Hoyns, New York, New York
for support in  the  Law  School.................................................  12,500
InfoGation Coiporation, San Diego, California
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn...............................1l0,000
Phyllis Berical Johnson Trust
for the Jeffrey Lee Johnson Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Scienc~e, and the Arts.................................. 25,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health.................................... 409,941l
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy and
for the Schools of Natural Resourc'es and Environment and Social Work.............. 296,647


245




F ebruary Meeting,200


J. P. Morgan Chase Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and.
the College of Literature, Scienc~e, and the Arts..................................1.0,875
Ric~hard Katcher, Cleveland, Ohio
for sup port in the Depaatment of Athletics and the Law School and
for the Univ~ersity Library................................................... 13,925
Kaydon, Ann Arbor
for supp ort in the Department of Athletics...................................... 65,000
W. M. Keck Foundation, Los Angeles
for research in the College of Engineering and the School of Public Health............. 750000
Thomas Kelleher, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School............................................ 10000
W. K. Kellog~g Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the Sc~hool of Education, for WUOM and
for employee matching gifts............................................... 331,000
Kirkland and Ellis Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for Frauman Family Dean's Merit Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for empiloyee matching gifts................................................ 30,650
Deborah L. Kirshman, Berkley, California
for the Kirshman Family Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................1.0,000
Harr and Anna Korman Foundation, Boca Raton, Florida
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center in memory of Harry Korman and
in honor of Dr. David Wood................................................ 10000
Krupman Family Foundation, Inc., Purchase, New York
for the Jackson Lewis Fund in the Law School..................................10,331.
Ronald E. Larson, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the College of Engineering................................... 10,000
Paul L. Lee,, New York,, New York
for support in the Law School............................................... 10,000
Norman M. Leff Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 1,503,463
Selig D. Lesnoy Estate
for the Selig D. Lesnoy Endow ment Fund. at the Univ~ersity of Michigan.............. 377,469
Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................ 11 250
Eli Lilly and Comp any, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Lilly Clinical Research Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............. 100,000
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indiana -polis,' Indiana
for support in the Medical School, and the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in
the College of Engineering, and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............... 45,000
Jeffrey Liss, Washington, D. C.
for support in the Law School and the Life Sciences Institute and
for the Harold K. Jacobson Graduate Student Support Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 30,000
Diana M. Lopo, New York, New York
for support in the Law School............................................... 10,000
Ann and. Rober H. Lurie Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the SSEL Construction Fund in the College of Engineering.................... 2,500,000
Kenneth S. Mack, Metam~ora
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarship in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business....... 15,105
Sylvia Majkowski, Redford
400 shares of Anheuser-Busch Company, Inc., common stock
for the Ted Majkowski Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan................ 21,002
Clayton K. Mammel, Denver, Colorado
frthe1'IClayton andrJeann MmelEdoe ShlasipFndi teMeialShol.10,0


246




F ebruary Meeting,200


Loretta Matthew s Memorial Fund., Riverview
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................ 16,000
Olivia P. Maynard, Goodric~h
20,100 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock
for the Olivia P. Maynard Charitable Remainder Unitnist Fund for the ultimate benefit
the Olivia P. Maynard Professorship Fund in the Sc'hool of Social Work............. 1,998,744
McKinley Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endow ed Professorship and other support in.
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business....................................... 11,642
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
6,000 shares of Gillette Company common
stock for support in the Medical School....................................... 218,760
D. Stuar Meiklejohn, Grand Blanc
for the University of Michigan-Flint.......................................... 10,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation,, New York,, New York
for research in the School of Information....................................... 71,000
Mentor Graphics Corporation, Wilsonville, Oregon
for researc'h in the College of Engierig...................................... 25,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for support in the College of Engineering...................................... 10,000
Minerva Education and Development Foundation, Detroit
for support in the School. of Social. Work....................................... 20,000
Ada M. Mitchell Estate
for support in the College of Engineering..................................... 500,000
John C. Morley, Clev~eland Heights, Ohio
for the Matthew J. Jr., and Sarah Patterson Spence Fund in the College of Engineering....25,000
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
for the Clements Library and
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens........................................... 10000
Multiple Sclerosis Foundation, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, Florida
for support in the Medical School............................................ 10,000
Mar C. Murphy, Calumet
for the Mary C. Murphy Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the Percy J. Murphy, M. D., and Mar C. Murphy, R.N., Professorship of Pediatrics in
the Medical School....................................................... 18,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for researc'h in the Medical School............................................ 17, 177
MZM Production, Inc.,. Miami Lakes, Florida
for the Jim and Bonnie Mandich Scholarship Fund. in the Department of Athletic's........ 10,000
Stuar C. Nathan, Chicago, Illinois
600 shares of Amgen, Inc., common stock
for the JoAnn. and Stuart C. Nathan CEMP Student Support Fund in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
the School of Natural Resources and Environment................................36,822
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for researc'h in the Medical School............................................ 30,938
Homer A. Neal, Ann. Arbor
for the Homer A. and Donna J. Neal Endowment Fund at the University of Michigan....10,000
Robert D. Neary, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Rober D. and Janet E. Near Funds in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 90,000
Herbert E. Neil, Jr., Deerfield, Illinois
for support in the School of Education, the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies,, and for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 26,000
Nichia America Corporation, Mountville, Pennsylvania
for supp ort in the Transportation Research. Institute............................... 15,000
John _F. NiKoll*Living-TrustILosAng elesCaIfornia


247




February Meeting, 2005


Donald E. Pollard, Rye, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 10,000
Diana Mendley Rauner, Winnetka, Illinois
for support at University of Michigan........................................ 10,000
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................ 110,000
John Rich, Beverly Hills, California
for the John Rich Dean's Merit Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 75,000
Jessie Ridley Foundation, Inc., Chappaqua, New York
for scholarships at the University of Michigan.................................... 10,000
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Trust
for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarship Funds in
the College of Pharmacy and the School of Dentistry............................. 13,251
Roy H. Roberts Charitable Lead Unitrust, Naples, Florida
for the Dr. Roy and Mrs. Natalie Roberts Trust Fund for Dentistry in
the School of Dentistry................................................ 178,281
Richard Rogel Trust
for the Geraldine Ford Memorial Scholarship Fund and
the Rogel Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan......................... 788,850
Joseph and Rose Rontal Foundation, Farmington Hills
for the Eugene Rontal Family Resident Education Fund and
the Michael Rontal Family Anatomy Course in the Medical School and
for the Eugene and Ellen Rontal Pre-College Mentoring Fund at
the University of Michigan.............................................. 40,000
Prudence L. Rosenthal, Ann Arbor
110 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock
for support in the School of Music,
for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, and
for the University Musical Society............................................ 10,950
Marion Ryan, Flint
for the Thomas P. Ryan Memorial Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint and
for the Michigan League Development Fund................................... 20,100
Barry E. Safir, West Bloomfield
430 shares of Hewlett-Packard Company common stock
for Camp Michigania..................................................... 10,567
John W. Sanguinetti, Los Altos Hills, California
600 shares of Synopsys, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for support in the College of Engineering and
for the Elbel Club Marching Band Fund in the School of Music..................... 22,447
Margaret J. Sarvis Trust
for support at the University of Michigan.................................... 299,167
Patricia C. Schemm Charitable Unitrust
for the Ferdinand Ripley Schemm Fund in the Medical School....................... 50,671
Shirley K. Schlafer Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................ 40,000
Richard F. Scott, Ann Arbor
for the James R. Hayward Professorship in the School of Dentistry.................... 10,000
Searle Family Trust
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment...................... 25,000
Seiger Family Foundation, Los Altos Hills, California
for the Joseph and Randee Seiger Scholarship in the Law School...................... 10,000
Seinfeld Family Foundation, Bellmore, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 10,000
Seremet Family Foundation, Potomac, Maryland
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............................. 12,500
Frederic C. Sherriff, Kenilworth, Illinois
for the May L. Lafever Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering................ 15,000
Ching ju Wang Sheu, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the College of Pharmacy....................................... 30,000
Mary S. Sigourney Award Trust
for research in the Medical School......................................... 35,000
Celia L. Sinclair, Cleveland Heights, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.... 15,000
Willard E. Smucker Foundation, Orrville, Ohio
for support in the School of Art and Design...................................... 15,000
Speckhard-Knight Charitable Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Speckhard-Knight Fund in the Medical School............................. 30,000


248




February Meeting, 2005


Michael B. Staebler, Detroit
for the building fund and the Neal Staebler Political Education Fund in
the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy and
for support in  the  Law  School.................................................  10,600
Statprobe, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Richard G. Cornell Scholarship Fund in the School of Public Health and
for employee  m atching  gifts...................................................  10,600
Steelcase Foundation, Grand Rapids
for employee  matching  gifts...................................................  10,750
Marc H. Steglitz, New Vernon, New Jersey
200 shares of Altria Group, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Art and Design....................................... 10,802
Clinton F. Stimpson, iii, Fort Gratiot
for support in the College of Engineering and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 15,000
Dean C. Storkan, Hollister, California
for the Dean C. Storkan Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Law School.................12,000
Julie C. Stroh, Coral Gables, Florida
for the Julie Childress Stroh Endowment Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 10,000
King C. Stutzman, Wilmette, Illinois
for the King and Frances Stutzman Endowed Scholarship Fund
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Artchitecture and Urban Planning...................10,000
John W. Sweetland Trust
for the Gayle Morris Sweetland Writing Center in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 25,000
Nancy A. Symons, Elyria, Ohio
120 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock
for the Dan Baker Symons Scholarship Fund and
for other support at the University  of Michigan.................................... 11,776
A. Alfred Taubman Restated Revocable Trust
for the Alfred Taubman Scholarship at the University of Michigan..................... 57,298
Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, New York, New York
for scholarships in the Center for the Education of Women and
for other support in the Medical School and the School of Music...................... 17,000
Arn H. Tellem, Los Angeles, California
for the Arn Tellem Faculty Research Support Fund in the Law School.................. 30,000
Temple Israel, West Bloomfield
for the Cynthia G. Fenley Memorial Fund in the Medical School...................... 25,000
W. Bruce Thomas, Sewickely, Pennsylvania
for the W. Bruce Thomas Law Library Endowment Fund in the Law School..............25,000
Toyota Motor Corporation, Aichi, Japan
for research  in the College  of Engineering........................................ 50,000
Bruce R. Trefz, Gastonia, North Carolina
for the Bruce R. and Linda S. Trefz Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the  School of Dentistry....................................................... 25,000
Carlton E. Tripp, Sr., Trust
for the Carlton E. and Frances E. Tripp Memorial Scholarship in
the  College  of Engineering................................................... 223,639
Jeremiah G. Turcotte, Ann Arbor
8,543 units of Janus mutual fund
for the Jeremiah and Claire Turcotte Professorship in Transplantation in
the  M edical  School......................................................... 200,000
Unilever United States Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
for employee  matching  gifts...................................................  10,350
United Jewvish Foundation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............92,945
Jay and Betty Van Andel Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the building fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy...................200,000
James A. vanSweden, Washington, D. C.
for the Johanna and Anthony vanSweden Scholarship Fund in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment................................ 10,000
Timothy Wadhams Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.... 25,000
Gar T. Walther Trust
for the Class of 1963 Scholarship Fund in the Step hen M. Ross School of Business....... 10,000


249




February Meeting, 2005


James E. Wasco, Boxford, Massachusetts
for support in the Department of Athletics, the Medical School, and the School of Music... 10,000
Marc N. Waterman, San Diego, California
for the Beverly J. Waterman Scholarship for Hearing Impaired
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 30,000
Roy E. and Carol W. Weber Charitable Lead Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Roy E. Weber General Thoracic Surgery Research Fund in the Medical School.... 25,000
Edith Z. Weinberg, Harrison, New York
for the Edith Zickerman Weinberg Scholarship Fund in the School of Music............ 25,000
Marshall M. Weinberg, New York, New York
Six shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., common stock
for the Marshall Weinberg Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Institute for Social Research, the School of Natural Resources and Environment, and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 515,790
Henry E. and Consuelo S. Wenger, Pound Ridge, New York
for the Architecture Alumni Scholarship Fund in t
he A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning................... 10,000
Jean Whitehead, Chicago, Illinois
473 shares of Anthem, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Jean Whitehead Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Law  School............................................................51,045
Betty J. Williams Trust
for the R. Jamison and Betty Williams Professorship in the College of Engineering and
for the R. Jamison and Betty Williams Professorship in the Medical School........... 1,109,213
H. W. Wilson Foundation, Inc., Bronx, New York
for scholarships in the School of Information..................................... 10,000
Winthrop, Inc., Hampton, New Hampshire
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 50,000
Jean Y. Woodhead Estate
for the Jean Yokes Woodhead Endowment Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 500,000
Elizabeth Wright Charitable Remainder Unitrust, Farmington Hills
for the Elizabeth Benson Wright Scholarship Fund
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 10,000
Marian E. Wright, Flint
616 units of Templeton World Fund mutual fund
for the University of Michigan-Flint, and for WFUM............................... 10,292
Frederick and Katherine Yaffe Foundation, Southfield
for the Yaffe Collaborative Center in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.......... 54,000
Zell Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Helen Herzog Zell Professorship in Fiction Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 400,000
Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:


Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
Ainar D. Aijala, Jr., New York, New York
Richard R. Allen, Greensboro, North Carolina
American Plastic Toys, Inc., Walled Lake
Christine M. Anderson Estate
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann
Arbor
Anonymous Family Foundation
Aquinas College Art & Music Department, Grand
Rapids
Aventis Pharmaceuticals Products, Inc.,
Bridgewater, New Jersey
Ann Edmunds Avery, Grand Rapids
Thomas O. Ballard Trust
Bank one Foundation, Flint
Nancy M. Bender, Ann Arbor
Elizabeth D. Black Fund of the Community
Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit


James B. Blanchard, Traverse City
Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Michigan, Detroit
William R. Brunger, Madison, Connecticut
Richard J. Burstein, Bloomfield Hills
Stephanie J. Buttrey, Ann Arbor
Calvin College, Grand Rapids
Brian P. Campbell, Ann Arbor
Cap Gemini Ernst & Young U. S., LLC, Dallas,
Texas
John Castle, Worcester, Massachusetts
Jerome V. Ciullo, Bloomfield Hills
Clan Crawford, Jr., Trust
Concert for the Cure, Brookline, Massachusetts
Thomas M. Cooley Law School, Lansing
David M. Courtis, Bellingham, Washington
Douglas D. Crary, Ann Arbor
Dan L. Curtis, Las Vegas, Nevada
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio


250




February Meeting, 2005


Marvin H. Davidson Foundation, Inc., New York,
New York
Kathleen M. Diehl, Ann Arbor
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
M. Douglas Dunn, New Vernon, New Jersey
Theodore Eckert Foundation, Niles, Illinois
Donald D. Finlayson, Brimley
Arnold Fisher, West Bloomfield
Peter G. Fitzgerald, McLean, Virginia
Steven M. Freeman, Chicago, Illinois
Stuart D. Freedman, New York, New York
Leonard D. Frescoln, Northville
Larry J. Gerbens, Grand Rapids
Joanne R. Gerhart, Ann Arbor
Dudley J. Godfrey, Jr. Trust
Edward Goldstein, Fullerton, California
Tamas I. Gombosi, Ann Arbor
Anne D. Green, Los Altos, California
Mark W. Griffin, Ann Arbor
Vicki and Michael Gross Family Foundation, New
York, New York
Sheldon and Eva Hamburger Philanthropic Fund,
Bloomfield Hills
Jerry F. Hanlon, Ann Arbor
James H. Harger, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Stanley G. Harris, Lincolnwood, Illinois
Glen D. Heggie, Kalamazoo
David W. Heleniak, New York, New York
Keith S. and Marcelle Henley Foundation, Ann
Arbor
Hewlett Packard Financial Services Center,
Colorado Springs, Colorado
Hewlett Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
Marsha E. Holmes, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
James D. Holzhauer, Chicago, Illinois
James S. House and Wendy Fisher House, Boston,
Massachusetts
Hudson-Webber Foundation, Detroit
Hughes Electronics Corporation, El Segundo,
California
Kenneth A. Jamerson, West Bloomfield
Peter T. Joseph Foundation, New York, New York
Max Kade Foundation, New York, New York
Steven R. Kalt, Bloomfield Hills
Robert P. Kelch, Ann Arbor
KeyBank National Association, Toledo, Ohio
Knight Foundation Fund, Detroit
Thomas M. Cooley Law School, Lansing
David M. Courtis, Bellingham, Washington
Douglas D. Crary, Ann Arbor
Dan L. Curtis, Las Vegas, Nevada
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
Marvin H. Davidson Foundation, Inc., New York,
New York
Kathleen M. Diehl, Ann Arbor
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
M. Douglas Dunn, New Vernon, New Jersey
Theodore Eckert Foundation, Niles, Illinois
Donald D. Finlayson, Brimley
Arnold Fisher, West Bloomfield
Peter G. Fitzgerald, McLean, Virginia
Steven M. Freeman, Chicago, Illinois
Stuart D. Freedman, New York, New York
Leonard D. Frescoln, Northville
Larry J. Gerbens, Grand Rapids
Joanne R. Gerhart, Ann Arbor


Dudley J. Godfrey, Jr. Trust
Edward Goldstein, Fullerton, California
Tamas I. Gombosi, Ann Arbor
Anne D. Green, Los Altos, California
Mark W. Griffin, Ann Arbor
Vicki and Michael Gross Family Foundation, New
York, New York
Sheldon and Eva Hamburger Philanthropic Fund,
Bloomfield Hills
Jerry F. Hanlon, Ann Arbor
James H. Harger, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Stanley G. Harris, Lincolnwood, Illinois
Glen D. Heggie, Kalamazoo
David W. Heleniak, New York, New York
Keith S. and Marcelle Henley Foundation, Ann
Arbor
Hewlett Packard Financial Services Center,
Colorado Springs, Colorado
Hewlett Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
Marsha E. Holmes, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
James D. Holzhauer, Chicago, Illinois
James S. House and Wendy Fisher House, Boston,
Massachusetts
Hudson-Webber Foundation, Detroit
Hughes Electronics Corporation, El Segundo,
California
Kenneth A. Jamerson, West Bloomfield
Peter T. Joseph Foundation, New York, New York
Max Kade Foundation, New York, New York
Steven R. Kalt, Bloomfield Hills
Robert P. Kelch, Ann Arbor
KeyBank National Association, Toledo, Ohio
Knight Foundation Fund, Detroit
KPMG Peat Marwick Foundation, Montvale, New
Jersey
Kumon North America, Inc., Teaneck, New Jersey
Katherine E. Kurtz, Pinckney
Anne T. Larin, Huntington Woods
Michael J. Lashendock, Darien, Connecticut
Lawrence Properties & Investments, L. L. C., Ann
Arbor
James A. Leonard, Ann Arbor
Jay J. Levin, West Bloomfield
Kirk Lewis, Boise, Idaho
Richard Lewnau, West Bloomfield
Simon M. Lorne, Los Angeles, Califonia
Lotspeich Company, Inc., Miami, Florida
Michael E. Lueder, Cadillac
William C. Lyle, Jr., Ann Arbor
Kathleen M. Magagna, Ann Arbor
Marcy H. Maguire, Princeton, New Jersey
R. Michael Mahoney, Ann Arbor
James M. Mandich, Miami Lakes, Florida
Oliver Dewey Marcks Foundation, Detroit
HMJS Marks Fund, Washington, D. C.
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., New York,
New York
Steven W. Martineau, Mount Pleasant
McCullough Construction, L.L.C., Washington, D.
C.
James L. McDonald, Old Greenwich, Connecticut
Charlotte McGeoch Revocable Trust
Rogers McVaugh, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
G. Edgar Meads, London, Ontario, Canada
Merck Company Foundation, Whitehouse Station,
New Jersey


251




11ebruary Mveet~ing, 2005


Robert E. Meredith Trust
Roger F. Meyer, Irvine, California
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company,
Saint Paul, Minnesota
Minority Plas, L.L.C., Bloomfield Hills
Susan Mulka Living Revocable Trust
Joan Mulligan Estate
Sang Y. Nam, Ann Arbor
National Public Broadcasting, L.L.C., New York,
New York
Andrea Fischer Newman, Ann Arbor
North American Lighting, Inc., Farmington Hills
Northrop Grumman Litton Foundation, Los
Angeles, California
Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East
Hanover, New Jersey
Novi Endodontics, Novi
Timothy G. Offerle, Whittaker
Sujit K. Pandit, Ann Arbor
Donald R. and Ann V. Parfet Family Foundation,
Kalamazoo
Parker-Hannifin Foundation, Mayfield Heights,
Ohio
Pfizer Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
E. Miles Prentice III, New York, New York
Procter & Gamble Company Miami, Cincinnati,
Ohio
Kimberly A. Purvis, New York, New York
QAD Inc., Carpinteria, California
QQuest Corporation, Dearborn
Raymond & Prokop, P.C., Southfield
Sigurd L. and Jarmila M. Rislov Foundation, Ann
Arbor
John C. Rocchio, Pacific Palisades, California
Rooney Family LLC, Ann Arbor
Dennis E. Ross, Bloomfield Hills
Alan I. Rothenberg, Los Angeles, California
Rotonda Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
Charles H. Sawyer, Chelsea
Shell International E & P, Inc., Houston, Texas
Langley R. Shook, Washington, D. C.
Clifford A. Siegel, London, England
Siemens Automotive Corporation, Auburn Hills


Sandra B. Simon, Ann Arbor
Martin H. Singer, Northbrook, Illinois
Larry J. Skoczylas, Midland
Joan K. Slocum, Naples, Florida
Rollin M. Smith Trust
SmithGroup JJR, Ann Arbor
James Stengel, New York, New York
John and Yolanda Szuch Fund, San Francisco,
California
Helen M. Taylor, Ann Arbor
Robert M. and Elizabeth C. Teeter Fund, San
Francisco, California
Time, Inc., New York, New York
Patricia To, Ann Arbor
Ruth L. Townsend, Birmingham
Ronald E. Trunsky, Orchard Lake
TRW, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
Unisys Corporation, Bismarck, North Dakota
Kathleen L. Vakalo, Ann Arbor
Valeo, Auburn Hills
David G. VanHooser, Toledo, Ohio
Varnum, Riddering, Schmidt & Howlett LLP,
Grand Rapids
Bernard L. Vinson, Manhasset, New York
George A. Vinyard, Chicago, Illinois
Kathleen B. and Charles R. Walgreen III
Foundation, Deerfield, Illinois
Walter H. Weiner Philanthropic Fund, New York,
New York
Keith C. Wetmore, San Francisco, California
Whole Foods Market, Austin, Texas
Clayton E. Wilhite, Ann Arbor
Thomas D. Wilkerson, Richmond, Utah
W. Scott Wilkinson, Birmingham
Jeffrey K. Willemain, Grosse Pointe
Elizabeth Ruthruff Wilson Foundation, Tecumseh
Robert J. Wilson, Portland, Oregon
Richard C. Wilson Trust
Cheryl Wingo, Incline Village, Nevada
David A. Winston Health Policy Fellowship,
Washington, D. C.
Thomas P. Wolfe, Troy
Paul A. Yhouse, Ann Arbor


The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Abrahams Art Partnership, Highland Park, Illinois
part of a fine glass art collection for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
one router Express 8220 router, one Traffice Shaper, and two Intel PRO/Wireless 5000 LAN
starter kits for the School of Public Health
Jerry Juntunen, Chassell
one power wheelchair and power seating system with TTK for the University Hospitals
Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions. He
called  attention  to   several  faculty  appointments, the     Thurnau    Professorship
appointments, and the appointment of James S. Jackson as director of the Institute for
Social Research (ISR).
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Chung, Y. David, M.F.A., Associate Professor of Art and Design, School of Art and Design,
September 1, 2005


252




February Meeting, 2005


Mineishi, Shin, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, March 1, 2005
Montgomery, John, Ph.D., Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1,2005
Van Gent, Elona, M.F.A., Associate Professor of Art and Design, School of Art and Design,
September 1, 2005
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on July 1, 2005
Tesmer, John J.G., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Pharmacology, Medical School
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective April 1, 2005-March 31, 2010
Colenback, Timothy L., Assistant Dean for Student Services, School of Social Work
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Kirschner, Denise E., Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, Medical
School, also appointed Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering, January 1, 2005-December 31, 2007
Moyer, Richard, Professor of Science Education, with tenure, UM-Dearbom School of Education, also
appointed Professor of Natural Sciences, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Science, and
Letters, March 1, 2005
Wang, Lumin, Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, without tenure, also
appointed Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
January 1, 2005-December 31, 2007
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointments to Collegiate Professorships
DiPietro, Michael A., John F. Holt Collegiate Professor of Radiology, Medical School,
April 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Shyy, Wei, Clarence L. "Kelly" Johnson Collegiate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, College of
Engineering, January 1, 2005-December 31, 2009
Appointments to Named Professorships
Barber, James R., Arthur F. Thumau Professor, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Herseth, Freda A., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
McKay, Timothy A., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Monts, Lester P., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Takahara, Takeshi, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Young, Alford A., Jr., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Repointment to an Endowed Proessorship
Ginsburg, David, Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Professor of Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Rea pointmenet to a Named Professorshi
Friedman, Richard D., Ralph W. Aigler Professor of Law, Law School, March 1, 2005-February 28, 2010
Other Transactions
Frost, Carolyn O., Acting Dean, School of Information, March 15-August 15, 2005
Jackson, James S., Director, Institute for Social Research, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2010
Peterson, Paul K., Chair, Department of Philosophy, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
January 1, 2005-December 31, 2007


253




February Meeting, 2005


COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective January 5-August 31, 2005
School of Social Work,xecutive Committee
Gant, Larry M., retroactive, vice William A. Meezan, leaving the University
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Blumberg, Ilana M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Cruz, Carlos, B.F.A., Lecturer in Art, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, January 1-April 30, 2005
Cull, Jeanine A., B.A., Lecturer in Theatre and Dance, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
January 1-April 30, 2005
DeFrance, William L., M.Ed., Lecturer in Economics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Del Valle, Ivonne, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1, 2005-May 31, 2007
Faniel, Ixchel M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Information, School of Information,
January 1-December 31, 2005
Farris, Mary E., B.F.A., Lecturer in Theatre and Dance, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Gmeindl, Leon J., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Herzog, Douglas P., M.S., Lecturer in Chemistry, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Hull, John H., M.S., Lecturer in Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Johnston, Charles C., M.D., Lecturer in Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Kellogg, Carolynn A., M.S.N., Clinical Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, January 1-April 30, 2005
Kimsey, Walter K., Assoc., Lecturer in Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Lambaria, Michele E., B.S., Lecturer in Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Lei, Ming, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, Medical School,
December 15, 2004-December 14, 2005
McCauley, Shannon J., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2005
McClellan, Michelle L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2005
McCray, Jeffrey P., M. Mus., Lecturer in Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2004
McQuaid, Michael J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Information, School of Information,
January 1, 2005-December 31, 2007
Nabih, Hatem E., Ph.D., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, January 1-April 30, 2005
Paul, Abhijeet, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1-May 31, 2005
Slater, Jill A., B.S., Lecturer in Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, January 1-April 30, 2005
Spurlock, Charles J., M.A., Lecturer in Sociology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Szerszen, Maria M., Ph.D., Lecturer in Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Tisler, Anthony C., M.S.E.E., Lecturer in Electrical and Computer Engineering, UM-Dearborn College
of Engineering and Computer Science, January 1-April 30, 2005
Van der Ven, Anton, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, College of
Engineering, January 1, 2005-May 31, 2007
Wistrand, Carolyn N., M.A., Lecturer in Africana Studies, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
January 1-April 30, 2005


254




February Meeting, 2005


Zimmerman, Martin B., Ph.D., Clinical Professor of Business Administration, Stephen M. Ross School
of Business, January 1-May 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Campbell, Carolyn, Lecturer in Sociology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, also appointed
Lecturer in Education, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Cunningham, Rebecca, from Clinical Instructor to Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical
School, November 1, 2004-October 31, 2005
Jordan, Coleman A., Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, also appointed Assistant Professor of Afro-American and African Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2008
Khaja, Fareed, from Clinical Lecturer to Clinical Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
January 13, 2005-June 30, 2007
Minter, Rebecca M., from Clinical Instructor to Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School,
November 11, 2004-November 10, 2005
Raoof, Ameed, from Lecturer in Cell and Developmental Biology and Lecturer in Medical Education to
Lecturer in Cell and Developmental Biology and Assistant Professor of Medical Education,
Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2005
Sato, Tetsuya, Lecturer III in East Asian Studies in the Residential College also appointed Lecturer III in
Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Vazquez, Roland, Lecturer in Music (Jazz and Improvisation), School of Music, also appointed Lecturer
I in American Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Ansbacher, Rudi, Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2005
Barclay, Mel L., Associate Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
February 1, 2005-January 31, 2006
Barr, Mason, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Professor Emeritus of
Teratology, and Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Bilello, John C., Professor Emeritus of Materials Science and Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1-June 30, 2005
Birdsall, William C., Associate Professor Emeritus of Social Work, School of Social Work,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Brown, Donald R., Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Eisley, Joe G., Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Ellis, Dennis F., Professor Emeritus of Business Economics, UM-Flint School of Management,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Fortner, Richard W., Professor Emeritus of Management and Dean Emeritus, UM-Flint School of
Management, January 1-April 30, 2005
Greenwood, Donald T., Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Maple, Frank F., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Social Work, School of Social Work, January 1-August 31, 2005
Pehlke, Robert D., Professor Emeritus of Metallurgical Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1-July 31, 2005
Powers, Lyall, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature and Professor Emeritus of
Curriculum Support, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2005
Roloff, Dietrich W., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2005
Schmerl, Rudolf B., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education,
January 1-April 30, 2005


255




February Meeting, 2005


Singer, J. David, Professor Emeritus of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Baxter, William H., III, Associate Professor of Chinese Languages and Literatures, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Chinese Languages and Literatures in the Program in Linguistics, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, extended sick leave, January 1-April 4, 2005
Bell, Betty L., Associate Professor of English, Women's Studies, and American Literature, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Blakely, Everett J., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Education and
Human Services, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Chapman, J. Wehrley, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2007-May 31, 2008
Garabrant, David H, Professor of Occupational Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Epidemiology,
without tenure, School of Public Health, and Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, without
tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Gerdes, David W., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Haniff, Nesha Z., Lecturer III in Women's Studies and Lecturer III in Afro-American and African Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Harwood, Ronna B., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, child care leave,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Kennedy, Michael D., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Krajcik, Joseph S., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2005
Lakshmanan, Sridhar, Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
College of Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2005
Lal, Jayati, Assistant Professor of Sociology and Assistant Professor of Women's Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Lam, David A., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Liu, Lydia, Helmut F. Stem Professor of Chinese Studies, Professor of Asian Languages and Cultures,
with tenure, and Professor of Comparative Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Merrill, Christi A., Assistant Professor of Comparative Literature and Assistant Professor of Asian
Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Potts, Alexander D., Max Loehr Collegiate Professor of the History of Art and Professor of the History
of Art, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave,
January 1-May 31, 2005
Robinson, Terry E., Elliott S. Valenstein Professor and Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Schwartz, Jennifer L., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dermatology, Medical School, child care leave,
January 19-February 22, 2005
Sekaquaptewa, Denise J., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Sonda, Paul L., III, Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, extended sick leave,
December 14, 2004-February 28, 2005
Spice, Loren R., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
personal leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Stixrude, Lars P., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Tedesco, Lisa A., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, administrative leave,
February 1-July 31, 2005
Turits, Richard L., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Afro-American and African Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Uribe, Bernardo, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
personal leave, January 1-May 31, 2005


256




February Meeting, 2005


Verdery, Katherine M., Eric R. Wolf Professor of Anthropology and Professor of Anthropology, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Verhoogt, Arthur M., Associate Professor of Papyrology and Greek, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-December 31, 2005
Wilensky, Beth H., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, child care leave, February 5-27, 2005
Wilfong, Terry G., Associate Professor of Egyptology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004, and scholarly activity leave,
January 1-May 31, 2005
Zhao, Dongming, Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2004
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCES GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Fine, John V., Jr., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
extended sick leave, September 22, 2004-January 9, 2005 (previously reported as
September 22-December 31, 2004)
Gull, Maria E., Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, personal leave, November 1-30, 2004 (previously reported November 1-December 31, 2004)
Scheiman, James M., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2004-June 30, 2005 (previously reported as September 1, 2004-February 28, 2005)
CANCELLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Blackman, Stephen A., Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
January 14-28, 2005, and February 22-25, 2005, personal leave
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Aiken, Kimberly D., Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
January 15, 2004
Arroyo, Jossianna, Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 2004
Ayash, Lois J., Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, December 15, 2004
Knapp, Christopher B., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, December 31, 2004
Koditschek, Daniel E., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College
of Engineering, December 31, 2004
Retired
Beaver, Frank E., Professor of Film and Video Studies, without tenure, and Professor of
Communications, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2004
Beck, Astrid B., Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, December 31, 2004
Friedman, David I., Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, Medical School,
December 31, 2004
Goldberg, Edward, George W. Morley Collegiate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Clinical
Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, December 31, 2004
Kamachi, Noriko, Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of the Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, December 31, 2004
Nowak, Andrzej S., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, December 31, 2004
Reddy, Nallapu N., Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
December 31, 2004
Roehl, Richard W., Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of the Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, December 31, 2004
Stoermer, Eugene F., Professor of Natural Resources, without tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, January 9, 2005


257




February Meeting, 2005


Term Completed
Benson, Kelley E., Lecturer in Music (Piano Pedagogy), School of Music, December 31, 2004
Gold, Lauren H., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
December 15, 2004
CORRECTION TO TERMINATION OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Johnson, Richard A., Clinical Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, retired, May 31, 2005
(previously reported as June 30, 2005)
Institute for Social Research. It was decided that a separate vote would be taken
on the ISR director appointment. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent
McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved the appointment of James S. Jackson as
director of the Institute for Social Research.
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Krislov, acting as vice president and
secretary of the University, submitted nine faculty retirement memoirs.
Kenneth L. Campbell, Ph.D., senior research scientist in the University of
Michigan Transportation Research Institute (UMTRI), retired from active faculty status
on August 10, 2001.
Dr. Campbell received his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees from the University of
Wisconsin in 1967, 1968, and 1971 respectively. He was a research engineer at General
Motors from 1971-74 and joined the University of Michigan as an assistant research
scientist in 1974. He was promoted to associate research scientist in 1977, research
scientist in 1991, and senior research scientist in 1997, and he served as director of the
Center for National Truck Statistics from 1988-2001 and division head of the UMTRI
Survey Analysis Division from 1997-2001.
Dr. Campbell applied statistical methods to the analysis of transportation safety.
His work included the design and management of large-scale accident and travel survey
programs, creation of models of factors associated with accident risk, identification of
prevalent collision situations for advanced collision avoidance technology, and
development of deterministic models to predict the probability of injury in a collision.
His research focused on the application of multivariate statistical techniques to
determine the relationship of driver, vehicle, highway, and environmental factors to
accident risk. His work with proposed Intelligent Transportation Systems helped
develop collision typologies to classify accidents so as to identify the collision
situations with the greatest potential for the use of advanced collision-avoidance
technology. More recently, he applied statistical methods to distributions of time to
collision in normal driving to estimate the effect of advanced technologies on the
probability of collision.
Dr. Campbell received the Society of Automotive Engineers' Excellence in Oral
Presentation Award and the Arch T. Colwell Award. He held leadership positions on
the UMTRI Executive Committee and the Motor Vehicle Safety Research Advisory
Committee at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Kenneth L. Campbell
senior research scientist emeritus.
Robert D. Ervin, research professor in the University of Michigan Transportation
Research Institute (UMTRI) and research scientist in the College of Engineering,
retired from active faculty status on October 31, 2004.


258




February lMeeting, 2005


Robert Ervin received his B.S. degree from the University of Detroit in 1966 and
his M.S. degree from Comrnell University in 1968. He joined the University of Michigan
as a research associate in 1961 and was promoted to associate research engineer in
1970, associate research scientist in 1974, research scientist in 1978, senior research
scientist in 1997, and research professor in 2003. He was appointed research scientist
in mechanical engineering in 1989 and within UMTRI served as head of the
Engineering Research Division from 1989-2003 and interim director from 1987-89 and
in 1999.
World-renowned for creating an understanding of the stability and control of
heavy trucks, Professor Ervin focused his research on the mechanical performance of
motor vehicles and, in particular, the dynamics and control of vehicles as applied to the
operation, design, and policy issues affecting traffic safety. Professor Ervin engaged in
the conceptual development and evaluation of Intelligent Transportation Systems, and
he advanced the field of electrorheological control systems in collaboration with
investigators in the College of Engineering. Since 1989, his focus has been on
modeling, measurement, and evaluation of active safety technology for motor vehicles.
In 2004, Professor Ervin received the Society of Automotive Engineers' Delco
Electronics Intelligent Transportation Systems Award in recognition of his outstanding
leadership and contribution to the advancement of intelligent transportation systems. He
served as project director and principal investigator of approximately 130 grants and
contracts and co-founded the Industrial Affiliates Program in Electrorheology, the
Intelligent Vehicle Highway Systems program, and the ITS Research Center of
Excellence. As head of the Engineering Research Division of UMTRI, he provided
outstanding leadership and served for many years on the UMTRI Executive Committee.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Robert D. Ervin research
professor emeritus and research scientist emeritus.
David I. Friedman, M.D., professor of microbiology and immunology in the
Medical School, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 2004.
Dr. Friedman received his B.A. and M.D. degrees from the University of
Minnesota in 1960 and 1964, respectively. He did post-doctoral work at Purdue
University from 1965-66, served at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research from
1966-68, and completed additional post-doctoral training at the National Institutes of
Health from 1968-71. Dr. Friedman joined the University of Michigan faculty as an
assistant professor in 1971 and was promoted to associate professor in 1974 and
professor in 1977. He was acting chair of the Department of Microbiology from
1983-84 and director of the Cellular Biotechnology Training Program from 1994-2003.
Dr. Friedman studied the interplay of bacterial viruses (phage) and their bacterial
hosts to answer basic questions about the molecular biology of the cell. He did
pioneering work to characterize the developmental pathway governing growth of phage
lambda in Escherichia coli, focusing on lytic gene expression regulated by the phage N
protein. This led to the discovery of several host factors required for N function, which
he called Nus factors, and revealed that regulation of transcript elongation is a key
mechanism for controlling gene expression. Dr. Friedman also discovered the himA
gene, which encodes the Integration Host Factor required for a vast number of
important protein-DNA interactions in the cell, and he has been studying the role of
phage development in the pathogenesis of enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC). He
demonstrated that toxin released by these bacteria is dependent on phage lytic growth


259




February Meeting, 2005


functions and linked the bacteriophage developmental program to a critical feature of
EHEC pathogenesis.
In addition to his numerous scientific achievements, Dr. Friedman was a dedicated
teacher. He led the highly-regarded cellular biotechnology training program for ten
years, taught a popular course on bacterial genetics, and taught molecular biology to
first-year medical students. He was a tireless and generous mentor and friend to
numerous students, postdocs, staff, and faculty.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming David I. Friedman
professor emeritus of microbiology and immunology.
Noriko Kamachi, Ph.D., professor of history in the College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, retired from active faculty status on
December 31, 2004.
Professor Kamachi received her B.A. degree from Ochanomizu University in
Tokyo in 1960 and her M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard University in 1966 and
1972, respectively. She joined the University of Michigan-Dearborn faculty as a
lecturer in 1971 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1972, associate professor in
1976, and professor in 1981.
Professor Kamachi taught numerous courses on Japanese and Chinese history,
including Chinese civilization, Japanese society and culture, traditional China, late
Imperial China, modern China, traditional Japan, and modem Japan. Her research
interests centered on Japanese historiography of modern China, Sino-Japanese relations
in the modem period, and cultural identity in an age of nationalism. She has also
written numerous articles on East Asian history.
Professor Kamachi has served as a faculty associate with the Center for Chinese
Studies since 1973, a faculty associate with the Center for Japanese Studies since 1990,
and the director of publications for the Center for Chinese Studies since 1998. She is a
member of the Association for Asian Studies, the American Society for Legal History,
and the Society for Chinese Legal History in Japan.
The Regents now salute this dedicated and accomplished teacher and scholar by
naming Noriko Kamachi professor emerita of history.
Charles C. MacAdam, research scientist in the University of Michigan
Transportation Research Institute (UMTRI), retired from active faculty status on
December 1, 2003.
Mr. MacAdam received his B.S. and M.S. degrees from the University of
Michigan in 1969 and 1971, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty
as a research associate in 1971 and was promoted to senior research associate in 1978,
assistant research scientist in 1980, associate research scientist in 1988, and research
scientist in 2000.
A solid engineering investigator and a well-organized project manager, Mr.
MacAdam led UMTRI's Engineering Research Division (ERD) into specialized areas
of modeling and analysis that support its focal area of study in vehicle dynamics and
control. His early work into field measurement and modeling of the driving process
influenced the research trajectory that is now so central to the ERD research program.
Mr. MacAdam directed and managed numerous motor vehicle research projects related
to the braking and handling dynamics of passenger cars, commercial vehicles, and
motorcycles, and he was frequently involved with the development and experimental
validation of models and computer simulations used to study vehicle dynamics and


260




February Meeting, 2005


driver-vehicle interactions. In 1980, he developed a preview-based steering control
model used in numerous vehicle simulation programs to represent the closed-loop
steering control behavior of drivers. He was responsible for full-scale test programs
and analysis of cross-wind aerodynamics of passenger cars, advanced research into
closed-loop driver steering control processes, the dynamics of commercial vehicles, and
vehicle-highway design interactions.
Mr. MacAdam enjoyed special prominence in the world's most prestigious
organization in vehicle dynamics and control, the International Association of Vehicle
System Dynamics (IAVSD). He has published in most of the bi-annual IAVSD
international symposia since 1979, and in 1995, he was chair of the 14th IAVSD
symposium. He served on the editorial board of the IAVSD journal for many years and
was elected to the IAVSD Board of Trustees in 1999.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Charles C. MacAdam
research scientist emeritus.
Kurt Metzger, Ph.D., associate research scientist in the College of Engineering,
retired from active faculty status on April 30, 2004.
Dr. Metzger received his B.S.E., M.S.E., and Ph.D. degrees from the University of
Michigan in 1963, 1966, and 1983, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty as an assistant research engineer in 1966 and was promoted to assistant research
scientist in 1974 and associate research scientist in 1987.
Dr. Metzger entered the field of digital signal processing during its infancy and
played a significant role in many of the key ocean acoustic propagation measurements
made over the last 35 years. In 1978, he worked with fellow researcher John L.
Spiesberger to conduct propagation measurements that set the stage for Walter Munk's
pioneering ocean acoustic tomography experiment in 1981.   These measurements
demonstrated that multipath propagation exists in the ocean, that the paths can be
identified, and that they are stable and can be tracked. In recognition, he was included in
the dedication of the first book published on ocean acoustic tomography. Dr. Metzger was
responsible for signal generation and processing of the first receptions for the 1991 Heard
Island Feasibility Test (HIFT), in which ship-based acoustic transmissions, originated just
off Heard Island in the Antarctic, were received simultaneously on both U.S. coasts and
many other glob-spanning receiving sites. Following HIFT, he was one of the principal
investigators for the multi-year, ocean-basin spanning Acoustic Thermometry of Ocean
Climate measurement.
Dr. Metzger's digital signal processing design laboratory course provided students
with a major design experience, and his exceptional dedication to teaching and to his field
has encouraged many undergraduate students to pursue careers in digital signal processing.
Dr. Metzger presented his work at many conferences and co-authored numerous journal
articles. His outstanding contributions are recognized and appreciated by colleagues and
former students around the world.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Kurt Metzger associate
research scientist emeritus.
Andrzej S. Nowak, Ph.D., professor of civil engineering in the College of
Engineering, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 2004.
Professor Nowak received his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Politechnika
Warszawska (Warsaw Technical University) in 1970 and 1975, respectively. From
1976-78, he was a research associate at the University of Waterloo in Canada, and from


261




February Meeting, 2005


1978-79 he was an assistant professor at the State University of New York at Buffalo.
Professor Nowak joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in
1979 and was promoted to associate professor in 1984 and professor in 1990.
An expert in structural reliability and bridge engineering, Professor Nowak has
served as director of the Michigan Bridge and Reliability Research Center since 2001.
His major research accomplishments include the development of a reliability-based
calibration procedure for calculation of load and resistance factors. This procedure was
successfully applied on Canadian Highway Bridge Design Code and British Standard
BS-5400. He also made important contributions in the area of bridge diagnostics and
evaluation, including analytical load models used for prediction of extreme load events
for bridges and buildings and the development of loads on bridges and fatigue load
spectra. His proof load test procedure using military tanks saved many bridges and
millions of dollars for the Michigan Department of Transportation.
Professor Nowak chaired the doctoral committees for 26 students, organized
several major international conferences on reliability and bridge engineering, authored
more than 300 refereed publications, and chaired a number of committees associated
with professional organizations. He received the University of Michigan College of
Engineering Excellence in Research Award, the International Federation for
Information Processing WG 7.5 Award, the Polish-American Engineers Association
Award, and the Moisseiff Award and an honorary professorship from the American
Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE).
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Andrzej S. Nowak
professor emeritus of civil engineering.
Richard W. Roehl, Ph.D., professor of economics in the College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 2004.
Professor Roehl received his B.S. degree from Columbia University in 1963 and
his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of California-Berkeley in 1965 and
1968, respectively.  He was an    assistant professor at the University  of
California-Berkeley from  1968-74 and a visiting associate professor at Bowdoin
College from 1974-76. Professor Roehl joined the University of Michigan-Dearborn
faculty as an associate professor in 1976 and was promoted to professor in 1979.
Professor Roehl's major research efforts and publications concentrated on
medieval feudalism and modern European economic development, and he taught
courses in American economic history, European economic history, and the history of
economic thought. As director of the Master of Arts in Liberal Studies Program of the
Dearborn campus (2001-03), he helped develop the core graduate courses for the M.A.
degree. He was chair of the Department of Social Sciences from 1978-81 and associate
dean of the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters from 1993-99. Professor Roehl was
an active member of the American Economic Association, the American Historical
Association, the Economic History Association, the Economics History Society, and the
Medieval Academy of America.
The Regents now salute this dedicated and accomplished teacher and scholar by
naming Richard W. Roehl professor emeritus of economics.
Eugene F. Stoermer, Ph.D., professor of natural resources in the School of
Natural Resources and Environment and research scientist in the Herbarium, retired


262




February lMeeting, 2005


from active faculty status on January 9, 2005, after a most productive career as a teacher
and researcher.
Professor Stoermer received his B.S. degree from Iowa State University in 1958
and his Ph.D. degree from Iowa State University in 1963. From 1963-65, he was a
research associate and instructor at Iowa State University. He joined the University of
Michigan in 1965 as an associate research algologist, and he served as a research
associate taxonomist from 1965-66 and a lecturer from 1969-73. He was appointed
associate research scientist in 1973 and associate professor in 1976 and was promoted
to research scientist in 1974 and professor in 1985.
With a wide range of scholarly interests, Professor Stoermer's research has
examined the physical, chemical, and biological limnology of large lakes such as the
Great Lakes and Lake Baikal. However, his major interest centers on diatoms, a group
of microscopic algae.  Professor Stoermer published broadly on diatoms and is
recognized internationally as one of the leading authorities on the taxonomy of these
diverse organisms.  He introduced many students to diatoms in classes at the
University's Biological Station, the Kellogg Biological Station, and the Iowa Lakeside
Laboratory.
Professor Stoermer has provided generous service to the academic community. He
participated in numerous professional organizations and served as president of the
Phycological Society of America and the International Society of Diatom Research.
The Regents salute this distinguished educator and researcher by naming Eugene F.
Stoermer professor emeritus of natural resources and environment and research scientist
emeritus.
Memorials. Vice President Krislov, acting as vice president and secretary of the
University, submitted a memorial statement for Professor Gerard M. Faeth, whose death
was reported at the last meeting.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death of Gerard M. Faeth, the Arthur B. Modine Distinguished University
Professor of Aerospace Engineering, professor of aerospace engineering, and professor
of mechanical engineering. Professor Faeth died at the age of 68 on January 24, 2005.
Professor Faeth earned his B.M.E. degree from Union College in Schenectady,
New York, and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from The Pennsylvania State University. In
recognition of his distinguished career at The Pennsylvania State University, he was
named professor emeritus of mechanical engineering in 1985. Professor Faeth was
internationally recognized for his diverse and lasting contributions to aerospace and
mechanical engineering. His career, characterized by its excellence and originality,
focused on the study of homogeneous and heterogeneous combustion processes,
pollutant emissions from flames, the properties of soot in flames, fire suppression, spray
breakup phenomena, and turbulent forced and natural convection processes. His
research was significant to both researchers and practicing engineers and crossed
several disciplines including physics, chemistry, and aerospace and mechanical
engineering. His ability to bridge disciplines was illustrated by his election to the rank
of Fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Institute of
Aeronautics and Astronautics, the American Association for the Advancement of
Science, and the American Physical Society. He was also a member and national
associate for the National Academy of Engineering, served on the board of directors for
the Combustion Institute, and was a principal investigator for projects supported by the


263




February Meeting, 2005


Office of Naval Research, the National Science Foundation, the Air Force Office of
Scientific Research, the Army Research Office, NASA, the U.S. Department of
Commerce National Agency, and other governmental and private entities. His work
included several combustion experiments at microgravity conditions aboard NASA
space shuttle missions and space station facilities. Professor Faeth supervised more than
50 graduate students, including 32 post doctoral graduates; gave invited lectures
worldwide; served as editor of numerous professional journals; and authored and
co-authored over 500 journal articles and papers.
Professor Faeth, known as Jerry to his many friends and colleagues, also
contributed much to the communities in which he maintained homes--Ann Arbor,
Michigan, and Eagles Mere, Pennsylvania--through years of public service. As we
mourn the loss of this distinguished scientist and teacher, we also extend our
condolences to his wife and companion of 45 years, Mary Ann Kordich Faeth; daughter
Christine Faeth and grandson Jonathon Joseph Faeth; daughter Lorraine Faeth and
grandsons Matthew Lewis and Erik Samuel Clouser; daughter Elinor Damo, son-in-law
Antonio Damo and grandchildren Kristin Marie, Leah Faeth and Antonio Donald
Damo; and brother Henry J. Faeth and sister-in-law M. Carole Kordich.
Degrees.  Provost Courant submitted final degree lists for the August and
December 2004 commencements and changes to previously approved degree lists.
Copies of the degree lists are on file in the Office of the Vice President and Secretary of
the University.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
The Regents then turned to consideration of the regular agenda.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Odyssey Investment Partners Fund III, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $20 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Odyssey Investment Partners Fund III, L.P.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Sovereign Capital Limited Partnership II)
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to ~12 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Sovereign Capital Limited Partnership II.
U.S. Equity Investment
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved Forest Hill Capital, with initial funding of $40 million.
Central Campus South Steam Line
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Central Campus South Steam Line project as described in the
Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.


264




February Meeting, 200)5


Central Power Plant - Replacement of Two Steam Turbines
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that the Central Power Plant is an
award-winning co-generation plant, known for its efficiency. This project will replace the
existing turbines with steam turbines that are 10% more efficient than the current ones,
saving additional money and reducing carbon dioxide emissions. On a motion by Regent
Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved replacement of
two steam turbines in the Central Power Plant as described and authorized issuing the
project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the
approved budget.
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Building Solid State Electronics Lab
Addition and Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Building
Solid State Electronics Lab Addition and Renovation Project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Engineering Research Buildings I & II, Gerstacker Building, and School of
Information North Building Boiler Replacement
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the Engineering Research Buildings I & II, Gerstacker Building,
and School of Information North Building Boiler Replacement project as described in the
Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library Central Chiller Plant and       Substation
Replacement
Executive Vice President Slottow commented that this project will consolidate
several existing chillers into a regional chiller plant that will serve multiple buildings.
Such a regional system reduces capital costs and increases operational efficiency. On a
motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously
approved the Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library Central Chiller Plan and Substation
Replacement Project and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) University
Hospital Steam Sterilizer Project
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) University Hospital Steam Sterilizer Project as described in the Regents
Communication and authorized commissioning Engineering Specialties Group for its
design.
North Campus Auditorium
Executive Vice President Slottow commented that the need for a large classroom
auditorium on North Campus has been identified by the deans on that campus as their
highest common priority. It has been determined that the most suitable location for this


265




February Meeting, 2005


auditorium would be to connect it to the Walgreen Drama Center. The recommended
architect for this project, KPMB, is the same architect approved for the Walgreen Drama
Center. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the North Campus Auditorium Project as described and authorized
commissioning Kuwabara Payne McKenna Blumberg (KPMB) for its design.
Stephen M. Ross School of Business Facilities Enhancement Project
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that this project evolved from the strategic
facilities plan developed for the School of Business over the last year. Provost Courant
commented that this project will provide the kind of facility that is essential for a top
notch business school, and he introduced Dean Robert Dolan.
Dean Dolan reported that the school's facilities have for some time been
insufficient for properly supporting and enhancing its students' educational experiences.
A team of faculty, staff, and students had formed to study the issue and concluded that
there were three major dimensions that needed to be addressed: the design of the
classrooms needs to be changed to enhance the opportunity for discussion and
interaction, group study rooms are needed to facilitate action-based learning and team
projects, and community space is needed to allow the building to be used for extended
hours. He noted that Stephen M. Ross's gift has enabled the school to move forward
with enacting these plans, which would encompass both new construction and
demolition of existing structures.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the Stephen M. Ross School of Business Facilities Enhancement
project as described and authorized commissioning Kohn Pederson Fox Associates for
its design.
East Huron Street at Glen Avenue Parcels for Roadway Improvements
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the transfer of ownership of two parcels of land on the north side
of East Huron Street between Zina Pitcher Place and Glen Avenue, as shown in the
Regents Communication, to the Michigan Department of Transportation to allow the
construction of a right turn lane on East Huron Street at Glen Avenue.
William Monroe Trotter House Infrastructure Upgrades
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the William Monroe Trotter House Infrastructure Upgrades
Project as described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for
bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved
budget.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes 5 conflict of interest items,
each of which requires 6 votes for approval. On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by
Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously approved each of the following items:


266




11ebruary Mveet~ing, 2005


Purchasing Contract with Lovango Records, LLC
The Regents approved a payment to Lovango Records, LLC, to provide musical
performances for the Department of Plastic Surgery's annual holiday party for three years.
Because John Latini, a band member with Lovango Records, LLC, is also a University of
Michigan employee, this purchase falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Plastic Surgery and Lovango Records, LLC.
2.   The product to be provided is annual musical performances for three years in the
amount of $4,500.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that John Latini, a University of Michigan
employee, is a band member with Lovango Records, LLC.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Coherix, Inc.
The Regents approved research agreements with Coherix, Inc., to provide support
for student research. Because Dr. Mohammed N. Islam, chief technology officer of optics
at Coherix, Inc., is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Coherix,
Inc.
2.   The initial student research project is to be conducted over a twelve-month period at
an estimated cost of $56,240. Since research agreements are often amended, the
subcontract includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope. University of
Michigan procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and additional
review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Islam, a University of Michigan
employee, is chief technology officer of optics at Coherix, Inc.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Internet 2
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with Internet 2 to support
collaborative activities related to contract NBCHC040146 from the Department of
Interior. Because Dr. Douglas Van Houweling, president and chief executive officer of
Internet 2, is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Internet
2.
2.   The subcontract to the University is estimated at $80,402 for the period of January 1,
2005 through September 30, 2005. Since research agreements are often amended, the
agreement includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope. University
procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and additional review by
the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate. The subcontract terms
are consistent with University policies and Regental bylaws.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Van Houweling, a University of
Michigan employee, is president and chief executive officer of Intemrnet 2.


267




February Meeting, 2005


Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Therapeutic
Systems Research Laboratories, Inc. ("TSRL") (Identification and utilization of
prodrug targets)
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with Therapeutic Systems Research
Laboratories, Inc., to identify and utilize prodrug targets for oral absorption and targeting
to virally infected cells. Because Dr. Gordon Amidon, owner, chief scientific officer, and
chair of TSRL, is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and TSRL.
2.   The period of performance for the project is five years, and the amount of funding
support is $1,152,648. Since research agreements are often amended, the agreement
includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope. University procedures for
approval of these changes will be followed and additional review by the Conflict of
Interest Committee will be done as appropriate. The subcontract terms are consistent
with University policies and Regental bylaws.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Gordon Amidon, a University of
Michigan employee, is owner, chief scientific officer, and chair of TSRL.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Therapeutic
Systems Research Laboratories, Inc. ("TSRL") (Antiviral studies on improved
prodrugs for biodefense)
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with Therapeutic Systems Research
Laboratories, Inc., to investigate antiviral studies on improved prodrugs for biodefense.
Because Dr. Gordon Amidon, owner, chief scientific officer, and chair of TSRL, is also a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and TSRL.
2.   The period of performance for the project is five years, and the amount of funding
support is $719,126. Since research agreements are often amended, the agreement
includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope. University procedures for
approval of these changes will be followed and additional review by the Conflict of
Interest Committee will be done as appropriate. The subcontract terms are consistent
with University policies and Regental bylaws.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Gordon Amidon, a University of
Michigan employee, is owner, chief scientific officer, and chair of TSRL.
Revisions to Committee Charters and Regents' Bylaw 1.07
Regent Maynard reported that the Compensation and Personnel Committee would be
broadening its area of interest to include the issue of board governance. The proposed
revisions to the Regents' Bylaws and committee charters would change the title and
responsibilities accordingly. Regent Maynard noted that it is important that the Board
continue to be open to the possibility that, from time to time, other bylaw changes might
become necessary as the Board continues to consider how it can best govern within the
framework of its committee structure.
With respect to the proposed revisions to the Finance, Audit and Investment
Committee charter, Regent Taylor noted that the committee had reviewed best practices
and had consulted with its external auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers. The proposed


268




February Meeting, 2005


revised charter has been fully vetted by the committee and is recommended to the full
Board for approval.
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved revisions to Regents' Bylaw 1.07 and revised committee
charters (see appendix on page 270).
Revision to Regents' Bylaw Section 11.65: Kinesiology
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the following revisions to Regents' Bylaw Section 11.65
(additions underlined, deletions erossed-out):
Section 11.65. Division of Kinesiology
The Division of Kinesiology will be maintained for the purpose of conducting research and
offering curricula in movement scienceand sports management, athletic training, and physical
education. and communications. It will be in the charge of a dean appointed by the Board on
recommendation by the president and responsible to the provost and executive vice president for
academic affairs.
The executive committee will consist of the dean and four members of the governing faculty to
be appointed by the Board on recommendation by the president. The appointed faculty members
will hold office for a two-years term., and the terms shall be so adjusted that two will expire
each year. The appointed faculty mMembers will tot be eligible to servefor retppointment two
consecutive two-year terms, but will not be eligible for reappointment to any additional two-year
terms until after the lapse of onetwo years. The membership terms will be adjusted so that two
appointments will expire each year. The dean will chair the committee.
A five-minute break followed, at 4:20 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people on the topic of amending
the Regents Bylaws to include a nondiscrimination statement regarding gender identity or
expression: Stephen Rassi, student and member of Transforum, Rainbow Network, and
Q-Vis Caucus; Andre Wilson, student and member of Transforum; Kris Caplan, alumnus;
Andrea Knittel, student and co-chair of the Stonewall Democrats; Elaine Wilson, citizen;
and Denise Brogan, student and board member of Outlaws. They also heard from Jim
Mogensen, citizen, on the town-gown relationship, and Rese Fox, student, external
relations chair of the Michigan Student Assembly, and campus outreach coordinator for
Students for PIRGIM, on the topic of higher education funding.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 5:10 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for March 17, 2005.
Marvin Krisolov
acting as Vice President and Secretary of the University


269




FEBRUARY MEETING, 2005 - APPENDIX
REGENTS BYLAWS REVISIONS
AND
COMMITTEE CHARTER REVISIONS
Note: Additions are underlined; deletions are crossed out.
Sec. 1.07. Committees (revised February 2005)
A. Committee of the Whole
When the Board resolves itself into a committee of the whole, the chair of the
Board will serve as chair of the committee.
B. Ad Hoc Committees
The chair may establish ad hoc committees of the Board and the Board will
prescribe their duties and functions. The president of the University or the
president's designee will serve as an ex officio member without vote of all such
committees. Board membership on any such committee will consist of less than
a quorum of the membership of the Board.
C. Standing Committees
There will be two standing committees of the Board of Regents, each composed
of less than a quorum of the members of the Board, appointed by the chair.
These committees will advise the Board of Regents on matters pertaining to
their subject areas and will present periodic reports and recommendations, but
will not have the power to bind the Board of Regents on any matter. These
committees will determine the frequency, time and place of their meetings, in
consultation with other members of the Board.
1. The Finance, Audit and Investment Committee
This committee will provide assistance to the Board in fulfilling its
responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the
University's internal controls and financial reporting and investment
policies and practices. This committee will review, at its discretion, matters
that may include the annual audit, financial statements and reporting,
investments, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
2. The Personnel, Compensation and Pers,,el Governance Committee
This committee will provide assistance to assist the Board in evaluating the
performance of and determining the appropriate level of compensation for
the president. It also will advise the president on the performance of and
compensation for the executive officers, and will, from time to time-.The
comm...ittee will, at its disretn, review compensation-related data in order
to maintain and enhance the University's competitive status in higher
education. The Committee will review the University leadership's progress
on diversity. It will be responsible for matters related to governance and
Board performance, and will advise the Board on University-wide conflict
of interest policies.,,.,,,,,,nc go,.t-edAi.... and oth.r rllvant infrmaion.JL,vauu~ua_.rur


270




February Meeting, 2005 - Appendix
Committee Charter Revisions (additions underlined; deletions reossed out)
Personnel, Compensation and Persoimtel Governance Committee Charter
The Personnel, Compensation and Personnel Governance Committee will
review all policy matters regarding the evaluation and compensation of the
president of the University and will make recommendations to the Board of
Regents regarding all such matters. Periodically, the committee will review
with the president the procedures and methods used in the evaluation of the
executive officers, and will advise the president on the performance of and
compensation for the executive officers. The committee will, from time to time,
review salary studies, market data and other relevant compensation-related
information for executive officers, faculty, and staff in order to maintain and
enhance the University's competitive status in higher education. It will, from
time to time, review the University's progress on faculty and staff diversity.
The Committee will be responsible for matters related to Board governance, and
will direct an annual self-assessment of the Board's functions and performance.
The Committee will recommend University-wide conflict of interest policies to
the Board and, from time to time, will review compliance.
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee Charter
Replace current charter approved December 12, 2002 with revised charter:
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee Chrt
The Finance, Audit and Investment Committee willreviewsiandtmake
recommendations tomio3 the Board on the following matters:
condition, boowing-and investment policies, annualJopraLting budget
insurance and risk management programs, capital investment criteria and
financial rpoefbing practices.
Audit: Including but not limited to the University's annual external audit,
Investment: The University's investment perfoance and investment repofting
("University" includes the Ann Arbor, Dearborn, and Flint campuses, the
Iversit of Michigan Health System, and the Department of Intercollegiate
I.     Finance Audit & Investment (FA  Committee Responsibilities.A campuses, the University of Michigan   Health  System, and the
Department of Intercollegiate  Athletics.)  The  FAI Committee
responsibilities include:
AI 1ILL[ -~ I  -,-'


(1) oversight of the University's financing plans, financial condition,
borrowing and investment policies, annual operating budgets,


271




February Meeting, 2005 - Appendix


insurance and risk management programs, capital investment criteria
and financial reporting practices.
(2) oversight of the quality and integrity of the University's
accounting, auditing, external financial reporting, and compliance
practices.
(3) oversight of the University's investment function and investment
reporting practices, and
(4) any other responsibilities as assigned by the Board.
II.   Composition and Meetings
The FAI Committee is composed of less than a quorum of the
membership of the Board and is appointed by the chair of the Board.
The chair of the Board will appoint the chair of the FAI Committee. The
FAI Committee will advise the Board on matters pertaining to its
oversight areas and will present periodic reports and recommendations
but will not have the power to bind the Board on any matter. The FAI
Committee is deemed independent because the Board is publicly elected
and the Regents are bound by law regarding conflict of interest (State
Law, MCL 15.301 and Bylaw 1.14).
The FAI Committee may meet as often as necessary but not less than
four times in a calendar year.
In appointing members to the FAI Committee, the chair of the Board
will, if practical, select one or more Board members with accounting or
financial management expertise.  The FAI Committee may, at its
discretion, hire financial expertise from outside the University.
III.   The Responsibilities of the FAI Committee
A. Finance Responsibilities
The following are the financial responsibilities of the FAI Committee:
*  Review the overall financial health of the University and
financial policies.
*  Review the General Fund budget, including projections of the
outlook, strategy, tuition and appropriation assumptions.
*  Review, as needed, the strategy, operating and capital plans of
major auxiliary units, business units or affiliates (e.g., the
Hospitals and Health Centers, the Life Sciences Institute, the
University of Michigan Press, the Department of Intercollegiate
Athletics, M-CARE, etc.).
*  Review capital needs and the related debt program, including its
capacity, structure, policies and strategy.
*  Review tax compliance and exposure management.
B. Audit Responsibilities
The following are the audit responsibilities of the FAI Committee,
which may be modified or supplemented as appropriate:
* Be directly responsible for the appointment, compensation and
retention of the University's independent auditor, and evaluate
annually the qualifications and performance of the independent
auditors; ensure the independent auditor assigns the appropriate
industry experts to the audit engagement; and give the
independent auditor direct access to the FAI Committee.


272




February Meeting, 2005 - Appendix


* Review with the administration and the independent auditor
judgments about: the quality, not just the acceptability, of the
University's accounting principles; the consistency in the
application  of accounting policies; the reasonableness of
significant judgments; the  degree  of aggressiveness  or
conservatism in applying the accounting principles; and the
clarity and completeness of the financial statements and related
disclosures.
* Confirm with the administration and the independent auditor that
the annual financial statements disclose all material off-balance
sheet transactions, arrangements, obligations, and  other
relationships of the University with unconsolidated entities or
other persons, that may have a material current or future effect on
financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of
operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, capital resources, or
significant components of revenues or expenses.
* Review and approve the annual financial statements of the
University and the audit report on federal awards received by the
University as required by federal law or regulation, including
OMB Circular A-133.
SOn an annual basis, assess the independence of the independent
auditor by reviewing a letter issued by the independent auditor
under Independence Standards Board Standard No.l, or the
current industry standard, and discuss any relationships disclosed
that may impact auditor objectivity and independence.
SOn an annual basis, obtain a report from the independent auditor
regarding required communications under Statement of Auditing
Standards No. 61, as amended, or the then current industry
standard. Review with the independent auditor:
1) Any significant difficulties encountered during the course of
the audit, any restrictions on the scope of work or access to
required information, and any significant disagreements
among   management and    the  independent auditor in
connection with the preparation of the financial statements.
2) Any formal communications between the audit team and the
auditor's national office regarding auditing or accounting
issues.
3)  Any letters issued addressing internal controls, business
process improvements or other recommendations and the
schedule of unadjusted differences (if any) prepared by the
auditor.
4)  Important accounting policies and practices used by the
University, all alternative treatments of financial information
within  generally  accepted  accounting  principles, the
ramifications of the use of such alternative disclosures and
treatments, and the treatment preferred by the independent
auditor.
5) Developments and emerging issues in higher education
including ways to improve operations or business practices.
* The committee or its chair will pre-approve all audit and
non-audit services provided by the independent auditors. The
independent auditor is prohibited from performing the following
non-audit services:


273




February Meeting, 2005 - Appendix


1) Bookkeeping
2) Financial information systems design, implementation or
operation
3)   Appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or
contribution-in-kind reports
4) Actuarial services
5) Internal audit outsourcing services
6) Management functions or human resources
7) Broker or dealer, investment advisor, or investment banking
services
8) Legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit
9) Preparing the indirect cost proposal or cost allocation plan
10)   Other services that would violate the U.S. General
Accounting Office Independence Standard, or the then
current standard.
Services approved by the chair of the FAI Committee should be
reported to the committee at its next scheduled meeting.
"  Ensure proper rotation of the lead and concurring audit partners
of the University's engagement.
"  Review new and significant accounting pronouncements, and
understand their impact on the University's financial statements.
"  Review compliance with governmental laws and regulations as it
relates to the audit.
0  Obtain and review an annual internal control certification letter
signed by appropriate University personnel.
"  Review and appraise the organizational structure, adequacy of
resources, qualifications, independence and activities of the
University's internal audit department.
"  Review and approve the internal audit plan.
"  Review  and concur with the appointment, compensation,
reassignment or termination of the executive director of
University audits.
"  Review periodically the University's Internal Audit charter for
necessary changes.
"  Receive a summary of findings from completed internal audits
and the status of implementing related recommendations.
"  Receive a progress report on the internal audit plan, with
explanations for any deviations from the original plan.
* Review the University's procedures for the receipt, retention, and
treatment  of  complaints  regarding  accounting,  internal
accounting controls or auditing matters, including procedures for
the confidential, anonymous submission by employees of
concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters.
Review the president's travel and hosting expenses and those of
any family members. Review and approve policies governing


274




February Meeting, 2005 - Appendix


loans to employees of the University and receive reports on at
least a quarterly basis of all such loans granted.
"  Review  with appropriate University personnel, the internal
auditor, and the independent auditor the significant financial,
operational, compliance and reputational risks facing the
University. These risks are defined as follows:
1) Financial - Loss of assets or resources. This includes the
reliability of the University's internal and external reporting.
2) Operational - Effectiveness and efficiency of the University's
operations and use of resources.
3) Compliance - Compliance with laws and regulations as well
as compliance with University policies and procedures
relating to auditing.
4) Reputational - Risks that affect the University's reputation
and public relations matters.
Assess the steps the University has taken to mitigate such risks or
exposures.
0  Obtain reports concerning any financial fraud resulting in losses
in excess of $10,000 or involving University officers, deans or
vice presidents.
"  Provide oversight regarding the University's conflict of interest
and code of conduct policies and related procedures.
"  Review and assess the adequacy of this Charter on a three-year
basis or more frequently if deemed necessary.
The  above-described  audit responsibilities supplement the  audit
responsibilities of the executive vice president and chief financial
officer, the executive director of University audits, and ultimately the
president, who are responsible for, among other things, planning or
conducting  audits or determining that the University's financial
statements are complete, accurate and in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. These officers are also responsible for
the preparation, presentation, and integrity of the University's financial
statements and for the appropriateness of the accounting principles and
reporting policies used by the University. Independent auditors retained
by the University are responsible for auditing the University's financial
statements.
C. Investment Responsibilities
The following are the investment responsibilities of the FAI Committee,
which may be modified or supplemented as appropriate:
* Review investment policies including investment goals, model
asset  allocation,  distribution  policies  and  performance
benchmarks.
* Review investment costs, including cost of internal management,
fees to outside managers, custodial, reporting and brokerage fees.
* Review performance of investments compared to relevant
benchmarks or indices.
IV. Resources and Authority


275




February Meeting, 2005 - Appendix


The FAI Committee may investigate any matter brought to its attention with full
access to all books, records, facilities, and personnel of the University. The FAI
Committee may engage independent counsel and other advisors as it determines
necessary to carry out its duties at University expense.
V. Adoption of Charter
The Board of Regents has adopted this charter on February 17, 2005.


276




MARCH MEETING, 2005


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, March 17, 2005
The Regents convened at 2:00 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, and Richner.
Also present were Provost Courant, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President
Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice President May, Chancellor
Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice President Slottow, Vice President
Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regent White participated by telephone; Regent
Taylor was absent.
Call to Order
President Coleman called the meeting to order and noted that the agenda includes the
proposed schematic design for the Walgreen Drama Center, which includes the Arthur
Miller Theatre. She noted that a groundbreaking ceremony for this building, including a
memorial celebration for Arthur Miller, would be scheduled for the fall. She also
commented about an event scheduled for April 12, 2005, commemorating the 50th
anniversary of the polio vaccine and noted that at this event, the first Dr. Thomas Francis,
Jr., Medal for Global Health will be awarded to Dr. William Foege.
President Coleman reported that in response to concerns that have been raised
regarding challenges to the legality of the University's same sex domestic partner
benefits, the University remains committed to an inclusive community and will defend
vigorously any challenges to its benefit plan. President Coleman also commented on
the recent announcement by Provost Courant that he planned to step down from his
position at the expiration of his term in August. She praised Provost Courant's
guidance, and vision and the broad contributions he made during his tenure as provost.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that
throughout the year, the committee would continue to follow the work plan outlined in its
recently adopted charter. He listed the major topics considered at today's meeting, which
included an update by Provost Courant and Associate Provost Hanlon on the General
Fund budget and a bimonthly internal audit update by Carol Senneff, executive director of
internal audits. Regent Brandon said that the committee had also met privately with Ms.
Senneff to determine whether she was receiving appropriate support and cooperation from
University staff, and she assured them that this was the case.
Other topics covered by the committee included meetings with internal audit,
financial operations staff and external auditors from PricewaterhouseCoopers on
followup issues pertaining to the FY 04 audit. The committee also received an update
on progress being made regarding the Sarbanes-Oxley gap analysis and implementation
plan. He noted that the committee and the Board are committed to monitoring carefully
the rules and requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley legislation and expect to have "best in


277




March leeting, 2005


class" practices related to governance controls and accounting controls. The committee
reviewed with internal audit, financial operations staff, and the external auditors some
of the highest priority tasks in terms of progress in implementation. He noted that good
progress is being made towards meeting the Board's timelines and objectives in
becoming Sarbanes-Oxley compliant and in being good stewards of the University's
financial assets.
Personnel Compensation and Governance Committee.      Regent Maynard
reported that in keeping with the committee's new name and with the governance
component of its charter, the entire board had read the book, Governance as
Leadership, by Richard P. Tait, William P. Ryan, and Barbara E. Taylor (New Jersey,
John Wiley & Sons, 2005). The committee spent the majority of its time discussing this
book and preparing for future discussions with the entire board regarding how the work
of the Regents can be reframed to become even more effective and productive.
Members were also updated by the provost on ongoing dean searches.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Krislov, acting as vice president and secretary of the
University, submitted for approval the minutes of the meeting of February 17, 2005.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report, the
Plant Extension Report, and the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report.
Litigatigon Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of projects
established, February 1-February 28, 2005. In response to a question from Regent
Maynard, Vice President Ulaby noted that due to a different reporting system, the
number of awards appears to be down compared to last year, but this is not the case. He
said that the more significant figure, expenditures, is up 7.1% compared to the same
period last year, and this is a positive result
University of Michigan  ealth System.   Executive Vice President Kelch
announced that the Health System had recently been notified by Solecint, an
organization that does benchmarking for more than 6,000 hospitals across the country,
that it is on the top 100 list. The top 100 listing includes only 13 university medical
centers. The organization bases its ranking system on clinical outcomes, patient safety,
operational efficiency, financial results, and service to the community.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper provided information about
the "Alternative Spring Break" program, a student initiated and coordinated program
that provides a week-long service experience in a number of locales across the United
States focusing on education, training, and social responsibility. She noted that
Michigan's is the largest program of this type in the country and about 350 students
participated this year.
Vice President Harper also pointed out that this would be the last meeting in which
Jason Mironov would be participating as president of the Michigan Student Assembly.
She praised the leadership he has provided during the past year, noted that "he
exemplifies the very best in our students in terms of scholarship, leadership, and
service," and thanked him for his contributions.


278




March Meeting, 2005


iversity of Michigan-Dearborn.         Chancellor Little called attention to a
recommendation to change the name of the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Student
Affairs to the Office of the Vice Chancellor for Enrollment Management and Student
Life and for appointing Stanley E. Henderson to that position. He also commented on a
recent "Conversation on Race" that had occurred on campus.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas noted that the kickoff event for
the Flint Campus's capital campaign, "Imagine:       The UM-Flint Difference," is
scheduled for April 16, 2005.
Michigan. Student Assembly Report. Jason Mironov, president of MSA, said
that when he was first elected, he had decided one of the goals he had set for his
presidency would be to make MSA more credible, both within the Board and the
administration, and within the student body. He called attention to several examples of
issues that had arisen within MSA in which students had decided to follow an existing
University process for dealing with highly-charged issues and that illustrated that much
of this goal had been accomplished.
Mr. Mironov thanked Vice President Harper and other administrators for their
efforts and assistance during the past year. He then addressed the board with a personal
statement of how much his experience at the University of Michigan has meant to him.
A round of applause followed.
Voluntary Support. Vice President May submitted the Report of Voluntary
Support for February 2005.
Accenture Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for employee  matching  gifts..................................................  $50,265
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for the Computer Science and Engineering Building Fund in the College of Engineering... 25,000
Advanced Risc Machines, Ltd., Cambridge, England
for research  in the College of Engineering........................................ 39,403
Allergan Pharmaceuticals, Irvine, California
for research  in  the  M edical School.............................................. 71,875
Alliance of Automobile Manufactures, Inc., Washington, D. C.
for support in the Transportation Research Institute............................... 497,500
Robert I. Alpern, Bloomfield Hills
4,000 shares of Commercial Federal Corporation common stock
for the Marge and Robert Alpern Funds in the Medical School....................... 109,660
Alzheimer's Disease Research, Rockville, Maryland
for research  in the College of Pharmacy.......................................... 12,500
American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry Educational Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the  School of Dentistry........................................... 10,500
American Council of Learned Studies, New York, New York
for fellowships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 30,000
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School............................................. 207,763
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, Rockville, Maryland
for fellowships in the College of Pharmacy....................................... 12,000
Amenican Society of Clinical Oncology, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School............................................ 17,500
American Society for Gastrointestinal Endosc~opy, Manchester, Massachusetts
for research in the Medic~al School............................................ 37,500
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for fellowships and other suppor in the Medical ScThool............................ 11,000
Analog Devices, Norwood, Massachusetts
for research in the College of Engineering...................................... 50,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Gerald R. Ford Sc~hool of Public Policy.......................... 100,000


279




March Meeting, 2005


Anonymous Donor
for support in the Museum of Zoology........................................ 50,000
April Restaurants, LLC, Totowa, New Jersey
for the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Scholarship for Business Students in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business...................................... 25,000
Aronoff Foundation, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Medical School............................................. 25,000
Lewis B. Becker, Palm Desert, California
for the Lewis and Lillian Becker Professorship Fund in the Medical School............ 500,000
Benedek Family Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Barbara and Peter Benedek Dean's Merit Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 12,500
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Inc., Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship in t
he College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 52,500
Mandell L. and Madeleine H. Berman Foundation, Southfield
for the Drachler Educational Travel Fund in the School of Social Work................. 15,000
A. G. Bishop Charitable Trust
for the University Outreach Program Development Efforts Fund at
the University of Michigan-Flint........................................... 10,000
BMW, AG., Muenchen, Germany
for support in the Transportation Research Institute.............................. 15,000
George H. Boyce, Kingsford
600 shares of Sysco Corporation common stock
for the Dr. George H. Boyce Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the University  of Michigan.................................................... 20,892
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................... 65,000
Carnegie Corporation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the School of Education........................................... 24,800
Cohn Family Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation Philanthropic Fund,
Bloomfield Hills
for the Preventive Cardiology Research Fund in the Medical School................... 10,000
Mary Sue Coleman, Ann Arbor
for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Fund in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
for the Leslie Kish International Fellows Fund in the Institute for Social Research,
for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Life Science Fund,
for the Museum of Art Building Project,
for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Undergraduate Fund, and
for the Trotter House................................................ 15,000
Comerica Charitable Foundation, Detroit
for the Heinz C. Prechter Bipolar Research Fund in the Medical School................ 10,000
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for the Minority Student Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint........... 79,255
Conrad Charitable Foundation, Northville
for scholarships at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............................ 15,500
Consortium for Graduate Study, Saint Louis, Missouri
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............................. 13,088
Jane Wilson Coon Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics,
for the William W. Coon, M.D. Surgery Oncology Patient Care Fund in the Medical School, and
for the Student Achievement Award Fund in the School of Nursing................... 10,804
DaimlerChrysler Corporation, Auburn Hills
for support in the College of Engineering,
for the Associates Program in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business, and
for scholarships at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................... 29,500
Helen Davis Charitable Lead Trust
for the Hal and Ann Davis Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the University Musical Society.......................................... 51,000
DCES Educational Services, Canton
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering...................... 16,000
John Deere Foundation, Moline, Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering.................................... 75,000
Dorothy B. Dickens Estate
for research in the Medical School............................................ 12,500


280




March Meeting, 2005


Henry S. and Mala Dorfman Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Henry and Mala Dorfman Family Expendable Professorship in
the Medical School...................................................100,000
Dorfman Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Dorfman Family Endowed Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearbornm.........20,000
Michelle Adams Duffett, Geneva, Illinois
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics..................... 10,800
Elkes Foundation, Rye, New York
for the Elkes Fund for Faculty Excellence in the Law School........................ 250,000
Pamela Esser, Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Medical School, in memory of Dr. Joel A. Kahn.................... 10,000
Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc., New Brunswick, New Jersey
for the MBA Domestic Corps in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............... 16,000
Frederick L. Feldkamp, Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics..................... 11,200
Flint Ink Corporation, Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 17,900
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 141,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................ 62,154
Foundation for Digestive Health and Nutrition, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the  M edical School..............................................33,750
Maxine and Stuart Frankel Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the  University  M usical Society.............................................. 10,000
Samuel and Jean Frankel Foundation, Troy
for the Judaic Studies Director's Discretionary Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 10,000
Fraternal Order of Eagles 3996, Belleville
for the University of Michigan Children's Cancer Fund in the Medical School............10,000
Frey Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy...................25,000
Kerry A. Galvin, Houston, Texas
for support in  the  Law  School.................................................  20,000
Warren E. Gast, Saint Joseph
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics and
for the Class of 1953 Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering.................. 11,400
General Motors Corporation, Phoenix, Arizona
for research  in the College  of Engineering........................................ 25,000
GLS Memorial Fund, New York, New York
for the Richards, Polatsch & Weingard Memorial Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 100,000
Gould-Shenfield Family Foundation, Great Neck, New York
for the Gould Shenfield Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 350,000
Howard and Elizabeth Gourwitz Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Carnegie Hall Program and the Athletics Bands Fund in the School of Music...... 17,500
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in the School of Education......................................... 328,364
J. Ira and Nicki Harris Foundation, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Benny Friedman Fellowship in Sports in
the Horace H. Rackham  School of Graduate Studies................................10,000
Tarek S. Hassan, Ann Arbor
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics..................... 21,700
James C. Hays, Roswell, Georgia
for the Class of 1977 Scholarship Fund in the Medical School........................ 10,000
HCA Foundation, Nashville, Tennessee
for the Harold and Vivian Shapiro Undergraduate Librar Fund in
the University Library..................................................... 15,000
HSBC Bank USA, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts................................................ 14,900
Integrated Health Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Children's Hospital Building Fund...................................... 10,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the College of Engineering...................................... 85,500
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for support in the College of Engineering...................................... 90,000


281




Marc reecting, 205


James R. Irwin, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics and
for the Clements Librar.................................................... 20,000
William Jakinovich Estate
for support at the University of Michigan..................................... 176,625
Janus Capital Group, Stuart, Florida
for employee matching gifts................................................ 20,000
Johnson. & Johnson Family of Companies, Skillman, New Jersey
for emp loyee matching gifts................................................ 14,120
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the School of Public Health and.
the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.................................... 374,368
Kaydon, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Music and
for the University Musical Society............................................ 40,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the Child and Family Life Fund in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital............... 14,852
Knight Foundation., Miami, Florida
for the Michigan Journalism Fellow Program in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............................1,1000000
Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, Dallas, Texas
-for the University of Mic'higan Breast Fellowship Program in the Medical Sctool and
for the 2005 International Symposium on. Breast Canc'er in the School. of Nursing......... 53,000
Emily Koulogeorge, Northbrook, Illinois
for the Emily Koulogeorge Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy................... 10,000
William E. M. Lands, Berkeley Springs, West Virginia
for the William E. M. Lands Lectureship in the Medical Sctool...................... 15,000
Jeffrey R. Lees, White Plains, Newv York
2.,007 shares of JP Morgan Chase and Company common stock
for the Jeffrey R. and Joan Leeds Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................. 78,44
Leukemnia and Lymphoma Society, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................ 57,500
Jerr W. Levin, New York, New York
for the Computer Science and Engineering Building Fund and other support in
the College of Engineering............................................... 2,200,000
Eli Lilly and Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Eli Lilly PhD Fellowvship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 50,000
Susan Liss, Chev Chase, Maryland
for the Michigan in Washington Program in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 20,000
Molly Parnis Livingston Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.............................. 40,25
M-Den, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Children's Hospital. Building Fund...................................... 93,500
Masc'o Coiporation, Taylor
for emp loyee matching gifts................................................ 18,555
Michelle Coleman Mayes, Stamford., Connectic~ut
for the Alden J. (Butch) Caipenter Law Memorial Fund in the Law School.............. 10,000
Ralph L. Mc'Cornmick, Palos Verdes Peninsula, California
for the Ralph L. Mctormick Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Engineering................................................. 20,000
Melanie S. Mt~ray Estate
for the University Musical Society............................................ 20,000
Nancy S. McLelland, Berwyn, Pennsylvania
for scholarships in theDepartment of1thltican


282




Marc reecting, 205


Merck and Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey
for the W. R. Roush Department Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and. the Arts... 25,000
Joel S. Mindel, New York, New York
600 shares of Citigroup, Inc., common stock for research in the Medical Sctool.......... 29,520
Mitchell and Diane Mondry Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation of
Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Mitchell A. Mondr Entrepreneurial Scholarship in
the Stephen. M. Ross School. of Business....................................... 10,000
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
600 shares of The Coca-Cola Company common stock
for the Junge Family Champions Center in the Department of Athletic's................ 26,190
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research. in the Medic'al School............................................ 20,069
Myron J. Nadler, Delray Beach, Florida
for the Myron J. Nadler Fund, in the Law School................................ 100,000
National Cancer Prevention Fund, Denver, Colorado
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................. 64,917
National City Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the Department of Athletics and
for Special Exhibition support in the Museum of Art.............................. 15,800
Priscilla B. Neel, Ann Arbor
for the Jamnes V. Neel. Fellowship Fund in. the Medical. Sctool.......................I1.2,000
Northwestern. Mutual Life Foundation,1 Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for employee matcThing gifts................................................ 10,925
Paul and. Nancy O'Neill Foundation, Clifton Park, New York
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy................. 250,000
Phyllis M. Ocker, Ellensburg, Washington
for the Phyllis Ocker Athletic Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............... 18,000
Sally A. and Graham A. Orley Foundation, Troy
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics.................... 19,500
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for support in the School. of Public Health...................................... 50,000
Jeffery K. Parsigian, Grosse Pointe
for the Rober and Rose Parsigian Fund....................................... 250,000
Pfizer,, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Graduate Student Internship Program and other support in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens........................................... 47,693
Lucian J. Philion Estate
for chemistr support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 12,000
Nancy S. Pickus, Saline
-for the Alber and Nancy Pickus General. Athletic Scholarship in.
the Department of Athletics................................................. 30,000
Piety Hill Chapter 4-044 Michigan, Birmingham
for undergraduate student aid in the School of Nursing............................. 10,000
Donald E. Pollard, Rye, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Scienc'e, and the Arts....................... 10,000
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the University Musical Society............................................ 30,000
ProQuest, Ann Arbor
for support in the Horace H. Ra 'kham School. of Graduate Studies...................1.0,000
Prostate Cancer Foundation., Santa Monic~a, California
for research in the Medical School........................................... 100,000
James A. Read, Riverside, Connecticut
for support of women's lacrosse in the Department of Athletics...................... 10,000
Redlich Horwitz Foundation, Saddle River, New Jersey
JessieRidley1FoundaTion, "Inc, e.Yr, tNew1 York


283




March Meeting, 2005


Margaret Sokol, New York, New York
for the Margaret and Herman Sokol Faculty Award in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and
for the Sokol Graduate Fellowship and the Mastodon Project in the Exhibit Museum in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 101,000
Soros Fund Charitable Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts................................................ 10,000
Speckhard-Knight Charitable Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Speckhard-Knight Fetal Alcohol Syndrome Fund in the Medical School.......... 30,000
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, D. C.
for research in the Division of Kinesiology.................................... 33,750
David J. Sprecher, Okemos
for the Kristi Sprecher Memorial Fund......................................... 25,000
Laurie M. Staples Irrevocable Administrative Trust
for the A. Regula Herzog Young Investigators Fund,
for the Michigan Program Survey Methodology Discretionary Fund,
for the Leslie Kish International Fellows Fund, and
for the Charles Cannell Fund in Survey Methodology in the Institute for Social Research... 40,000
Edna M. Stark Trust
for the Gladys D. and Walter R. Stark Graduate Fellowship in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
for the Stark Dean's Merit Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 605,461
Waldo D. Sturm, Pigeon
for the Sturm Family Endowment Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 100,000
Sunrise Advertising, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio
for WUOM.............................................................. 10,200
Target Corporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Associates Program and the Women's Initiative in Leadership Program in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business...................................... 24,250
A. Alfred Taubman Revocable Trust
for the Alfred Taubman Scholarship....................................... 19,723
Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, New York, New York
for the University Musical Society............................................ 20,000
Team Beans, LLC, East Brunswick, New Jersey
for the Children's Hospital Building Fund..................................... 12,108
Terumo Cardiovascular Systems Corporation, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics and
for research in the Medical School............................................ 250,800
John C. Tonkin, Ormond Beach, Florida
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics.................... 10,150
John R. and Georgene M. Tozzi Foundation, Ross, California
for the Computer Executive Education Building Tozzi Center Fund in
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..................................... 500,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for electrical and computer engineering support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.... 30,000
University of Michigan Alumni Club of Lansing, Lansing
for the Greater Lansing Area Alumnae Club Scholarship........................... 11,000
Union Pacific Foundation, Omaha, Nebraska
for the MBA Domestic Corps in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.............. 32,000
Ann T. Van Rosevelt, Ann Arbor
1,178 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock
for the Kelsey Museum Expansion Project...................................... 50,253
Peter M. Wege, Grand Rapids
for the CSS Wege Environmental Educational Program in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment............................. 25,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for the MBA Domestic Corps in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.............. 32,000
Barbara E. Whitman, Larchmont, New York
910 shares of Nabors Industries Ltd., common stock
for the Carlyon Whitman Dean's Scholarship Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................. 51,524
Elizabeth Ruthruff Wilson Foundation, Tecumseh
for scholarships in the Center for the Education of Women and
for the Marilyn Mason Scholarship in Organ and other support in the School of Music..... 15,000
Ronald Winter, Ossineke
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics..................... 19,800


284




March Meeting, 2005


Robert L. Wood, Roxbury, Connecticut
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics........................... 33,333
Zoe Foundation for Infusion Art Therapy, Dexter
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 15,000
Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:


American Association of University Women, Ann
Arbor
Aisin World Corporation of America, Plymouth
Anastasios Alexiou, Ann Arbor
Alro Steel Corporation, Jackson
Ann Arbor Automotive Group ELC, LLC, Ann
Arbor
Manuel J. Asensio III, Columbus, Ohio
Auto Club Group, Dearborn
Leonard J. Baxt, Washington, D. C.
Berghorst Foundation, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware
Borg-Wamer Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Buchanan & Beckering, Grand Rapids
Victoria R. Buckler, Ann Arbor
David M. Bugajski, Chatham, New Jersey
Buhr Foundation, Ann Arbor
Samuel M. Callan, Saline
Wendy Will Case Cancer Fund, Inc., Chicago,
Illinois
Clark Hill, Detroit
Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America, Inc.,
New York, New York
Thomas D. Cusick, Jr., Wilton, Connecticut
D. and P. Curtis Trust
Michael C. DiGiovanni, Farmington Hills
E. I. DuPont DeNemours & Company,
Wilmington, Delaware
Robert A. Epstein, Bloomfield Hills
John K. Fischer, Livonia
Russell H. Fiske, Sr. Estate
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
William B. Ginsberg, New York, New York
John J. Gordon, Bloomington, Illinois
Group Associates, Inc., Southfield
Kalvin M. Grove, Saint Petersburg, Florida
Frank Hamilton, Birmingham
Harbor Capital Advisors, Inc., Toledo, Ohio
Harness, Dickey & Pierce PLC, Troy


HFF Foundation, West Bloomfield
Michael S. Hokin, Scarsdale, New York
David L. Huntoon, Ann Arbor
Andrew G. Hurst, Boca Raton, Florida
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
Jewish Federation of Washtenaw County, Ann
Arbor
J. Christopher Kantgias, Birmingham
L. S. B. Leakey Foundation, Oakland, California
Annette M. Lockwood, Fairfax Station, Virginia
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
M & L Online, LLC, Farmington Hills
HMJS Marks Fund, Washington, D. C.
McMullen Realty Company, Inc., Ann Arbor
Thomas H. Meyer, Tecumseh
Mika, Meyers, Beckett & Jones, Grand Rapids
Julia S. Morris, Ann Arbor
U. E. Patrick, Jackson
PSP Ventures II, LLC, Bingham Farms
Renton Family Foundation of the Fidelity
Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston,
Massachusetts
Schlumberger, Sugar Land, Texas
Katherine Collier Schotten, Ann Arbor
Charles E. Schultz, Jacksonville, Arkansas
Paul F. Sefcovic, Columbus, Ohio
Marsha Sugarman, Brookline, Massachusetts
Robert A. Toigo Foundation, Oakland, California
Towers Perrin, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Alston K. Twiss Family Charitable Fund of the
Vanguard Charitable Endowment Program,
Southeastern, Pennsylvania
Terrence M. Walsh, Lake Forest, Illinois
Tom M. Walworth, Jr., Grosse Pointe Farms
Gerald A. Weber, Chicago, Illinois
Weiermiller Family Fund of the Ayco Charitable
Foundation, Clifton Park, New York
Richard P. Whitker Charitable Remainder Unitrust


The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Patricia G. England, Washington, D. C.
a collection of miniature books, artist's books, and other materials for the University Library
Charles A. Lowenhaupt, Saint Louis, Missouri
a complete set of CCH tax reports from 1916 for the Law School
Comments from Regent McGowan. Regent McGowan thanked Provost Courant
for the "great many years of hard work, expertise, and excellence as both associate
provost and provost." She said she was glad he would now have an opportunity to
return to the faculty and pursue his personal academic interests. She commented that
Provost Courant "has helped set the standard for what we expect and what we receive
from the provost," and she thanked him for his dedicated service.
Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions. He
called attention to the recommendation for the appointment of James Hilton as interim
University librarian, replacing the current University librarian, William Gosling, who is


285




March Meeting, 2005


stepping down to return to his previous position in the library. Provost Courant praised
the leadership that Mr. Gosling has provided for the past seven years and noted that "we
could not have been better served."
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Larson, Ronald G., Chair, Department of Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2005-August 31, 2008
McCormack, Bridget M., Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs, Law School, April 1, 2005-March 31, 2007
Seiford, Lawrence M., Chair, Department of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2008
Washington, Daniel A., Associate Dean of Minority Services, School of Music, June 1, 2005-May 31,
2008
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective April 1, 2005-March 31, 2008
Cabana, Michael D., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical
School, also appointed Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, without
tenure, School of Public Health
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing a Named Professorship
Marion and David Handleman Research Professorship in Vascular Surgery, Medical School, March 17, 2005
Renamin gExisting Collegiate Professorsh ip
James V. Neel Collegiate Professorship in Human Genetics, Medical School, March 17, 2005
E. Benjamin Wylie Collegiate Professorship in Civil Engineering, College of Engineering, March 1, 2005
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
ArPointment to a Named Professorshi)
Talbot, Frederick Brian, David B. Hermelin Professor of Business Administration, Stephen M. Ross
School of Business, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2009
Other Transactions
From Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs to Vice Chancellor for Enrollment Management and Student
Life, University of Michigan-Dearborn, April 1, 2005
Gaines, Kevin K., Director, Center for Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, April 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Henderson, Stanley E., Vice Chancellor for Enrollment Management and Student Life, University of
Michigan-Dearborn, April 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Hilton, James L., Interim University Librarian, University Library, April 1, 2005
Jackson, James S., Director, Institute for Social Research, April 1, 2005-June 30, 2010 (previously
reported as July 1, 2005-June 30, 2010)
Effective March 1-October 1, 2005
School of Dentistry Executive Committee
Eber, Robert M., retroactive, vice Paul H. Krebsbach, unable to complete term due to administrative
appointment
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel reports.


286




March Meeting, 2005


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Blondy, Laurie C., J.D., Clinical Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, January 1-April 30, 2005
Dev, Leena S., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
February 7, 2005-February 6, 2006
Gregory, Lynn A., M.S.N., Clinical Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, January 1-May 31, 2005
Haehl, Victoria, Ph.D., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, January 1-April 30, 2005
Han, Yong Y., M.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
February 1, 2005-January 31, 2006
Ludsin, Michelle L., M.S.N., Clinical Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, January 1-April 30, 2005
Maxwell, Scott E., M.S.E. Lecturer in Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Nanos, John I., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
February 1-April 30, 2005
Sensale, Lisa M., B.A., Lecturer in Education, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Smith, Kevin R., A.B., Lecturer in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 26-April 30, 2005
Teachout, Reta J., Ph.D., Lecturer in Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Visvatti, Moira A. Kirvan, M.S.N., Clinical Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, January 1-April 30, 2005
Yancho, Mari S., M. Mus., Lecturer in Music and Art, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Young, Matthew A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, Medical School,
January 1, 2005-December 31, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Aronoff, David, from Clinical Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
January 15, 2005-January 14, 2009
Bergeron, Suzanne L., Assistant Professor of Social Sciences also appointed Assistant Professor of
Women's Studies, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
September 1, 2004-April 31, 2005
Krukonis, Eric S., Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School, also appointed
Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Miller, Bruce S., from Clinical Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School,
February 1-May 31, 2005
Newton, Duane W., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School, also appointed Assistant
Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, January 1, 2005-December 31, 2007
Soter, Gina M., Lecturer III in Classical Studies also appointed Lecturer III in the Residential College,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Bashshur, Rashid L., Professor Emeritus of Health Management and Policy, School of Public Health,
January 1-December 31, 2005
Friedman, David I., Professor Emeritus of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2005
Kammash, Terry, Stephen S. Attwood Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Nuclear
Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of Engineering, January 1-April 30, 2005
Karnopp, Bruce H., Associate Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1-April 30, 2005
Lockery, Shirley A., Associate Professor Emerita of Social Work, School of Social Work,
January 1-December 31, 2005
Pandit, Sujit K., Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2005


287




March Meeting, 2005


Port, Friedrich K., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, and Professor Emeritus of
Epidemiology, School of Public Health, March 1, 2005-February 28, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Adams, Fred C., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Andre, Naomi A., Associate Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Askew, Kelly M., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Afro-American and African Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Bazzi, Ali A.H., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2005
Benamou, Catherine L., Associate Professor of Film and Video Studies, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of American Culture, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Bornstein, George J., C. A. Patrides Collegiate Professor of English and Professor of English Language
and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 2005
Bushman, Brad J., Professor of Communication Studies, with tenure, and Professor of Psychology,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Chadiha, Letha, Associate Profesor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, extended sick
leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Charles, Kerwin K., Associate Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Policy, and Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, outside teaching leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Coronil, Fernando, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2005
Cotera, Maria E., Assistant Professor of Latino Studies and Assistant Professor of Women's Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Crane, Gregg D., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Deyoung, Sandra M. T., Assistant Professor of Dance, School of Music, extended sick leave,
January 28-March 14, 2005
Dignas, Beate D., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Eschrich, Gabriella M., Associate Professor of French, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2005
Evrard, August, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Fink, John F., Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2005
Gaggio, Dario, Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Gerdes, David W., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Gregerson, Linda K., Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor and Professor of English, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Harris, Craig, Professor of Toxicology, with tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Hart, Janet C., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, extended sick leave, December 5, 2004-May 31, 2005
Hoft, Margret H., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences and
Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2005
Hsu, Jenny N., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, extended sick leave,
December 3, 2004-January 16, 2005, and child care leave, January 17-Feburary 27, 2005
Karlsen, Carol F., Associate Professor of History and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Karni, Smadar, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004


288




March Meeting, 2005


Kling, George W., III, Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Koreeda, Masato, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,and
Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, without tenure, College of Pharmacy, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2005
Lange, Rebecca A., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Lee, Ching K., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Levine, Daniel H., James Orin Murfin Professor of Political Science and Professor of Political Science,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Lin, Paul K. H., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2005
Lorenzon, Wolfgang B., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Ludwig, Martha L., J. Lawrence Oncley Distinguished University Professor of Biological Chemistry and
Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2004-Feburary 28, 2005
MacDonald, Michael P., Richard Hudson Research Professor of History and Professor of History, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Marcus, Joyce, Elman R. Service Collegiate Professor of Cultural Evolution and Professor of
Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2005
Miller, Joshua L., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Milroy, Ann L., Hans Kurath Collegiate Professor of Linguistics and Professor of Linguistics, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Mitani, John G., James N. Spuhler Collegiate Professor of Anthropology and Professor of Anthropology,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Mitchell, Michele, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Afro-American and African Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Mizruchi, Mark S., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Business Administration, without tenure, Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Morantz-Sanchez, Regina, Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Morenoff, Jeffrey D., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Murphy, Troy A., Associate Professor of Communications, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2005
Perry, Mark J., Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Finance, with
tenure, School of Management, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Razack, Nasser, Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, personal leave,
February 11, 2005-February 10, 2006
Riles, John K., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Salesa, Damon I., Assistant Professor of History and Assistant Professor of American Culture, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Santo-Tomas, Enrique Garcia, Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Saxonhouse, Arlene W., Professor of Political Science and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Shaout, Adnan K., Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2005
Sinopoli, Carla M., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-December 31, 2004, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Smith, Jan W., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, extended sick leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Snabb, Thomas E., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Stillman, Amy K., Associate Professor of American Culture, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Sun, Eleanor Y., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, extended sick leave,
January 4-Feburary 15, 2005, and child care leave, February 16-March 16, 2005


289




March Meeting, 2005


Taylor, B. Alan, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Traugott, Michael W., Professor of Communication Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Ugboma, Stella A., Clinical Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, personal leave,
January 5, 2005-January 4, 2006
Vaillant, Derek W., Associate Professor of Communication Studies, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Velleman, J. David, G.E.M. Anscombe Collegiate Professor of Philosophy, James B. and Grace J. Nelson
Professor of Philosophy, and Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Wasserman, Arthur G., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Yan, Zhaoxu, Assistant Professor of Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Yocum, Charles F., Alfred S. Sussman Distinguished University Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and
Developmental Biology, Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, with
tenure, and Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Zaborowska, Magdalena J., Associate Professor of American Culture, without tenure, and Associate
Professor of Afro-American and African Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Zemgulys, Andrea P., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Zhang, Youxue, Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Zint, Michaela T., Associate Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, with tenure, School of
Natural Resources and Environment, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
CANCELLATIONS OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Canning, Kathleen M., Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor of Women's Studies, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Shaout, Adnan K., Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College
of Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2004
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Deceased
Faeth, Gerard M., Arthur B. Modine Distinguished University Professor of Aerospace Engineering,
Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Mechanical Engineering,
without tenure, May 1, 2005
Gomberg, Edith S., Professor Emerita of Psychology, Medical School, January 8, 2005
Ladu, Bert N., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School, January 30, 2005
Resigned
Brandt, Mary-Margaret, Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, January 31, 2005
Cronin, Simon M., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, February 5, 2005
Farjo, Qais A., Clinical Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
February 28, 2005
Raman, Kalyan, Professor of Marketing, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Management, January 23, 2005
Robbins, Lorraine B., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, December 31, 2004
Schneider, Monica P., Clinical Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, March 31, 2005
Sneider, Michael B., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, March 4, 2005
Taylor, Stephanie D., Assistant Professor of Social and Administrative Sciences, College of Pharmacy,
January 31, 2005
Alessi, Norman E., Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, without tenure, Medical School, March 25, 2005


290




March Meeting, 2005


Anderson, David J., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, and
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, and Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, Medical School, May 31, 2005
Haddad, George I., Robert J. Hiller Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of Engineering,
May 31, 2005
Houghton, Barbara P., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 2005
Silverman, Ronald E., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
May 31, 2005
Teorey, Toby J., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, May 31, 2005
Wall, Harriet M., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, May 31, 2005
CANCELLATIONS OF PREVIOUSLY
APPROVED APPOINTMENTS
Eklund, Susan M., Interim Dean of Students for Student Affairs, August 9, 2004
Follansbee, George L., Jr., Assistant Dean for Development and Alumni Relations, Law School,
March 1, 2004-February 28, 2007
Schuger, Lucia, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Professor of Pathology, without tenure,
Medical School, April 1, 2004
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Krislov, acting as vice president and
secretary of the University, submitted a memoir for one retiring faculty member.
Nallapu N. Reddy, Ph.D., professor of economics in the College of Arts and
Sciences at the University of Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on
December 31, 2004.
Professor Reddy received his B.S. degree from Michigan Technological University in
1961, his M.S. degree from the University of Missouri in 1963, his M.A. degree from the
University of Notre Dame in 1964, and his Ph.D. from The Pennsylvania State University in
1967. From 1967-74, he was an assistant professor and associate professor at Clarkson
University. He joined the University of Michigan-Flint faculty as an associate professor in
1974 and was promoted to professor in 1979.
Professor Reddy's major research interests include natural resources, energy, and
environmental economics. He has published many articles in these areas and presented
papers at regional, national, and international meetings.  With a strong interest in
international economics, he participated in the Salzburg Seminar in Austria and the
Comparative Economic Delegation to Russia and the Ukraine, and he served as a visiting
fellow at both Oxford University and the London School of Economics. Professor Reddy's
expertise and reputation led to several media invitations, including two thirty-minute
discussion programs on the ABC network.
During his tenure, Professor Reddy served the University with distinction. He was
chair of the economics department from 1981-84 and from 1993-2000, and he participated
on numerous committees including the Budget Priorities Committee, the Chancellor's
Advisory Committee, and the UM-Flint Graduate Board. He was also instrumental in
developing the honors program in economics.
The Regents now salute this distinguished economics educator for his dedicated
service by naming Nallapu N. Reddy professor emeritus of economics.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported this month.
Degrees. President Coleman submitted recommendations that honorary degrees
be awarded to the following individuals: Henry W. Bloch, business leader and
philanthropist, Doctor of Laws; John Seely Brown, computer scientist and former chief


291




March Meeting, 2005


scientist, Xerox Corporation, Doctor of Science; Mildred S. Dresselhaus, physicist,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Doctor of Science; Bruce McEwen,
neuroscientist, The Rockefeller University, Doctor of Science; Margaret Riecker,
philanthropist and trustee of the Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation and the
Herbert H. and Grace A. Dow Foundation, Doctor of Laws; and Glenn E. "Bo"
Schembechler, former football coach and athletic director, University of Michigan,
Doctor of Laws.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
The Regents then turned to consideration of the regular agenda. Regent Deitch
left the meeting at this point, at 2:50 p.m., and returned at 3:30 p.m. He did not
participate in the votes on any of the succeeding action items.
Alternative Asset Commitment (LBA Realty Fund II, L.P.)
Executive Vice President Slottow reported that a follow-on investment of $30
million had been made to LBA Realty Fund II, L.P.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Canyon-Johnson Urban Fund II, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved a commitment of $20 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Canyon-Johnson Urban Fund, II, L.P.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Cadent Energy Partners I, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a commitment of $10 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Cadent Energy Partners I, L.P.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Bridgepoint Europe III, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a commitment of up to ~20 million from the Long Term Portfolio
to Bridgepoint Europe III.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Ceyuan Ventures I, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved a commitment of up to $15.0 million from the Long Term
Portfolio to Ceyuan Ventures I, L.P.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved a commitment of $20.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia, L.P.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Global Catalyst Partners III, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $15.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio
to Global Catalyst Partners III, L.P.


292




March leeting, 2005


Chemistry Building Area Tunnel and Chamber Replacement
On a motion by Regent Richner, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the Chemistry Building Area Tunnel and Chamber Replacement
Project, as described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for
bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved
budget.
James B. Angell Hall Computing Center Heating, Ventilation, and Air
Conditioning Upgrades
On a motion by Regent Richner, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
approved the James B. Angell Hall Computing Center Heating, Ventilation, and Air
Conditioning Upgrades Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids
and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Walgreen Drama Center Project
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that the Walgreen Drama Center project had
been approved at the June 2004 meeting and Kuwabara Payne McKenna Blumberg
Architects (KPMB) had been appointed for its design. Subsequently, in February 2005,
the North Campus Auditorium project had been approved and the same architect
appointed. At that time, it was also determined that the most suitable location for the
auditorium would be to have it directly connected to the Walgreen Drama Center.
Approval is now being requested for a schematic design that would combine both
projects, which will from this point forward be considered as a single project known as
the Walgreen Drama Center Project. The combined project budget estimate is $42.8
million.
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that construction of this facility will
require the elimination of approximately 250 visitor and staff parking spaces. He
introduced Mr. Tom Payne, founding principle of KPMB, and Associate Vice President
Henry Baier.
Mr. Baier displayed a map illustrating existing parking spaces on the site. He
noted that a parking plan had been presented in 2003, and including spaces that have
been added since that time, 300 vacancies have been created in the parking lots on
North Campus. Once the three buildings currently under construction for the College of
Engineering are completed, and at the completion of construction for the Walgreen
Drama Center, 84 additional faculty and staff spaces will have been added to the North
Campus area. Parallel parking spaces are being added on Bonisteel Boulevard that will
be "blue" (faculty and staff) during the day, and "visitor" spaces after 5:00. Combined
with additional spaces that are being added by expanding the lot adjacent to the
Walgreen Drama Center, there will be about 330 vacant parking spaces when
construction is completed. He said that additional visitor parking spaces will be
distributed among the lots with vacancies to make up for any net losses at the Walgreen
Drama Center site. Special events parking would be accommodated in nearby parking
lots, and for large events, would be provided by shuttles or valet parking.
A discussion followed regarding the feasibility of adding more spaces closer to the
Walgreen Drama Center. Associate Vice President Baier stated that the parking master


293




March Mleeting, 2005


plan includes construction of a parking deck on North Campus, so continuing to expand
surface parking is not desirable from a land use planning perspective.  Regent
Newman pointed out that the number of spaces allotted would be insufficient to
accommodate an audience for a 250-seat performance. She said that taking shuttles to
and from remote lots is inconvenient and people tend to resist this approach.
Regents Newman and McGowan questioned why the proposed parking deck is
part of the long term plan and suggested that instead this be considered concurrent with
the present projects. Mr. Baier responded that the cash flow is currently insufficient to
fund a structure. However, he and Executive Vice President Slottow said that they
would examine the feasibility of constructing the parking structure sooner rather than
later.
Mr. Tom Payne, founding principal of KPMB, presented the schematic design for
the Walgreen Drama Center. He commented that he believes the site is the best
possible one for this project. He displayed a site map and noted that the building was
designed in anticipation of a parking structure and another major building to be located
nearby. He then displayed a drawing of the theatre and schematic designs of each floor
and described what each area what it would look like and how it would function. He
noted that the theatre itself would be a flexible courtyard theatre that could be
configured both in "end stage" (proscenium) format and in "thrust stage" format, with
seating on three sides and flexible seating on the orchestra level. The North Campus
auditorium would anchor the other end of the building. A flexible, simple loft-type
building would connect the two and serve both spaces.
He described how the design of the building shields it from the sun in the summer
but permits ample natural daylight to enter during the winter. He described the interior
and exterior finishes.
Regent McGowan moved approval of the schematic design for the Walgreen
Drama Center Project as presented at the meeting and authorization for issuing bids and
awarding construction contracts for early procurement packages. Regent Newman
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
School of Nursing Building Renovations to First Floor of North Wing
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the School of Nursing Building Renovations to First Floor of
North Wing Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Planned Uses of Income from the Julian A. Wolfson and Marguerite Wolfson
Endowment Funds for the Fiscal Year 2005-2006
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the planned uses of income from the Julian A. Wolfson and
Marguerite Wolfson Endowment Funds for the Fiscal Year 2005-2006, as described in the
Regents Communication.


294




March Meeting, 2005


University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Pediatric
Cardiology Sedation and Recovery Project
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) Pediatric Cardiology Sedation and Recovery Project as described and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that
bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Food Service
Equipment Replacement and Galley Renovation
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Food
Service Equipment Replacement and Galley Renovation Project as described in the
Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Vestibular
Testing Center Equipment Replacement and Expansion Project
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) Vestibular Testing Center Equipment Replacement and Expansion Project as
described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for bids and
awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) East Ann Arbor
Computed Tomography and Magnetic Resonance Imaging Expansion Project
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) East Ann Arbor Computed Tomography and Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Expansion Project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are
within the approved budget.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes 8 conflict of interest items,
each of which requires 6 votes for approval. On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded
by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved each of the following items:
Lease Agreement with William C. Martin
The Regents approved a lease agreement with William C. Martin for property
located at 330 East Liberty Street. Because William C. Martin is a University of
Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
William C. Martin.
2.  The service to be provided is the lease of a 6,600 gross square foot building at 330
East Liberty Street for sixty-two months, from November 1, 2004 through December
31, 2009, at an annual rate of $1.00. The monthly operating expense rate will start at


295




March Meeting, 2005


$3,770 per month and increase every January thereafter based upon the Consumer
Price Index or a 3% increase, whichever is greater. The tenant improvement
construction costs needed to occupy the space are estimated not to exceed $60,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that William C. Martin is a University of
Michigan employee.
Purchasing Contract with Therapeutic Systems Research Labs, Inc. ("TSRL")
The Regents approved a payment to Therapeutic Systems Research Labs, Inc., to
provide a nanoemulsion preparation. Because Gordon Amidon, sole owner of TSRL, is
also a University of Michigan employee, this purchase falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Plastic Surgery and Therapeutic Research Labs, Inc.
2.   The service to be provided is a nanoemulsion preparation at a total cost of $15,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Gordon Amidon, a University of
Michigan employee, is sole owner of Therapeutic Systems Research Labs, Inc.
Purchasing Contract with Joe Braun Photography
The Regents approved a payment to Joe Braun Photography to provide a variety of
framed and matted photographs.        Because Joe Braun, sole owner of Joe Braun
Photography, is also a University of Michigan employee, this purchase falls under the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Human Resources and Affirmative Action and Joe Braun Photography.
2.   The products to be provided are framed and matted photographs at a total cost of
$1,850.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Joe Braun, a University of Michigan
employee, is sole owner of Joe Braun Photography.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Flycasting.com
The Regents approved a license agreement with Flycasting.com for "A Device for
Measuring and Teaching Flycasting" (UM File No. 2149). Because Dr. Noel Perkins,
partial owner of Flycasting.com, is also a University of Michigan employee, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Flycasting.com.
2.   The terms of the agreement include giving Flycasting.com an exclusive license with
the right to grant sublicenses. Flycasting.com will pay a royalty on sales and will
reimburse patent costs. The University will retain ownership of the licensed
technology and may continue to further develop it and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of
warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of
the parties.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Noel Perkins, a University of
Michigan employee, is partial owner of Flycasting.com. He has waived any personal
participation in the sharing of revenue received by the University.


296




March Meeting, 2005


Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and SensiGen, LLC
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with SensiGen, LLC, to enable
research to be performed to determine the potential for detection of kidney disease and
human papillovirus infection by the mass array method. Because Dr. David M.
Kurnit--owner, director and officer of SensiGen, LLC--is also a University of Michigan
employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
SensiGen, LLC.
2.   The project will be conducted over an initial one-year period at a total estimated cost
of $496,00, including indirect cost at 20%. Since research agreements are often
amended, the agreement includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope.
University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and additional
review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate. The
subcontract terms are consistent with University policies and Regental bylaws.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. David M. Kurnit, a University of
Michigan employee, is also owner, director, and officer of SensiGen, LLC.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Michigan Critical
Care Consultants, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with Michigan Critical Care
Consultants, Inc., to continue a research project entitled "Extracorporeal Circulation
without Anticoagulation." Because Dr. Robert Bartlett, part owner of Michigan Critical
Care Consultants, Inc., is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc.
2.   The project will be conducted from July 1, 2004 through June 30, 2007, at an
anticipated cost of $196,000. Since research agreements are often amended, the
agreement includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope. University
procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and additional review by
the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate. The subcontract terms
are consistent with University policies and Regental bylaws.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Robert Bartlett, a University of
Michigan employee, is also part owner of Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and NeuroNexus
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with NeuroNexus to enable them to
participate in the project entitled "Implantable Neural Interfaces for Sharks." Because Drs.
Daryl Kipke and David J. Anderson and Ms. Jamille Hetke, part owners of NeuroNexus,
are also University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
NeuroNexus.
2.   It is anticipated that the normal contract terms and conditions will be set forth in the
award from the Defense Advance Research Projects Agency. The project is
anticipated to cover the period of January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2009. Since
research agreements are often amended, the agreement includes provisions for changes
in time, amount, and scope. University procedures for approval of these changes will


297




March Meeting, 2005


be followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done
as appropriate. The subcontract terms are consistent with University policies and
Regental bylaws.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Drs. Daryl Kipke and David J.
Anderson and Ms. Jamille Hetke, University of Michigan employees, are also part
owners of NeuroNexus.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Innovative
Biotherapies, Inc.
Regent Richner recused himself from consideration of this request due to a conflict
of interest, so this item was considered separately from the others.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
approved a subcontract agreement with Innovative Biotherapies, Inc., to enable research
to characterize a hemofilter comprised of a dense array of slit pores with dimensions
similar to those predicted for a glomerular slit diaphragm. Because Dr. H. David
Humes--founder, owner, director and officer of Innovative Biotherapies, Inc.--is also a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Innovative Biotherapies, Inc.
2.   The project will be conducted over an initial twenty-month period at a total estimated
cost of $345,741, including indirect cost at the University's negotiated federal indirect
cost rate. Since research agreements are often amended, the agreement includes
provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope. University procedures for approval
of these changes will be followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest
Committee will be done as appropriate. The subcontract terms are consistent with
University policies and Regental bylaws.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. H. David Humes, a University of
Michigan employee, is also founder, owner, director, and officer of Innovative
Biotherapies, Inc.
Archaeological Materials and Burial Remains from Old Birch (Wardrop) Island,
Canada
Vice President Ulaby noted that this request involves repatriation of items residing in
the Museum of Anthropology to the Whitefish River First Nation in Canada. On a motion
by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents unanimously authorized
the Museum of Anthropology to deaccession to the Whitefish River First Nation
archaeological materials and burial remains from Old Birch (Wardrop) Island, Canada.
Regent Deitch returned to the table at this point, at 3:25 p.m.
MSA Report
Mr. Brian Hull, treasurer of MSA, presented a resolution that had passed
unanimously in support of nondiscrimination on the basis of gender identity or expression,
and urging an amendment to Regents' Bylaw 14.06 to this effect.
A five-minute break followed, at 3:30-3:35 p.m.


298




March Meeting, 2005


Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people on the topic of amending
the Regents Bylaws to include a nondiscrimination statement regarding gender identity or
expression: Bruce Frier, faculty member and chair of the Provost's TBLG Task Force;
Jaya Kalra, student, co-founder of Queers in Residence; Michael Reisch, faculty member;
Denise Brogan, student, chair of TransForUM and board member of Outlaws; Paul Bums,
student and member of Students of Color of Rackham; and Sandra Cole, faculty member.
Additionally, they heard from the following people on the topics indicated: Jim
Mogensen, citizen, on the town-gown relationship; Michael Harris, citizen, member of
Michigan Paralyzed Veterans of America, Clark Shuler, citizen, and James Skupski,
alumnus, on accessibility issues with respect to renovation of Michigan Stadium; and
Rese Fox, student and member of MSA External Relations Committee (ERC), on ERC's
advocacy on higher education funding.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:15 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for April 21, 2005.
Marvin Krisolov
acting as Vice President and Secretary of the University


299




Marh  eeting, 205


300




APRIL MEETING, 2005


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, April 21, 2005
The Regents convened at 2:15 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner,
Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost Courant, Vice President Harper,
Executive Vice President Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Chancellor
Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice President Slottow, Vice President
Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Vice President May was absent.
Call to Order
President Coleman called the meeting to order and called attention to some agenda
items that speak to the future of the University's research and clinical care. The most
noteworthy of these is the recommendation for a replacement facility for the C.S. Mott
Children's and Women's Hospitals. She noted that even though C.S. Mott Children's
Hospital is noted for its exceptional quality of care, the current facility is 35 years old and
is coping with insufficient and outdated space, and she said "it is time for the quality of
facilities to again match the quality of medical care." President Coleman also announced
that the Mott Foundation had announced plans to donate $25 million, its largest grant
ever, to this project, and noted that Regent Brandon and his wife Jan are co-chairing the
fundraising campaign along with Coach Lloyd Carr and Laurie Carr.
President Coleman also commented on the recommendation for establishment of a
research institute focused on nanotechnology to be directed by Dr. James Baker. She
noted that this technology is a focus of future NIH funding and also leverages the
University's major overall investments in the life sciences.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that he
and committee members White and Taylor had met that morning and had considered
several topics. These included an update from the Athletic Department on its 5-year
strategic operating and capital expenditure plans and a Sarbanes-Oxley "gap" analysis as
part of ongoing efforts to make sure that financial accounting practices follow appropriate
"best practices" outlined in the Sarbanes-Oxley legislation. The committee had received
written reports on the financial performance of the Hospitals and Health Centers (HHC)
and of M-Care. He noted that for the third quarter, the HHC operating margin is 4.9%,
which is ahead of last year and ahead of budget. He praised the HHC leadership for the
"phenomenal job" they are doing. Regarding M-Care, the report was positive, with
membership numbers and net income both being positive to budget.
Personnel, Compensation and Governance Committee.      Regent Maynard
reported that she, along with committee members Deitch and Richner and Regent
McGowan, had considered two agenda items: the regular, periodic evaluation of the
president and an update on ongoing dean searches.


301




April Meeting, 2005


Benefits Update: 2005 and Future Strategies
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that a faculty-led committee had made a
number of recommendations on health benefits offerings, and Associate Vice President
Laurita Thomas would be presenting an analysis of open enrollment data in the first year
following implementation of the major changes in benefits.
Ms. Thomas described health insurance policy changes that had been made in
calendar year 2004, which included for the first time a co-pay for single-person
coverage and a new category of coverage for employees. The fourth category of
coverage is for one adult and any number of children and has resulted in significant
savings for the more than 4,000 employees who chose this option.
Ms. Thomas described other plan and policy changes that had resulted in
significant cost savings, both for employees and for the University. She reported that
the rate increases imposed in 2005 for medical and prescription drug coverage was far
below that experienced nationally. Benefit strategies for 2006 and beyond will focus on
providing quality, cost-competitive plans for the University and for faculty, staff, and
retirees. She noted that the University is committed to providing a choice of health plan
options, with a long-term goal of reducing the number of plans while still meeting other
benefits strategies.
For 2006, plans are to continue the current, co-premium sharing formula which
resulted in savings for over 6,000 employees; to monitor migration patterns; and to
monitor prescription drug coverage options being offered by the federal government
that may be suitable for retirees. She described other key initiatives in benefits
planning for the coming years, which include offering an additional tax-deferred
retirement vehicle for employees, evaluating options for prescription drug and life
insurance plans, and expanding the use of technology and of on-line benefit
enrollments.
Children's and Women's Hospitals Replacement Project
Executive Vice President Kelch commented that the replacement hospital project is
the result of a great deal of thoughtful, careful planning over a period of several years. He
introduced Larry Warren, executive director of the University of Michigan Hospitals and
Health Centers.
Mr. Warren noted that this project represents a milestone in the life of the medical
center. He acknowledged the work of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive
Board, several steering committees, the community advisory board, and a number of
individuals in advancing this project to its current state of development. He introduced
Ms. Patricia Warner, associate hospital director, to present the proposed project.
Ms. Warner noted that the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital is one of three
comprehensive children's hospitals in the state. It has market dominance and is the
only institution with state-wide draw. She stated that although the pediatric population
is expected to remain flat, officials are confident of the accuracy of the growth
assumptions that are reflected in this project. She noted building a new children's and
women's facility will serve the overall Health System strategic direction by freeing up
the existing Mott facility to allow for clinical expansion of adult facilities. The project


302




April Meeting, 2005


provides for a separate pediatric emergency department which will enable much needed
expansion of the adult emergency department. Diagnostic radiology services will also
be expanded to meet the needs of pediatric and adult services.
Ms. Warner noted that Mott Children's Hospital is one of the finest in the world
and that the University is a designated center of excellence in women's health. New
facilities are needed to continue to enhance the hospitals' family-centered care. She
pointed out that most of the nation's other comprehensive children's hospitals have
either undergone recent renovations or are in the process of doing so. To remain
competitive in retaining and recruiting the finest faculty and staff, she noted, "we need
the facilities that will allow them to do their work." She observed that another project
objective is to achieve the standards set by current codes and said that it is difficult to
maintain up-to-date equipment and technology in outdated facilities.
Ms. Warner commented that the entire hospital will be HEPA-filtered to provide
the cleanest air system possible and that one unit would be capable of handling a mass
infectious disease outbreak for both children and adults.
Ms. Warner said that project planning has been driven by a number of guiding
principles: to support the strategic plan of the entire Health System; to design for
maximum flexibility and expansion; to plan from the patient and family perspective; to
engage diverse, active, participation from many audiences, including faculty and staff,
patients and families, students, and others; to design for efficiency, accessibility,
flexibility, safety, and comfort; and to be family centered.
She reviewed the economic assumptions that will be guiding this project,
including occupancy rates, length of stay, and inpatient and outpatient growth rates.
She pointed out that the projections are conservative and expressed confidence that they
will be met. The return on investment is expected to be 4%.
Ms. Warner displayed diagrams illustrating the concept for both the project and
the site. She noted that plans assume demolition of the current Women's Hospital, with
that site likely to become a transit center for drop-off of faculty and staff. With respect
to parking, she noted that construction will remove 313 parking spaces in 2006, and an
additional 500 staff spaces in the Mott structure will be changed to patient/visitor
parking. But the opening of two other structures currently under construction will
provide 735 spaces. Over the long term, plans call for increased use of remote parking
facilities for staff and faculty.
The facility will be 1 million square feet, with about 775,000 square feet for the
inpatient facility and 225,000 square feet for the outpatient and office portion. The
building will be 10 stories high, with the mechanical penthouse on the 1l1th floor. She
reviewed how the bed allocation will be divided among the total of 266 beds. There
will be 90,000 square feet of planned shell space. All patient rooms will be single
rooms. Ms. Warner also announced that a major feature of the hospital is that it will be
paperless.
The total cost of the project is $498 million. This will be funded from the
UMHHC reserves ($298 million); tax-exempt debt ($150 million); and philanthropy
($50 million). The debt service payments will be derived from the UMHHC operating
margin. Regarding the amount to be derived from philanthropy, she announced that


303




April Meeting, 2005


$35 million has already been pledged, and all involved are committed to exceeding the
$50 million original goal.
Upon approval of the project, schematic design will begin and will proceed
through winter of 2006. Construction is expected to begin in fall 2006, and extend
through winter 2010. Opening is targeted for 2011, after all staff receive extensive
orientation to assure a smooth transition to the new facility.
Ms. Warner announced that HKS Architects, P.C., is being recommended for this
project and noted that the selection of this firm was the result of an extensive review
process.
Executive Vice President Kelch commented that Health System officials have
been looking at the needs for the entire system, which is why this project includes
elements that go beyond the children's hospital alone and will result in benefits for the
entire Health System. He emphasized that this is a self-funded project, funded by
resources that have been generated through the productivity of the Health System work
force and through philanthropists. He observed that the construction of the new
University Hospital in the early 1980s required significant investment from the state,
and this current replacement project, which will be self-funded and the second largest
project ever undertaken at the University, can be viewed as a tremendous return on that
investment.
Executive Vice President Slottow commented that his staff and UMHHS staff,
along with outside consultants, have thoroughly reviewed all financial aspects of this
project, and he is confident that the financial assumptions on which the project is based
are sound.
Regent Maynard noted that the new University Hospital had been built with state
assistance, and at the time, the University had pledged it would not seek any further
assistance in such an endeavor. It has lived up to this pledge, and she said it was an
honorable value.
Regent Deitch raised the question of why the hospital is not slated to open until
2011. It was noted that the design phase would not be finished until winter 2006 and
that the site has limited accessibility, making staging and sequencing of construction
very important. It is also critical that the existing hospital continues to function during
construction, so there are a number of reasons leading to the projected opening of 2011.
Regent Deitch commented that the Regents have supreme confidence in the
leadership of the hospital and in the development of this project, due to their dedication
and competence.
Regent Brandon recalled that 25 years earlier his identical twin sons had been
rushed to Mott Children's Hospital and doctors and nurses had saved their lives. Two
of the doctors and one of the nurses still work at the hospital. "Little did I know," he
commented, "that 25 years later I would be in a position to move this item on behalf of
my wife and my sons and everyone else who believes in this strongly. So it is with a
great deal of pride and commitment that I move approval of the University of Michigan
Hospitals and Health Centers C.S. Mott Children's and Women's Hospitals
Replacement Project as described and authorize commissioning HKS Architects, P.C.
for its design." Regent Deitch seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously,


304




April Meeting, 2005


with approval indicated by a show of wrists adorned with Mott Hospital wrist bands. A
round of applause followed.
Regent Deitch left the meeting at this point, at 3:00 p.m.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Krislov, acting as vice president and secretary of the
University, submitted for approval the minutes of the meeting of March 17, 2005.
Appointment of Vice President and Secretary of the University. President
Coleman announced her recommendation of Sally Jo Churchill as vice president and
secretary of the University. Regent McGowan stated that she and President Coleman
"are delighted to commend to members of the board this very happy end to a rigorous
search." She noted that the pool had included a number of highly qualified applicants
from within the University, and that Ms. Churchill's portfolio in her current position as
assistant general counsel coincides well with areas of interest to the Board. She said that
this is a terrific outcome and thanked all who had participated in the process,
particularly President Coleman and Regent Brandon, who had devoted a great deal of
time and effort to the search process.
Regent McGowan moved the appointment of Sally J. Churchill as vice president
and secretary of the University.  The motion was seconded and approved by
acclamation. A round of applause followed.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report, the
Plant Extension Report, the Regents Report on Non-Competitive Purchases Over
$5,000 from Single Sources, December 16, 2004 - March 15, 2005, and the Human
Resources and Affirmative Action Report.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of projects
established, March 1-March 31, 2005. He pointed out that in March 2004, about $45
million in awards was processed, as opposed to March 2005, when $177 million was
processed. This represents an increase of 290%. Total awards processed to date is up
9.2% from the previous year. These figures support his previously stated prediction
that awards will be up by 6% for the current fiscal year.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Kelch had no
additional report.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper had no additional report.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little reported that the campus
had been undergoing a process of envisioning the future during the past year, and it had
culminated in a campus-wide retreat involving 200 people. He stated that he would be
reporting next month on a conception of the University of Michigan-Dearborn as a
metropolitan university with University of Michigan excellence.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas reported that the Flint campus'
capital campaign kickoff, "Imagine: The UM-Flint Difference," had recently been held.


305




April Meeting, 2005


The goal is $30 million. President Coleman and Regent Maynard had participated in
the event.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. Jason Mironov, former president of MSA,
introduced newly-elected president Jesse Levine. Mr. Levine described MSA's agenda
for the coming year and noted that improving the lives of student tenants would be the
number one priority. Other priorities include improving services for international
students, providing more support for student groups, exploring ways to support the
University's commitment to diversity, helping to improve campus safety, and
supporting SOAR, the newly established way to recognize students and student groups,
among others. He stated that he plans to continue the path of his predecessor in
working collaboratively with the administration.
Voluntary Support. The Report of Voluntary Support for March 2005 was
submitted.
Advance Magazine Group, Wilmington, Delaware
for undergraduate  student aid.................................................$$11,483
Aline Underhill Orten Foundation, Inc., Eastpointe
for the Aline Underhill Orten Scholarship Fund in
the Center for the Education  of Women..........................................15,000
Altair Engineering, Inc., Troy
for research at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................ 10,000
Frank J. Ambrose, Bloomfield Hills
for the John R. Pfeifer Collegiate Professorship in Vascular Surgery in
the Medical School.......................................................*10,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 132,349
American Dental Education Association, Washington, D. C.
for support in the School of Dentistry............................................*41,667
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Division of Kinesiology and the Medical School...................306,529
American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc., Phoenix, Arizona
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.............................. 10,000
American Foundation for Urological Disease, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for support in  the  M edical School..............................................  15,000
American Hearing Research Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 58,069
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research  in the School of Public Health....................................... 20,625
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research  in  the  M edical School.............................................. 52,500
American Medical Association Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Audio-Digest Foundation Endowment for the CME Fund in the Medical School.... 20,000
Marshall Anderson Charitable Remainder Unitrust
for the Marshall and Mabel E. Anderson Endowment Fund......................... 256,487
Ann Arbor Track Club, Ann Arbor
for men's and women's track and field support in the Department of Athletics............10,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in  the  M edical School..............................................  15,000
Argosy Foundation, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Lazar J. Greenfield Professorship in the Medical School....................125,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School............................................ 24,458
Bendit Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for the Bendit Foundation Global Initiatives Fund in the Medical Sc~hool................25,000
Bruce P. Bickner, Sycamore, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................. 20,000
Maurice and Linda Binkow Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Museum of Art, for the Maurice and
Linda Binkow Endowed Sc~holarship Fund in the Sc'hool of Music,
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,


306




April  eeting, 205


for Camp Michigania, and
for the University Musical Society............................................ 17,500
Bloomfield Tow nship Fire Dep artment Charities, Bloomfield Hills
for sup port in the Medical School............................................ 10,000
Boston Scientific Corporation, Natick, Massachusetts
for the Lazar J. Greenfield Professorship in the Medical School..................... 250,000
BP Amoco, Houston, Texas
for scholarships and other supp ort in the College of Engineering..................... 12,000
Breast Cancer Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School........................................... 487,294
Breece Family Charitable Fund of the Vanguard. Charitable Endowment Program,
Southeastern, Pennsylvania
for support in the Department of Athietics......................................1.5,000
William K. Brehm, McLean, Virginia
for the Brehm.-Soderquist Endowed Professorship Fund in the Medical School........ 1,000,000
Brentlinger Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Paul S. Brentlinger Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............. 20,000
James R.. Browne, Dallas,. Texas
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics,
for research in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business, and.
for support in the School of Music............................................ 14,000
John. and Helen Burc'h Irrevoc'able Trust
for the John E. and Helen R. Burch Scholarship in the Medic'al School................ 205,255
Ric~hard R. Burns, Carefree, Arizona
458 shares of Nordstrom, Inc., common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and
for the Building Fund and other support in. the Law School.......................... 24,977
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research and Career Awards in the Biomedical Sciences in the Medical School....... 113,108
Carls Foundation, Detroit
for the Camp Michitanki Transplant Fund...................................... 10,000
Carnegie Conporation., New York, New York
for support in the Institute for Social Research.................................. 165,000
Central Pennylvania Community Foundation, Altoona, Pennsylvania
for the Brian Morden Fund/Liddy Shriver Sarcoma Initiative Fund, in the Medic~al School.. 25,000
Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation, Taipei, Taiwan
for supp ort in the Sc'hool of Music............................................ 20,000
Cisco Systems, Inc., San Jose, California
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund..................... 45,000
Coalition for Pulmonar Fibrosis, San Jose, Califomnia
for research in the Medical School............................................ 59,967
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
700 shares of Altria, Group, Inc., common stock
for the Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Scholarship Fund, in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
for the R. G. Conger Papyrology Endowment Fund in the University Library
for the Pauline M. Conger Scholarship Fund, and
for the Univ~ersity Musical Society............................................ 45,371.
Conrad Charitable Foundation, Northville
for scholarships at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................... 10,000
Contempo Communications Foundation, For Myers, Florida
for the Joan and David Marshall. Fund in. the School of Music....................... 30000
Howard D. Crull, Jr.,. Rancho Santa Fe., California
900 shares of Sears Roebuck and Company common stock
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics............................ 51,435
DaimlerChrysler Corporation, Auburn Hills
for scholarships and other supp ort at the Univ~ersity of Michigan-Dearborn............. 38,000


307




April Meeting, 2005


Max M. and Marjorie S. Fisher Support Foundation of the United Jewish Foundation,
Bloomfield Hills
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy................... 71,429
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Spring to Life Event Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and
for employee matching gifts.............................................. 106,941
Stanley and Judith Frankel Family Foundation, Troy
for the MBS Israel Projects in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................ 12,500
Charles and Rita Gelman Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Federation of Washtenaw County,
Ann Arbor
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School and
for support in the Museum of Art.............................................. 25,500
General Electric Company Lighting Business Group, East Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the Transportation Research Institute............................... 15,000
General Electric Industrial Systems, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for research at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............................. 14,625
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering and
the School of Natural Resources and Environment and
for employee matching gifts..................................................  23,480
Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation, San Francisco, California
for support in the School of Music..............................................  14,000
Robert S. Giles Revocable Trust
for the Champions for Change Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 25,000
GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research and other support in the Medical School and
for employee matching gifts................................................. 23,245
Michael D. and Ann D. Green Fund of the Schwab Fund for Charitable Giving,
San Francisco, California
for support in the College of Engineering and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 11,000
Doris M. Harrington Trust
for the Dorothy M. Harrington Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Paton Accounting Center in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business in
memory of Professor William Paton......................................... 10,000
J. Ira and Nicki Harris Foundation, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Football Locker Room Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 360,000
James S. House and Wendy Fisher House Charitable Fund of
the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Elizabeth Douvan Junior Scholar in Life Course and
the Laurie Staples Staff Development Fund in the Institute for Social Research.......... 10,000
Paul L. Hudson, Sun City West, Arizona
for the Paul Logan Hudson Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 15,000
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering...................................... 20,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health......................... 553,526
Jack A. Josephson, New York, New York
5,000 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for support in the College of Engineering.................................... 116,350
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Minority Environmental Leadership Development Initiative in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment................................ 91,300
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................. 41,250
Kansai Medical University, Osaka, Japan
for support in the Medical School......................................... 25,000
Randall S. Kaplan, Los Angeles, California
930 shares of Akamai Technologies, Inc., common stock
for the Julia Eder Dean's Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 11,076
William A. Lewis Kaufmann Estate
for the William Allan Lewis Kaufmann Scholarship and Loan Fund in the Law School... 188,111
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Institute for Social Research............................... 48,080
Keywell, L.L.C., Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Department of Athletics........................... 300,000


308




April Meeting, 2005


Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petsokey
for the Child and Family Life Fund in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital.............. 29,704
Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School............................................ 100,000
Margaret L. Laird, Ann Arbor
for the Computer Science and Engineering Building Fund in the College of Engineering and
for the Alumni Association........................................... 10,047
Edward F. and Genevieve W. LaTulip Trust
for support at the University of Michigan................................  850,000
Eli Lilly & Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for employee matching gifts................................................. 33,961
Elizabeth A. Lukas, Palos Verdes Estates, California
for the Student Publication Building Fund...................................... 10,000
Lumina Foundation for Education, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research in the School of Education...................................... 191,117
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts................................................. 15,750
Magna International, Inc., Aurora, Canada
for the Heinz C. Prechter Bipolar Research Fund in the Medical School................ 10,000
Michael P. Manley, P.C., Flint
for support in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital................................... 10,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School......................................... 37,500
Masco Corporation, Taylor
for the University Musical Society and for WUOM............................... 25,000
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
5,000 shares of Gillette Company common stock
for the Kelsey Museum Expansion Project................................. 249,475
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Information and the University Library and
for other support at the University of Michigan................................ 1,298,500
Herman L. Miller, Ann Arbor
1,176 shares of Fifth Third Bancorp common stock
for the Dorothy and Herman L. Miller Endowed Immunology Research Fund in
the Medical School.................................................... 49,986
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital and the University of Michigan-Flint and
for employee matching gifts.......................................... 835,984
Muscular Dystrophy Association, Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School............................................. 80,105
James E. Myers Estate
for the Alumni M-PACT Fund................................................ 10,000
MZM Productions, Inc., Miami Lakes, Florida
for the Jim and Bonnie Mandich Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics....... 20,000
International Neuro-Psychoanalysis Society, London, England
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 12,00
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depresssion, Great Neck, New York
for research in the Medical School.......................................... 15,00
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for the Life Sciences Institute and
for support in the Medical School.......................................... 58,681
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research  in the M edical School.......................................  7.. 9,281
National Organization for Hearing Research, Narberth, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School............................................. 30,000
Peter Nicholas, Natick, Massachusetts
for the Lazar J. Greenfield Professorship in the Medical School...................... 125,000
Nissan Research & Development, Inc., Farmington Hills
for support in the Transportation Research Institute............................. 15,000
Nobel Biocare USA, LLC, Yorba Linda, California
for support in the School of Dentistry....................................... 52,500
Novartis Institute for BioMedical Research, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts
for the Novartis Fellowship Support Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 39,000
Pfizer Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts............................................... 44,254


309




Apri Meeting, 205


Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the College of Pharmacy, the Stephen M. Ross School of Business, and
the Medical Sc~hool.......................................................19,%000
Pharmacia., Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matc~hing gifts................................................ 11,490
Photronics, Inc., Brookfield, Connecticut
for research in the College of Engineering...................................... 25,000
Thelma Fordharn Pruett Fund of the Dayton Foundation, Dayton, Ohio
for the Theodora Kaplan Wilks Finn 1947 Research Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 11,000
Radiological Society of North America R & B, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School............................................ 42,500
Mitchell and Shirley Raskin Charitable Remainder Trust
for support in the Stephen M. Ross Sc~hool of Business...............40,0
Reconciling Ministries Development Fund, of the National Capital of...........0,0
the Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Champions for Change Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 25,000
Research. to Prevent Blindness Endow ment Fund, In~c., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School........................100,000
Research and Education Foundation for the American Association for the Surgery of Trauma,
Dallas, Texas
for research. in the Medic~al School............................................ 20000
Jam-es D. Robenstine,. Saint Marys, Ohio
for the James D. Robenstine Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the John S. Brubacher Fund in the School of Education............................ 50000
Roy H. Roberts Charitable Lead Trust
for the Dr. Roy and Mrs. Natalie Roberts Fund in the School of Dentistry.............. 27,620
Roche Laboratories, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey
for the Camp Michitanki Transplant Fund and
the Transplant Center Dev~elopment BEvents Fund................................. 16,000
David M. Roebuck, Bryan, Ohio
-for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics....................1.9,600
Stephen M. Ross, New York, New York
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics and
for the Stephen M. Ross Expansion, Construction, and Facilities Renovation Fund........37,016
Jonathan Rye, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jonathan and Lisa Rye S 'leroderma Researc~h Fund in. the Medical. School........ 500,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 30,502
Shirley K. Schlafer Foundation, New York, New York
for the University of Michigan Children's Cancer Fund............................ 39,900
Shell Oil Company Foundation., Houston, Texas
for employee matc~hing gifts................................................ 14,250
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for the Robert and Marjorie Shepherd GSI Fund in the School of Music and
for the Donald R. Shepherd Sc~holarship Endow ment Fund.......................... 80,000
Mabel E. Sherk Estate
for the Mabel B. Sherk Research Fund in the Medical School........................ 47,781
Liddy Shriver Sarcoma Initiative Fund, of FJC, New York, New York
for the Brian Morden and Liddy Shriver Initiative Fund in the Medical School........... 25,000
Alfred P. Sloan. Foundation., New York, New York
for research at the University of Michigan..................................... 197,888
Spenc~er Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Education................ 97,550
Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.................. 50000
Je ffrey and usn-ten1 hlathopc un   fheJe-ihomualFudNWYork, NW Yor


310




April Mi/eeting, 2005


B. Gregory Thompson, Ann Arbor
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics..................... 10,300
Preston R. Tisch Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Communal Fund, New York, New York
for the P. Robert Tisch Tennis Fund in the Department of Athletics.................. 150,000
Charles J. Trick, Livonia
for the Charles J. Trick Fund in the Medical School............................. 40,000
Don L. Truex, Santa Barbara, California
5,000 shares of Tri Valley Corporation common stock
for the Don Lee Truex Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Don Lee Truex Scholarship in the Department of Athletics........................ 65,525
United Autoworkers - General Motors Human Resource Center, Detroit
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute............................. 100,000
Union Pacific Foundation, Omaha, Nebraska
for scholarships in the College of Engineering and
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..................................... 14,500
Unity Semiconductor Corporation, Sunnyvale, California
for research in the College of Engineering..................................... 14,257
University of Michigan Club of Detroit Scholarship Fund, Farmington
for the James H. LoPrete Scholarship..................................... 42,000
Robert E. Valk Trust
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 25,000
Thomas G. Varbedian, Bloomfield Hills
3,842 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Spring to Life Event Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and
for the Thomas G. and Marilynn Varbedian Family Scholarship in the Medical School..... 105,047
Hom-Lay Wang, Canton
for the Hom-Lay Wang Endowed Collegiate Professorship in the School of Dentistry...... 12,500
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for research and other support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment and
the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy................................... 167,000
Frank M. Wheeler Estate
for the Frank M. Wheeler Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the Law School....................................................... 100,000
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for biomedical engineering research in the College of Engineering..................... 80,000
Judy and Fred Wilpon Family Foundation, Great Neck, New York
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program Benny Friedman Fellowship in Sports...... 10,000
Ralph C. Wilson Foundation, Grosse Pointe Park
for research in the Medical School........................................... 200,000
Zatkoff Family Foundation, Farmington Hills
for the Roger and Elaine Zatkoff Scholarship and
for scholarships at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......................... 25,175
Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:


Advance Endodontics, LLC, Albuquerque, New
Mexico
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann
Arbor
Michael Allemang Charitable Gift Fund of the
Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
Alro Steel Corporation, Jackson
Alumni Association of the University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor
American College of Surgeons, Chicago, Illinois
American Express Foundation, New York, New
York
Gordon L. Amidon, Ann Arbor
Ann Arbor Academy, Ann Arbor
Anonymous Donor
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
Betty S. Warner Revocable Trust
Bialis Family Foundation, Santa Barbara,
California


Daniel and Estrella Brodsky, New York, New
York
Buhr Foundation, Ann Arbor
Helen E. Burrell Trust
Richard B. Bushaw Trust
Henry L. Caulkins, Jr., Cheboygan
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan,
Southfield
Karen Clancy, Bloomfield Hills
Clark Hill, PLC, Detroit
ConocoPhillips Company, Houston, Texas
David M. Courtis, Bellingham, WA
Detroit Tigers, Inc., Detroit
James R. Donahey, Ann Arbor
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
Gary L. Falkin, Florham Park, New Jersey
Andrew V. Farbman, Franklin
Thomas P. Fodell, Rochester Hills
Donald J. Fraser, Lake Mary, Florida


311




April M~eet~ing, 20055


Ronald Freedman, Ann Arbor
Chevrolet Motor Division General Motors
Company, Warren
Stephen C. Goings, Johnstown, Ohio
Goldman, Sachs & Company, New York, New
York
Graham Foundation, York, Pennsylvania
Grand Rapids Art Museum, Grand Rapids
Hewlett-Packard Company, Colorado Springs,
Colorado
Milton and Miriam Handler Foundation, New
York, New York
Hartz Mountain Industries, Inc., Secaucus, New
Jersey
Lee Hartzmark Philanthropic Fund, Cleveland,
Ohio
Ralph C. Heid, Jr., Plymouth
Joan E. Herlitz, Bloomfield Hills
Carl W. Herstein, Ann Arbor
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo
Park, California
Iowa Foundation for Education, Environment and
the Arts, Indianola, Iowa
Island Risk Management Associates, Inc.,
Huntington Station, New York
Andrew C. Jacobs, Dublin, Ohio
Edward R. James, Winnetka, Illinois
Barbara Kacir, Moreland Hills, Ohio
Dawn C. Kaung, Austin, Texas
Paul A. Keller, Franklin
Sally Pyne Kennedy, Ann Arbor
Norman W. Kiel, Grandville
Robert W. Klomparens, Midland
Alan F. Krauss, Raleigh, North Carolina
Joseph A. LaCava Estate
Lang-Mekra North America, Ridgeway, South
Carolina


Jane L. Lieberthal, Washington, D. C.
Christopher D. Liguori, Glencoe, Illinois
Lupus Alliance of America, Inc., Saint Clair
Shores
Lutheran Community Foundation, Minneapolis,
Minnesota
Jean C. Lutterman, Bethesda, Maryland
Lyle Foundation, New York, New York
Patricia H. McHoskey, Ann Arbor
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc.,
Jenkinstown, Pennsylvania
National Heritage Academies, Grand Rapids
Ruthann Nichols, Ann Arbor
Adam J. Nordin, Chicago, Illinois
Novartis, East Hanover, New Jersey
Mildred P. Pickard Estate
Pitney Bowes, Stamford, Connecticut
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
Samuel A. Ragnone, Flint
Eric Randolph Ridenour, Birmingham
Brian D. Robbins, Pepper Pike, Ohio
Schreiber Foundation for Cancer Research,
Holland
Michael F. Starling, Grosse Ile
Robert G. Strachan, New York, New York
Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, New
York, New York
Team Beans, LLC, East Brunswick, New Jersey
Truck-Lite Company, Inc., Falconer, New York
University Cancer Foundation, Southfield
University of Michigan Credit Union, Ann Arbor
Varnum, Riddering, Schmidt & Howlett LLP,
Grand Rapids
Janet A. Weiss, Ann Arbor
Georgetta A. Wolff, Huntington Beach, California


The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
one 2005 Ford Mustang GT for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane the University of MichiganDearborn
Oncology Data Systems, Inc., Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
MU Check software Version 5.0 for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Visteon, Dearborn
a Municipal Driving Simulator manufactured by FAAC, Inc. for the University of MichiganDearborn
Ronald N. Weiser, Ann Arbor
a Steinway Piano model A made in 1916 for the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective April 21, 2005
Lawrence, Daniel A., Ph.D., Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Napolitano, Lena M., M.D., Professor of Surgery, Medical School
REAPPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 2005-June 30, 2009
Little, Daniel E., Chancellor, University of Michigan-Dearborn


312




April Meeting, 2005


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVESTAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Bernstein, Stephen, Professor of English, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of English,
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Casement, Rose A., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Education, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services, January 1, 2005-January 1, 2008
Hanashiro, Roy, Professor of History, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of History,
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Stach, Robert W., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of Chemistry,
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2007
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 2005-May 31, 2007
Chen, Anthony S., Assistant Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Assistant Professor of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, scholarly activity
leave
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMINGPROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMICADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing Endowed Professorships
Lewis and Lillian Becker Professorship in Dermatology, Medical School, April 21, 2005
Kutsche Memorial Chair in Internal Medicine, Medical School, April 21, 2005
Ara G. Paul Assistant Professorship, College of Pharmacy, May 1, 2005
Carl Vernon Weller Professorship in Pathology, Medical School, April 21, 2005
RenaminganExising Colleiate Professorship
Richard A. Musgrave Collegiate Professorship in Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,
September 1, 2005
Renamingan Existing gEndowed Pro essorsh)
From the Aldred Scott Warthin-Carl Vernon Weller to the Aldred Scott Warthin Professorship in
Pathology, Medical School, April 21, 2005
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Apointmnents to Colleiate.~Peo Itjp
Camper, Sally A., James V. Neel Collegiate Professor of Human Genetics, Medical School,
April 21, 2005-April 20, 2010
Li, Victor C., E. Benjamin Wylie Collegiate Professor of Civil Engineering, College of Engineering,
May 1, 2005-April 30, 2010
ApintmIentto an Endowed Proessorshi
Herman, William H., Stefan S. Fajans, M.D./GlaxoSmithKline Professor of Diabetes, Medical School,
April 21, 2005-April 20, 2010
Appointment to a Named Professorshp
Stanley, James C., Marion and David Handleman Research Professor of Vascular Surgery, Medical
School. April 21, 2005-April 20, 2010
Reappointment to an Endowed Professorship
Assanis, Dionissios N., Jon R. and Beverly S. Holt Professor of Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Sloan, Richard G., Victor L. Bernard-Price WaterhouseCoopers LLP Collegiate Professor of Accounting,
Stephen M. Ross School of Business, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2010


313




April Meeting, 2005


ReJappointments to Named Professor~hip
Clark, Noreen M., Marshall H. Becker Collegiate Professor of Public Health, School of Public Health,
May 1, 2005-April 30, 2010
Lovejoy, William S., Raymond T. J. Perring Family Professor of Business Administration, Stephen M.
Ross School of Business, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2010
Nix, Jamie L., Donald R. Shepherd Chair in Conducting, School of Music, September 1, 2005 -August 31, 2009
Other Transactions
Churchill, Sally Jo, Vice President and Secretary of the University, Office of the Vice President and
Secretary of the University, May 1, 2005
Eklund, Susan M., Dean of Students for Student Affairs, Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs,
April 21, 2005-June 30, 2006
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Executive Committee fo " the Life Sciences Institute
Ginsburg, David, new appointment, retroactive, April 1, 2005-March 31, 2007
Hollenberg, Paul, new appointment, retroactive, April 1, 2005-March 31, 2006
Sherman, David, new appointment, retroactive, April 1, 2005-March 31, 2007
Lichter, Allen, new appointment, retroactive, April 1, 2005-March 31, 2006
Adviso.y Board on Intercolleiate Athletics
Berent, Stanley, faculty representative, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008, vice Bonnie L. Metzger, term expired
Bezold, Carla P., student representative, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2007, vice Leanne M. Rutherford, term
expired
Potter, David S., faculty representative, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008, vice George J. Bornstein, term
expired
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Deloria, Philip J., faculty representative, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008, vice Rebecca J. Scott, term expired
Vicinus, Martha J., faculty representative, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008, vice Donald S. Lopez, Jr., term
expired
Winful, Herbert G., faculty representative, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008, vice Trevor N. Mudge, term
expired
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Al-Zoubi, Ammar, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
March 15, 2005-March 14, 2008
Dietz, Kathryn E., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, March 8, 2005 -March 7, 2007
Kopelman, Shirli J., Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Management and Organizations, Stephen M.
Ross School of Business, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2008
Melville, Nigel P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Business Information Systems, Stephen M. Ross School
of Business, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Sneider, Raymond B., D.O., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, April 1-October 31, 2005
Stutz, David, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
March 7, 2005-August 31, 2008
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Bennett, Lori J., from Lecturer to Clinical Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005


314




April M~eet~ing, 20055


Hankenson, Kurt D., Assistant Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery and Assistant Professor of Laboratory
Animal Medicine Unit, Medical School, also appointed Assistant Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, College of Engineering, January 1, 2005-December 31, 2007
Marletta, Michael A., from Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, and
Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure, Medical School, to Professor of Biological
Chemistry, without tenure, Medical School, March 1-August 31, 2005
Sundgren, Pia C. Maly, from Associate Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Radiology, Medical
School, March 15-August 31, 2005
Takami, Mimi S., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor in Internal Medicine, Medical
School, March 1, 2005-February 29, 2008
Woolf, Peter J., Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering also appointed Assistant Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Bacon, George E., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
November 1, 2004-October 31, 2005
Crowfoot, James E., Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources and Urban and Regional Planning, School
of Natural Resources and Environment, and Professor Emeritus of Environment, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2005
Ertel, Inta J., Professor Emerita of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2005
Flynn, Gordon L., Professor Emeritus of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy,
March 1, 2005-February 28, 2006
Heyn, Ruth M., Professor Emerita of Pediatrics-Hematology and Oncology, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Rae, James W., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
January 1-June 30, 2005
Shope, Thomas C., Associate Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Adler, Dorit D., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, July 5-August 4, 2005,
and December 20, 2004-February 28, 2005
Blackman, Stephen A., Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, personal
leave, May 4-13, 2005
Bradley, Robert M., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Professor of Molecular
and Integrative Physiology, without tenure, Medical School, administrative leave,
March 1-June 30, 2005
Brigido, Monica K., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, extended sick leave,
January 10-February 26, 2005
Caoili, Elaine M., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, personal leave,
March 7-29, 2005
Carter-Su, Christin, Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, with tenure, Medical School,
sabbatical leave, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Cascade, Philip N., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, and Professor of Internal Medicine, without
tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, July 1-December 31, 2004
Chandra, Charu, Associate Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave,
January 1-December 31, 2005
Ford, Richard I., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Professor of Botany, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough, September 1, 2006-May 31, 2007
Gebarski, Stephen S., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
October 1, 2004-January 31, 2005
Gerdes, David W., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Gutmann, Myron P., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
special duty assignment, March 1-August 31, 2005
Hussain, Hero K., Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, personal leave, March 1-May 31, 2005


315




April Meeting, 2005


Kileny, Paul, Professor of Otorhinolarynology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Knott, John R., Jr., Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, January 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Konuk-Agnew, Kader, Assistant Professor of German and Assistant Professor of Comparative Literature,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Krishna, Aradhna J., Isadore and Leon Winkelman Professor of Retail Marketing and Professor of
Marketing, with tenure, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Kshirsagar, Anant M., Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health, retirement
furlough, January 1-May 31, 2005
Kyes, Robert L., Professor of German, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 2005
Metzger, Joseph M., Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, with tenure, and Professor of
Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Satterfield, Teresa L., Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Schwartz, Jennifer L., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dermatology, Medical School, family medical
leave, January 19-February 22, 2005
Sears, Richard L., Associate Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, retirement furlough, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Sonda, Paul L., III., Clinical Assistant Professor Radiology, Medical School, extended sick leave,
December 14, 2004-March 5, 2005
Zhang, Jianzhi, Assistant Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2005
Zimmerman, William, IV, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, retirement furlough, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OFABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Chapman, J. Wehrley, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-December 31, 2005 (previously reported as sabbatical leave)
Toebosch, Annemarie, Assistant Professor of English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, family
medical leave, January 1-March 26, 2005, and personal leave, March 27-May 31, 2005 (previously
reported as personal leave, January 1-May 31, 2005)
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Lokam, Satyanarayana, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, May 31, 2005
Retired
Baker, Dennis G., Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure,
College of Engineering, May 31, 2005
Curtis, M. David, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
May 31, 2005
Howrey, E. Phillip, Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Professor of Statistics, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2005
Kshirsagar, Anant M., Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health, May 31, 2005
Pollack, Stephen M., Herrick Professor of Manufacturing and Professor of Industrial and Operations
Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, May 31, 2005
Tankanow, Roberta, Clinical Associate Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, May 31, 2005
Term Completed
Schilling, Stephen G., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, May 31, 2005
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Krislov, acting as vice president and
secretary of the University, submitted memoirs for four retiring faculty members.


316




April Meeting, 2005


Norman E. Alessi, M.D., professor of psychiatry, associate professor of pediatrics
and communicable diseases, and chief information officer for the Department of
Psychiatry in the Medical School, retired from active faculty status on March 25, 2005.
Dr. Alessi received his B.S. (1972) and M.D. (1976) degrees from Emory
University and completed his internship, residency training, and a research fellowship
at the University of Michigan. He joined the faculty as an assistant professor of
psychiatry in 1983 and was promoted to associate professor in 1989 and professor in
2000. He was appointed associate professor of pediatrics and communicable diseases in
1996 and chief information officer for the Department of Psychiatry in 1994.
A critical and innovative thinker, Dr. Alessi's work contributed to the University's
reputation as a leader and pioneer in the development of educational, clinical, and
research strategies. His early work focused on the identification and treatment of child
and adolescent affective disorders and the use of pharmacological agents. Later, he
broke new ground in the area of psychiatric informatics encompassing telepsychiatry,
virtual reality, and web-based research applications.  Within the department, he
established the first psychiatric informatics fellowship in the nation and was recognized
as Teacher of the Year in 1988. He served as director of the Child and Adolescent
Psychiatric Inpatient Program (1990-94), division director of Child and Adolescent
Psychiatry (1995-99), and director of the Psychiatric Informatics Program (1995-2002).
He also served on the President's Commission for the Information Revolution.
Dr. Alessi was the original visionary for the American Academy of Child and
Adolescent Psychiatry's website, and he founded the Psychiatric Society. He is a
fellow of the American Psychiatric Association and the American Academy of Child and
Adolescent Psychiatry and has been recognized in the "Guide to America's Top
Psychiatrists" and "The Best Doctors in America." He is the author of more than 100
journal articles and numerous book chapters.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming Norman Alessi professor emeritus of psychiatry and associate
professor emeritus of pediatrics and communicable diseases.
Frank E. Beaver, Ph.D., professor of film and video studies and professor of
communications in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 2004.
Professor Beaver received his B.A. and M.A. degrees from the University of North
Carolina in 1960 and 1966, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree from the University of
Michigan in 1970. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as a lecturer in
communications in 1969 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1970, associate
professor in 1974, and professor in 1984. He received an additional appointment as
professor of film and video studies in 1995.
Professor Beaver's contributions greatly enriched the culture of film within the
University, the Ann Arbor community, and beyond. He was the editor of Twayne's
Filmmakers Series, which documented the work of filmmakers such as Martin Scorsese,
David Lynch, Ingmar Bergman, and Sydney Lumet, and he is well-known for writing
On Film: A History of the Motion Picture, Dictionary of Film Terms, and several books
on American filmmaker Oliver Stone. Professor Beaver authored numerous articles and
reviews in professional journals and broadcast more than 700 film reviews and media
critiques on Michigan Radio. He was a contributor to the Detroit Free Press, The Wall


317




April Meeting, 2005


Street Journal, Newsweek, and WJR Radio, and he served on the Michigan Theater's
advisory council and board of trustees.
Professor Beaver was chair of the Department of Communications from 1987-91
and served as chair of the Summer Program in London through the Office of
International Programs in the 1990s.  A  much-loved teacher and mentor for
undergraduate students in the film and video studies program, he also taught film
history and documentary film courses in freshman seminars. Professor Beaver is the
recipient of numerous teaching awards and honors, including an Amoco Outstanding
Teaching Award in 1985 and an Arthur F. Thurnau Professorship from 1989-92.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Frank E. Beaver
professor emeritus of film and video studies and professor emeritus of communications.
E. Philip Howrey, Ph.D., professor of economics, professor of statistics, and
research scientist in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 2004.
Professor Howrey received his A.B. degree from Drake University in 1959 and his
Ph.D. degree from the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill in 1964. From
1964-73 he served on the faculties of Princeton University and the University of
Pennsylvania.  He joined the University of Michigan faculty as a professor of
economics in 1973 and received additional appointments as professor of statistics in
1977 and research scientist in 1979.
Professor Howrey   has made distinguished  contributions to time series
econometrics, forecasting, and the analysis of aggregate business conditions. His
research meshed contributions to econometric theory with applications to important
issues in economic policy. Professor Howrey's early work focused on how to take into
account randomness in macroeconomic policy analysis. More recently, he has explored
how to use imperfectly measured economic variables for forecasting and policy
analysis. Throughout his career, his research has addressed the problem of prediction of
macroeconomic aggregates.
Since 1980, Professor Howrey has been associated with the Research Seminar in
Quantitative Economics-the forecasting program of the economics department known
by its acronym: RSQE. He served as chair of the Model Comparison Seminar, which is
an international project whose purpose is to compare and improve macroeconomic
forecasting models. He has collaborated with modeling groups at numerous centers of
economic modeling activity throughout the United States. A beloved teacher and
advisor, Professor Howrey caused many students to consider econometrics to be their
favorite subject.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming E. Philip Howrey
professor emeritus of economics, professor emeritus of statistics, and research scientist
emeritus.
Eugene M. Silverman, M.D., clinical associate professor of pathology in the
Medical School, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2004.
Dr. Silverman received his B.S. degree from Brooklyn College in 1959 and his M.D.
degree from New York University in 1963. After completing an internship at Maimonides
Hospital and a year of residency training at Montefiore Hospital, Dr. Silverman served with
the U.S. Medical Army Corps in France and the Supreme Headquarters for the Allied
Powers in Belgium (1965-1968). Upon discharge, he enrolled in the University of
Michigan's residency training program. He joined the University's faculty as an


318




April Meeting, 2005


instructor in 1972 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1975 and associate
professor in 1979. During this phase of his career, he was primarily associated with a
joint program between the University and Wayne County General Hospital, where he
was in charge of the Hematology Outpatient and Microbiology Laboratories, vice
president of the medical staff (1980-82), and president of the medical staff (1982-85).
In 1986, after the University's working relationship with Wayne County General
Hospital ended, Dr. Silverman returned to the Medical School as a clinical associate
professor and as associate director of the MLabs Outreach Program; he was promoted to
director in 1991.  The outstanding success of MLabs is directly related to his
administrative and clinical expertise. Dr. Silverman has been instrumental in the
successful recruitment of hospitals, clinics, and physicians who utilize the professional
laboratory services provided by MLabs. Dr. Silverman also has served as director of a
number of community hospital laboratories, and he is a University of Michigan Hospital
and Health Centers representative to the Joint Venture Hospital Laboratories program
administered by the Michigan Health Corporation. This program consists of a network
of hospitals and institutions in the State of Michigan who have negotiated managed care
contracts with insurance carriers to provide laboratory services.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Eugene M.
Silverman clinical associate professor emeritus of pathology.
Memorials. Vice President Krislov, acting as vice president and secretary of the
University, reported the death of Phelix B. Hanible, associate university librarian for
technical and access services. President Coleman commented on the recent death of
Ardyth "Sally" Fleming, wife of President Emeritus Robben Fleming. She noted how
warm and gracious the Flemings had been when she and her husband first arrived at the
University and expressed condolences to the Fleming family on behalf of the
University.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death on March 5, 2005, of Phelix B. Hanible, associate university librarian for
technical and access services in the University Library. Ms. Hanible died at the age of
56 on March 5, 2005.
During her career, Ms. Hanible worked in a number of high profile, dynamic
organizations with a rich variety of experiences, including technical services, public
services, and administration.  She began her career at University Microfilms
International, where she was a catalog librarian for the research collection, a manager of
cataloging operations, and an editor for student reference projects. Ms. Hanible then
joined the University of Michigan faculty as the head of the Original Cataloging Unit
and was later appointed assistant to the dean for strategic planning and total quality
management. She left the University to take on leadership roles at the Online Computer
Library  Center, the  University  of Southern  California, and  University  of
Massachusetts's Amherst Library, but she returned to her alma mater in 2003 as
associate university librarian for technical and access services.
An accomplished librarian and exceptional scholar, Ms. Hanible generously
contributed to both the advancement of the University Library and to the field of
librarianship through her numerous professional activities. She authored an extensive
list of articles, made numerous presentations, and provided consulting services to other
organizations. She was extremely active in the American Library Association and
represented the University Library on several state-level library committees.


319




April Meeting, 2005


As we mourn the loss of this distinguished colleague and librarian, our
condolences go to her family.
Degrees.  Provost Courant submitted recommendations for approval of the
doctoral degree list for the April 2005 commencement, the final degree list for the Fall
2004 Law School commencement, and changes to previously approved degree lists.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
The Regents then turned to consideration of the regular agenda.
University Real Estate Policy
Executive Vice President Slottow submitted for information the new University
Policy on the Acceptance, Management and Disposition of real estate, which replaces the
real estate policies approved by the Regents in 1989 and 1993 (see the appendix on page
329). He also noted that this policy supplements a new Standard Practice Guide # 601.23
policy on real estate transactions that had been issued on April 11, 2005. Copies of all
documents are included as part of the Regents Communication.
Fiscal Year 2005 Supplemental Capital Outlay Submission All Campuses
Executive Vice President Slottow reported that in March 2005 the University was
asked by the state to submit a supplemental Capital Outlay request for fiscal year 2005. In
response, the Ann Arbor campus submitted three renovation projects for funding:
Observatory Lodge, Phoenix Memorial Laboratory, and the Student Activities Building.
The costs for these three projects will total $29.5 million. The Flint campus requested one
project to renovate French Hall and Murchie Science Building for a total of $9.35 million.
No projects were submitted for the Dearborn campus.
Vice President Wilbanks noted that both the Senate and House had approved the
Capital Outlay bill and the governor was expected to sign it very soon. President
Coleman expressed appreciation to the state for being willing to provide funding for
capital outlay projects during a difficult financial time.
Financial Statements and Reports Pursuant to Federal Office of Management and
Budget (0MB) Circular A-133
Executive Vice President Slottow submitted Reports on Federal Awards in
accordance with OMB Circular A-133 for the year ended June 30, 2004. The audit of
compliance was conducted by independent auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers, who found
that the University has complied, in all material respects, with the requirements applicable
to each of its major federal programs for the year ended June 30, 2004.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Sankaty Credit Opportunities II, L.P.)
Executive Vice President Slottow reported that a follow-on investment of $40.0
million had been made to Sankaty Credit Opportunities II, L.P.


320




April Meeting, 2005


Alternative Asset Commitment (CVC European Equity Partners IV, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a commitment of ~25 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
CVC European Equity Partners IV, L.P.
Alternative Asset Commitment (LaSalle Asia Opportunity Fund II, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $20 million to LaSalle Asia Opportunity Fund II,
L.P.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Blum Strategic Partners III, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $40 million from the Long Term Portfolio to Blum
Strategic Partners III, L.P. Regent Newman recused herself from voting due to a conflict
of interest.
Appointment of Auditors
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, and on the
recommendation of the Regents' Finance, Audit and Investment Committee, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as external
auditors for the 2004-2005 fiscal year.
202 South Thayer Project
Executive Vice President Slottow said that this facility will house three LSA
departments currently housed in the Frieze Building as well as the Humanities Institute,
currently housed in the Rackham Building. Cost constraints and timing issues have
provided significant challenges in planning this project, as planned construction on the
Frieze site cannot begin until this building has been completed. He introduced Don
Schmitt from Diamond Schmitt Architects.
Mr. Schmitt displayed renderings of the site plan and site location, described the
design concept, and reviewed schematic designs for each floor.  He displayed
renderings of various exterior views of the building. Provost Courant commented on
the extraordinary collaborative effort among the academic departments and facilities
staff that has resulted in significant acceleration of the normal time frame for planning
of a new academic building.
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the schematic design for the 202 South Thayer Building Project
as presented at the meeting and authorized issuing of the remaining bid packages and
awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
South Campus Power and Telecommunication Duct Extensions
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved the South Campus Power and Telecommunications Duct
Extensions Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.


321




April Meeting, 2005


Observatory Lodge Renovation
It was noted that this project is included as part of the Fiscal Year 2005
Supplemental Capital Outlay Request to the State of Michigan. The project will be used
to provide office and classroom space for the Division of Kinesiology. It was noted that
the renovation of this building, which was built in 1930, will be sensitive to the building's
historic character, and many of its defining features will be restored. On a motion by
Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the
Observatory Lodge Renovation Project as described and authorized commissioning
Einhom Yaffee Prescott for its design.
Washington Street Utility Upgrade
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the Washington Street Utility Upgrade Project as described and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that
bids are within the approved budget.
Donor Pooled Income Fund
Executive Vice President Slottow explained that two technical changes are necessary
in the University of Michigan Donor Pooled Income Fund (DPIF). These are described in
detail in the Regents Communication. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent
Maynard, the Regents unanimously authorized execution of a "Release of Power to
Adjust from Principal to Income" and adoption of an amendment to the DPIF Declaration
of Trust to change its valuation dates. Both documents are included as attachments to the
Regents Communication.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes 11 conflict of interest items,
each of which requires 6 votes for approval. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded
by Regent White, the Regents unanimously approved each of the following items:
Lease Agreement with William C. Martin
The Regents approved a lease with William C. Martin for 3,410 square feet of
property on the third level of a building located at 330 East Liberty Street. Because
William C. Martin is a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
William C. Martin.
2.   The service to be provided is the lease of a 3,410 square foot in a building at 330 East
Liberty Street for fourteen months, beginning May 1, 2005 through June 30, 2006, at a
monthly rate of $6,251.66. Tenant will be responsible for gas and electric usage plus
janitorial service. In addition, approximately $5,000 of leasehold improvements will
be needed, to be constructed by the landlord and reimbursed by the University.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that William C. Martin is a University of
Michigan employee.


322




April Meeting, 2005


Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and NeuroNexus, LLC
The Regents approved an option agreement between the University of Michigan and
NeuroNexus, LLC for the following technology files: No. 0953, No. 2533, No. 2728, and
No. 2662. Because Drs. Daryl Kipke, David Anderson, and Jamille Hetke are employees
of the University of Michigan and also partial owners and officers of NeuroNexus, LLC,
this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
NeuroNexus, LLC ("NN").
2.   The University will grant NN an exclusive option for 12 months with the ability to
extend the terms. The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and
may continue to further develop it and use it internally. No use of University services
or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is obligated or contemplated
under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees and indemnification apply,
and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Kipke, Anderson, and Hetke arise from their
ownership interest in NN. They have waived any personal participation in the sharing
of revenue received by the University from the company.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Mayaterials Co.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with Mayaterials Co. ("Company")
through which the Company will fund a project in the College of Engineering. Because
Dr. Richard Laine is both a University of Michigan employee and a founder and owner of
the Company, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Mayaterials Co.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
for the project is twenty-four (24) months and the amount of funding support is
$600,000. The agreement allows amendment by mutual agreement of the parties.
University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and additional
review by the Conflict of Interest Review Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Laine's pecuniary interest arises from his status as founder and owner of
Mayaterials Co. He will not participate in the project in his capacity as a University
employee.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Internet 2
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and Internet 2 through which Internet 2 will provide services under a National Science
Foundation grant. Because Dr. Douglas Van Houweling is both a University of Michigan
employee and is also president and CEO of Intemrnet 2, this agreement falls under the State
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Internet 2.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The project will be
conducted over a one-year period at an estimated total cost of $34,534, including
indirect cost at 30%.


323




April Meeting, 2005


3.   Douglas Van Houweling's pecuniary interest arises from his status as president and
CEO of Internet 2. He will not be participating in this project either in his capacity as
an employee of the University of as an employee of Internet 2.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Nanobiologics, LLC
The Regents approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Nanobiologics, LLC. Because Drs. James Baker and Tarek Hamouda are both employees
of the University and partial owners of Nanobiologics, this agreement falls under the State
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Nanobiologics, LLC.
2.   License terms include giving Nanobiologics an exclusive license with the right to
grant sublicenses. Nanobiologics will pay a royalty on sales and reimburse patent
costs. The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may
continue to further develop it and use it internally. No use of University services or
facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is obligated or contemplated
under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees and indemnification apply,
and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Baker and Hamouda arise from their ownership
interest in Nanobiologics. They have waived any personal participation in the sharing
of revenue received by the University.
Amendment to License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Oncolmmune LLP
The Regents approved an amendment to a license agreement between the University
of Michigan and Oncolmmune LLP. Because Professor Kun-Liang Guan is both a
University of Michigan employee and a partial owner of Oncolmmune, this agreement
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information
is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Oncolmmune.
2.   Amendment terms include adding the new technology to the existing exclusive license
with the right to grant sublicenses. Oncolmmune will pay a royalty on sales and
reimburse patent costs.  The University will retain ownership of the licensed
technology and may continue to further develop it and use it internally. No use of
University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is
obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees
and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed, and additional
review by the Medical School Conflict of Interest Board will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Dr. Guan arises from his ownership interest in Oncolmmune.
He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the
University.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Michigan Critical
Care Consultants, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc. which will allow the University to assist
with the development of an artificial lung. Because Dr. Robert Bartlett is both a


324




April M~eet~ing, 20055


University of Michigan employee and a part owner of Michigan Critical Care
Consultants, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Michigan Critical Care
Consultants, Inc.
2.   Under the project, a total subcontract of $467,532 is anticipated to cover the period
November 1, 2004, through October 21, 2007. The University's standard subcontract
provisions will apply. Since research agreements are often amended, the subcontract
includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope of the research. University
procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and additional review by
the Medical School Conflict of Interest Board will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Bartlett's pecuniary interest arises from his status as a part owner of Michigan
Critical Care Consultants. He will serve as a co-investigator on the project in his
University capacity.
Agreements between       the University    of Michigan    and   Sarcoma Alliance for
Research through Collaboration
The Regents approved agreements between the University of Michigan and Sarcoma
Alliance for Research through Collaboration (SARC). Because Dr. Laurence Baker is
both a University of Michigan employee and co-founder, executive director, president,
and director of SARC, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreements are the University of Michigan and Sarcoma Alliance for
Research through Collaboration (SARC).
2.   The terms of the agreements are acceptable and conform to University policy. The
amounts of the two agreements to the University are $17,500 and $52,500,
respectively. The periods of performance are both twelve months. Human subject
approval will be obtained prior to commencement of the clinical trials.
3.   Dr. Baker receives no compensation from SARC and has no financial interest in
SARC. Dr. Baker will serve as a co-investigator for each of the clinical trials to be
conducted.
Amendment to License Agreement between the University of Michigan                    and
Molecular Therapeutics, Inc.
The Regents approved an amendment to a license agreement between the University
of Michigan and Molecular Therapeutics, Inc. Because Professors Brian D. Ross and
Alnawaz Rehemtulla are both employees of the University and partial owners of
Molecular Therapeutics, Inc., this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Molecular Therapeutics,
Inc.
2.   License terms include giving Molecular Therapeutics an exclusive license with the
right to grant sublicenses. Molecular Therapeutics will pay a royalty on sales and
reimburse patent costs.  The University will retain ownership of the licensed
technology and may continue to further develop it and use it internally. No use of


325




April Mi/eeting, 2005


University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is
obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees
and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and additional
review by the Medical School Conflict of Interest Board will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Dr. Ross arises from his ownership interest in Molecular
Therapeutics. Dr. Ross has waived any personal participation in the sharing of
revenue received by the University. Dr. Moffat will share royalties pursuant to the
standard University distribution policy.
Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and ViDx, LLC
The Regents approved an option agreement between the University of Michigan and
ViDx, LLC. ViDx, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of SensiGen, LLC, was formed to
commercialize additional technology invented by Dr. Kumit, known as UM OTT File No.
2909. Because Dr. David M. Kumit is both a University of Michigan employee and an
owner, officer, and member of SensiGen, LLC, this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.      The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements.
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and ViDx,
LLC.
2.   Option terms include giving ViDx, LLC an exclusive option with the right to evaluate
the invention and to determine whether to negotiate and enter into a license. The
University will retain ownership of the optioned technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it internally. No use of University services or facilities, nor
any assignment of University employees, is obligated or contemplated under the
agreement. Standard disclaimers of warranties and indemnification apply, and the
option may be amended by consent of the parties involved. University procedures for
approval of these changes will be followed and additional review by the Medical
School Conflict of Interest Board will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Kumit's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in SensiGen that
wholly owns ViDx, LLC. He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of
revenue received by the University.
Reassignment Agreement between the University of Michigan and Steven F.
Bolling, M.D.
The Regents approved a reassignment agreement between the University of
Michigan and Professor Steven F. Bolling for the technology, "Tricuspid Valve Ring for
Molding Ventricular Geometry" (UM OTT File No. 3085). Because Professor Bolling is
both a University of Michigan employee and also a party to the agreement with the
University, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Steven F. Bolling, M.D.
2.   Reassignment terms include Dr. Bolling being responsible for all patent expenses and
paying to the University 15% of royalties, equity, or other value received through
subsequent marketing and licensing of the invention.
Dr. Bolling will obtain ownership of the licensed technology and, unless appropriate
formal University approvals are obtained, continuing development of the invention
will take place without the use of University funds or facilities or funds administered
by the University.


326




April Meeting, 2005


No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of
warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract maybe amended by consent of
the parties. University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and
additional review by the Medical School Conflict of Interest Board will be done as
appropriate.
3.   Dr. Bolling's pecuniary interest arises from his future ownership of the technology.
Michigan Nanotechnology Institute for Medicine and the Biological Sciences
It was noted that this institute brings together researchers in the physical, medical,
and biological sciences in support of nanotechnology applications. Regent McGowan
commented that this institute is an outstanding example of the University's leadership in
interdisciplinary research, and she moved approval of the establishment of the Michigan
Nanotechnology Institute for Medicine and the Biological Sciences and the appointment
of Dr. James R. Baker, Jr., as director, effective May 1, 2005. Regent Taylor seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Change in Name of the Frederick and         Barbara  M. Erb    Environmental
Management Institute
Regent Taylor moved to change the name of the Frederick and Barbara M. Erb
Environmental Management Institute to the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Institute for
Global Sustainable Enterprise. Regent Brandon seconded the motion. Provost Courant
commented that this institute is another example of Michigan's leadership in
interdisciplinary studies, as this institute is jointly operated by the Stephen M. Ross
School of Business and the School of Natural Resources and Environment.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Change in Name of the Mental Health Research Institute
It was noted that the term "neuroscience" was coined by a University of Michigan
faculty member, and the proposed name change would better reflect the history, mission,
and work of the institute. On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard,
the Regents unanimously approved a change in the name of the Mental Health Research
Institute to The Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience Institute, and a corresponding
change in Regents' Bylaw 11.40, effective April 21, 2005.
A five-minute break followed, from 4:05-4:10 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people on the topic of amending
the Regents Bylaws to include a nondiscrimination statement regarding gender identity or
expression: Stephen Rassi, student and member of Wolverine Coalition for Human
Rights and the Rainbow Network; Steve Sanders, student, and member of Outlaws; Beth
Bashert, citizen and director of development and public relations of the Ruth Ellis Center;
Andre Wilson, student and co-chair of TransForUM; and Holly Burmeister, student and
member of Transgender Michigan. The following individuals spoke on the topic of
formation of an investigative committee on University investments in Israel: David


327




April Meeting, 2005


Golbahar, student; and Mohammed Jawad Elghoul, Tarek Dika, and Carmel Salhi,
students and members of Students Allied for Freedom and Equality. Other speakers
included Jim Mogensen, citizen, on the town-gown relationship; Amy Keller, student and
former president of the Residence Halls Association (RHA), to introduce the new RHA
president; and Jeffrey Huo, student and member of the Galens Medical Society, on the
Galens' gift to the Children's and Women's Hospital Replacement Project.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 5:00 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for May 19, 2005.
Marvin Krisolov
acting as Vice President and Secretary of the University


328




APRIL MEETING, 2005 - APPENDIX


POLICY AND PROCEDURE ON THE ACCEPTANCE, MANAGEMENT AND
DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE
APRIL 11, 2005
The Office of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (EVPCFO)
issues this Policy and Procedure on the Acceptance, Management and Disposition of
Real Estate under the authority granted to the EVPCFO in the Regents Bylaws and
Regental action of April 18, 2002. This policy replaces all prior policies on the subject
and remains in effect until amended or revoked. This policy supplements SPG 601.23
on real estate transactions (attached) and, like SPG 601.23, should be distributed to all
of your affected staff. In addition, Hank Baier, Associate Vice President for Facilities
and Operations, and Sally Churchill, Assistant General Counsel, will make a brief
presentation on this new policy and SPG to the Academic Program Group, the Budget
Administrators Group, the Facilities Users Network, the Development Office and any
other groups you request. If you have any questions about either the policy or the SPG
please contact me.
I.   Overview
The University's Real Estate Office is located within Plant Extension at 326 E. Hoover
Street, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1002, 763-2302. The Real Estate Office reports to the
EVPCFO through the Associate Vice President for Facilities and Operations (AVPF&O).
The Real Estate Office, in close consultation with the AVPF&O and EVPCFO, handles
all real estate matters at the University, including those involving the Hospitals and Health
Centers, UM-Flint and UM-Dearbomrn. When a real estate transaction involves a gift, they
also work closely with the Office of the Vice President for Development staff (OVPD)
and unit development staff. The Real Estate Office also works in close collaboration
with the Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs (Provost) to
implement this policy.
This Policy and Procedure on the Acceptance, Management and Disposition of Real
Estate describes the policies and procedures by which the University acquires (by gift
or otherwise), manages and disposes of real estate.
II. Procedures for Accepting Gifts of Real Estate
This section describes the process for accepting gifts of real estate. The appropriate
development staff from OVPD or units will be responsible for maintaining contact with
the donor, while the Real Estate Office will handle all other aspects of the real estate
transaction.
A. Due Diligence
The Real Estate Office first evaluates whether to accept a proposed gift
of real estate from an academic perspective, which includes teaching,
research and service. If the offered property is near campus, research or
teaching facilities, or it has potential use by a unit, the Real Estate Office
determines the interest of the appropriate unit. If the property is


329




April Meeting, 2005- Appendix


inappropriate for academic use, the Real Estate Office, in collaboration
with development staff and the Provost's Office, considers whether to
accept the property for the purpose of selling it, taking into account
management responsibilities, risk, valuation and opportunities to dispose
of the property. Factors the Real Estate Office considers are:
Can the property be offered for exchange to a governmental entity for
other real estate that better serves the University's purpose?
What are the management responsibilities and risks, and how do they
compare to potential sale proceeds?
What are the transaction costs of a sale (such as legal fees and broker
commission)?
Is the unit that benefits from the gift willing to pay the transaction costs?
If due diligence is otherwise favorable but valuation is minimal, donor
stewardship and overall donor relationship may be considered.
The Real Estate Office will ask development staff to obtain a completed
gift property questionnaire in consultation with the donor to establish
basic information about the real estate. If based on this information and
evaluation the Real Estate Office decides to further consider the gift, the
potential donor will be asked to submit or permit the following:
1. For gifts of a single-family residence (i.e., single family
homes, duplexes, condominium units, single family homes that
have been made into apartments and vacant lots in a developed
residential area) the Real Estate Office will require:
a. An on-site inspection and transactional screen or comparable
appropriate inquiry prepared for the Real Estate Office by the
University's Occupational Safety and Environmental Health Department
(OSEH) or its consultant, in cooperation with the donor. The University
will cover the costs of this as part of the transaction costs.
i. If this assessment reveals there is or may be environmental
impairment, the Real Estate Office will decline the gift, accept
the gift, or follow the procedure outlined in 2., below.
b. An indemnity through which the donor indemnifies the University for
liabilities arising from pre-existing environmental impairment. If the
environmental assessment reveals there is or may be environmental
impairment and the Real Estate Office accepts the gift, the indemnity
may be limited to undisclosed risks.
c. Appropriate warranties and representations regarding the
environmental condition of the property and compliance with applicable
laws.
d. Other documents that are appropriate based on applicable law.


330




April Meeting, 2005- Appendix


2. For gifts of non-residential property the Real Estate Office
will require:
a. A Phase I environmental assessment or comparable appropriate
inquiry prepared for the Real Estate Office by the University's
consultant in cooperation with the donor. The donor will be expected to
pay this cost.
i. If this environmental assessment reveals that there is or may be
environmental impairment, the Real Estate Office will decline the
gift, accept the gift, or follow the procedure outlined in 3., below.
b. An indemnity through which the donor indemnifies the University for
liabilities arising from pre-existing environmental impairment. If the
environmental assessment reveals there is or may be environmental
impairment and the Real Estate Office accepts the gift, the indemnity
may be limited to undisclosed risks.
c. Appropriate warranties and representations regarding the
environmental condition of the real estate and compliance with
applicable laws.
d. Other documents that are appropriate based on applicable law.
3. For all properties where the Phase I or comparable
appropriate inquiry reveals that there is or may be
environmental impairment, the Real Estate Office may require:
a. A Phase II or comparable appropriate inquiry prepared for the Real
Estate Office by the University's consultant in cooperation with the
donor. The donor will be expected to pay this cost.
b. A baseline environmental assessment authorized by Part 201 of the
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act (MCL 324.20101
et seq.) for real estate located in Michigan, or the assessment authorized
by the jurisdiction where the real estate is located, if applicable, in
cooperation with the donor. The University will pay this cost.
c. An indemnity through which the donor indemnifies the University for
liabilities arising from pre-existing contamination. If the additional
environmental assessment reveals there is or may be environmental
impairment and the Real Estate Office accepts the gift, the indemnity
may be limited to undisclosed risks.
d. Appropriate warranties and representations regarding the
environmental condition of the property and compliance with
environmental laws.
e. Other documents that are appropriate based on applicable law.
4. For all gifts of real estate (residential and non-residential),
the Real Estate Office will require (at donor's expense), as
appropriate,


331




April Meeting, 2005 - Appendix


a. a survey if the University concludes it is necessary for use or sale
b. a title commitment of nominal value showing donor's interest in the
property and the condition of title
c. a qualified appraisal or other market analysis such as comparables
5. If the University decides to accept the gift under B., below,
the parties will execute a gift agreement prepared by the
University's Development Legal Office of the Office of the
General Counsel. The following will also be expected of the
donor:
* A draft deed and a signed original warranty deed in
recordable form at closing
*  A title policy at closing
*  A commitment to pay property taxes, assessments and
other expenses on the real estate to the date of the gift
*  A trust agreement acceptable to the University if the real
estate is used to fund a charitable remainder trust
*  For life estate arrangements, a commitment to pay all
expenses, including maintenance costs and property
taxes, until the University assumes full ownership.
B. Acceptance of the Gift
If due diligence is favorable the EVPCFO will accept the gift or ask the
Regents to accept the gift pursuant to Bylaw 3.05, which requires
Regental approval if maintenance of the gift will add to the ordinary
operating budget of the University. If the gift is accepted, the property
will be (a) used for an academic or administrative purpose or (b) added
to the University's inventory of real estate available for sale. If the
property is sold, the department benefiting from the gift will receive the
net sale proceeds after accounting for transaction costs. When the
EVPCFO accepts the gift without Regental approval pursuant Bylaw
3.05, the gift acceptance will be reported to the Regents in the OVPD's
monthly Report on Voluntary Support.
C. Modifications of Procedures for Gifts
The EVPCFO may modify these real estate procedures, except those in
the Bylaws, when the offered property has strategic value because it is
adjacent to University property or will be used for a University purpose,
or when otherwise merited by special circumstances.
III. Acquisition of University Real Estate
This section describes explains how the University acquires real estate other than through
donations.


332




April Meeting, 2005 - Appendix


A. Due Diligence
When the Real Estate Office learns of the potential availability of
strategically located property that office notifies the AVPF&O,
determines valuation, and undertakes due diligence. Valuation is
determined through an appraisal or market analysis such as review of
comparables. Due diligence includes an inspection by the Real Estate
Office and OSEH, a review of title work, a survey if needed, and other
activities appropriate to the circumstances. The Real Estate Office
negotiates an acceptable purchase agreement with the property owner
before undertaking due diligence. This agreement addresses the terms
and conditions of a sale (e.g. price, earnest money, closing date, title
company and the required contingency that the purchase will not occur
without Regental approval).
The Real Estate Office works closely with the Office of the Vice
President and General Counsel throughout the process.
B. Regental Approval of the Acquisition
If an acceptable purchase agreement is negotiated and due diligence
favorable, the EVPCFO will ask the Regents to approve the purchase. If
the transaction is consummated, the property becomes part of the
University's real estate inventory and is then used for its intended
academic or administrative purpose.
IV. Disposition of Real Estate
This section describes how the University disposes of real estate, whether it came to the
University as a gift or in some other manner.
A. Approval Process
Bylaw 3.07 says the Regents must approve the sale of any University
real estate. The only exception is gifted property that is not located near
one of the campuses, which pursuant to Bylaw 3.07 may be sold by the
EVPCFO and reported to the Regents. Such properties must be sold for
the appraised value or more except when the University is not the sole
owner of all property interests, in which instance the University
cooperates with the owners of the remaining property interests to
accomplish the sale.
B. Sales Procedures
Whenever the University considers selling real estate (except gifted
property referenced in A, above), the Real Estate Office first consults the
appropriate University units to determine whether a sale is appropriate.
A sale is generally considered only when the property has no immediate
or foreseeable use and market conditions are considered. If based upon
these inquiries the EVPCFO concludes a sale is appropriate, the Real
Estate Office obtains an appraisal or reviews comparables to establish
price. The University then offers the property for sale using, to the fullest


333




April Meeting, 2005- Appendix


extent possible, competitive practices and one or more of the following
methods:
SUse of a Realtor/Broker: The University may retain a realtor or
broker, whose commission is negotiated based on local market
conditions. The University requires the realtor or broker to use
appropriate strategies to obtain the most favorable terms and conditions
for the University. The Real Estate Office will establish acceptable
terms but the realtor/broker negotiates with potential buyers.. The Bid Process: The Real Estate Office may contact adjacent owners
and advertise in local newspapers, describing the bid process, estimated
value or price, and deadline. In this situation, the Real Estate Office
handles the transaction without a realtor, seeking the most favorable
terms and conditions for the University.
SPosting signs: The Real Estate Office may post "for sale" signs on the
property and advertise in local newspapers. The Real Estate Office also
handles this transaction without a realtor, seeking the most favorable
terms and conditions for the University.
These last two methods are used together when feasible.
The Real Estate Office evaluates all offers, taking into consideration
price, timing, contingencies, proposed use and any other University
priorities. That office selects the best offer and negotiates terms (price,
due diligence, and contingencies), which are incorporated into a
purchase agreement. Unless the real estate is gifted real estate located
away from the three campuses (which can be sold by the EVPCFO), the
purchase agreement will require Regental approval of the sale. There is
a presumption in favor of retaining the mineral interests on properties
sold by the University but the EVPCFO may make an exception under
appropriate circumstances.
If the buyer is satisfied with due diligence, the EVPCFO asks the
Regents to approve the sale. If the sale is consummated, the EVPCFO
decides upon the appropriate distribution of sale proceeds within the
University.
C. Other Disposition
On rare occasions the University disposes of relatively small, incidental
parcels of real estate without invoking the sales procedures described in
B., above. These transfers arise from property management concerns
such as right-of-way or boundary issues, and often involve a unit of
government such as a state agency (Michigan Department of
Transportation or Michigan Department of Natural Resources) or the
local municipality. In such circumstances, the EVPCFO may ask the
Regents to authorize transfer of ownership through a quit claim of
nominal value or based on appraised value rather than follow the
competitive practices described in B., above.


334




ApriI Meeting,2005 -Appendix


V.     Real Estate Management
SPG 601.23 provides details on the University's standard practices for all real estate
transactions. This SPG makes clear that, with the exception of certain authority given to
the Hospitals and Health Centers and the Chancellors at U-M Flint and U-M Dearborn,
the Real Estate Office is responsible for the management of all leases on and off campus
(including build to suit arrangements, contracts for renovation of non-University space,
capital leases and lease-to-buy arrangements), and all other types of real estate
transactions such as purchases and sales, new real estate developments and access to
University property. The EVPCFO will seek Regental approval for all leases (on and off
campus) when (a) the square footage being leased through a single lease exceeds 50,000
square feet; (b) there are existing leases with the University in a particular building or a
related complex of buildings and the square footage being leased through any new or
revised lease would cause the total amount of leased square footage in the building or
related complex of buildings to exceed 50,000 square feet; or (c) the lease duration to
which the University is committed at any given time exceeds ten (10) years. The
EVPCFO will annually report to Regents in an information item all situations where the
total square footage being leased in a particular building or in a related complex of
buildings exceeds 50,000 square feet.
Annually, the EVPCFO will provide the Finance, Audit and Investment Committee of
the Regents a detailed report on the current commercial leasing portfolio.


335




AriI\Meeting,2005-Apendix


336




MAY MEETING, 2005


The University oftMichigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, Miay 19, 2005
The Regents convened at 2:10 p.m. in the Fairlane Center South Building on the
University of Michigan-Dearborn campus. Present were President Coleman and
Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner, Taylor, and White.
Also present were Vice President and Secretary Churchill, Provost Courant, Vice
President Harper, Executive Vice President Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor
Little, Vice President May, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice
President Slottow, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Call to Order
President Coleman called the meeting to order and said how pleased everyone was to
be meeting on the Dearborn campus. She noted that leaders of the three campuses have
been exploring ways in which the three campuses can leverage and build on each other's
strengths for the benefit of all. This meeting on the Dearborn campus offers another
opportunity to foster this type of dialog.
President Coleman noted that the University had recently announced the
establishment of its new Detroit Center on Woodward Avenue in downtown Detroit.
This center will house many of the University's long-standing programs in Detroit from
both the Dearborn and Ann Arbor campuses and will provide an opportunity for
enhanced collaboration. She called attention to agenda items, including an addition to
the Kelsey Museum that will be entirely funded by a generous gift from Edwin and
Mary Meader and by a challenge grant from the National Endowment for the
Humanities, and the renovation of Mosher-Jordan Hall as part of the Residential Life
Initiative.
President Coleman also noted with regret the recent passing of James Brinkerhoff,
chief financial officer from 1977-1988, and former athletic director Don Canham.
Presentation: The "Metropolitan Vision" for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Chancellor Little gave a presentation on the wide-ranging discussions that have been
taking place regarding the role that the Dearborn campus can play both within the
University of Michigan and within the metropolitan Detroit region. The vision that has
emerged would fit the campus's history and strengths, deepen its regional impact, and
complement the University of Michigan as a whole. Concisely stated, the campus would
aim to deliver the academic excellence of the University of Michigan in leadership and
service to metropolitan Detroit.
Chancellor Little explained how the University of Michigan-Dearborn exemplifies
an emerging category of American universities, the "metropolitan university." The
campus envisions becoming a nationally recognized leader as a selective metropolitan
university, focusing on the needs of metropolitan Detroit, and becoming a leader in


337




M'ay Meeting, 2005


creating a successful future for southeast Michigan. To do this, the Dearborn campus
will focus on such issues as the future of manufacturing and global competitiveness;
race and ethnicity issues; environmental issues; pre-K-12 education; and developing a
regional leadership capacity. Chancellor Little noted that there are already a number of
programs in place in these areas. He pointed out that enrollment growth is key to all of
the strategies planned for the campus, and the goal is to achieve an enrollment of 12,000
students by 2014.
President Coleman asked Chancellor Little to comment on student retention issues.
He noted that although the 6-year graduation rate appears to be unacceptably low, many
of the students have transferred to and graduated from other institutions. Nevertheless,
campus leaders are working to achieve an increase in the number of students who
remain and graduate from the University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that he
and committee members White and Taylor had met that morning and had focused
primarily on the internal audit activities provided by the Office of University Audits. The
committee received the regular bimonthly update and six-month report on audit activity
and then shifted to a discussion with Carol Senneff, executive director of University
audits, of risk assessment and the FY 2006 audit plan. Ms. Senneff also reviewed her
strategic vision and her organizational strategy for the Office of University Audits. The
committee also received a regular update on the Life Sciences Institute.
Personnel, Compensation and Governance Committee.      Regent Maynard
reported that she, along with Regents Deitch, Richner, and McGowan, had met and
received a report on staff employment from Laurita Thomas, associate vice president
and chief human resource officer, and an update on dean searches from Provost
Courant. The committee also discussed with Vice President Churchill plans for
conducting the Board's upcoming presidential performance review.
Annual Promotions to the Ranks of Professor and Associate Professor
Provost Courant summarized the promotion review process and noted that this year,
for the first time, many of the reviews were done electronically and next year the entire
process will be conducted in this fashion through a secure server. He called attention to
the following individuals as examples of exemplary promotions on the Ann Arbor
campus:   Barbara L. Fredrickson, recommended for promotion to professor of
psychology, with tenure, in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and professor
of management and organizations, without tenure, in the Stephen M. Ross School of
Business; Sharon C. Glotzer, recommended for promotion to professor of chemical
engineering with tenure, professor of materials science and engineering without tenure,
and professor of macromolecular science and engineering without tenure in the College of
Engineering, and professor of physics without tenure in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts; Ifeoma C. Nwankwo, recommended for promotion to associate professor of
English language and literature with tenure and associate professor of Afroamerican and
African studies with tenure in the college of Literature, Science, and the Arts; Zhaohui
Xu, recommended for promotion to associate professor of biological chemistry with
tenure in the Medical School, and research associate professor in the Life Sciences
Institute; Mary Hope Simoni, recommended for promotion to professor of music (music


338




M'ay Meeting, 2005


technology) with tenure in the School of Music; and Daniel J. Scheeres, recommended for
the granting of tenure to be held with his title of associate professor of aerospace
engineering in the College of Engineering.
Executive Vice President Kelch called attention to the portfolios of Dr. Kathleen
L. Collins, recommended for promotion to associate professor of internal medicine with
tenure and associate professor of microbiology and immunology without tenure in the
Medical School; Akinlolu O. Ojo, recommended for promotion to associate professsor
of internal medicine, with tenure; Dr. Phillip C. Hanna, recommended for promotion to
associate professor of microbiology and immunology; Dr. Celina G. Kleer,
recommended for promotion to associate professor of pathology with tenure; and Dr.
Elisabeth H. Quint, recommended for promotion to professor of obstetrics and
gynecology on the clinical track.
Chancellor Little described the rigorous tenure review process on the Dearborn
campus and highlighted the portfolio of Suzanne L. Bergeron, recommended for
promotion to associate professor of women's studies and associate professor of social
sciences, with tenure, and Yi Zhang, recommended for promotion to professor of
mechanical engineering, with tenure.
Chancellor Mestas noted that the nine University of Michigan-Flint faculty
members being recommended for promotion have all demonstrated outstanding records
in teaching, research, and service; although on the Flint campus the greatest emphasis is
placed on quality of teaching. He highlighted the cases of Martin M. Kaufman,
recommended for promotion to professor of earth and resource science, with tenure, and
Robert W. Barnett, recommended for promotion to professor of English, with tenure.
The Regents then turned to the remainder of the consent agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Churchill submitted for approval the minutes of the
meeting of April 21, 2005.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report, the
Plant Extension Report, and the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report. He
noted that, in addition to the previously announced American Institute of Architects
(AIA) award received by the Hill Auditorium Renovation project, the project had also
received an award from the Michigan chapter of AIA and is to receive a construction
and design award from the Engineering Society of Detroit. He also announced that the
Dana Building renovation had been awarded the gold LEED rating from the U.S. Green
Building Council.
Regarding the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report, he noted that the
classification study that will ultimately replace the current classification system is
continuing and phase one implementation "go live" will occur in July.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report. Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of projects
established, April 1-April 30, 2005. He commented that research awards through April


339




M'ay Meeting, 2005


2005 are up $65 million over the same period last year, an increase of 13.7%.
Expenditures from federal sources are up 7.2%.
University of Michigan Health System.      Executive Vice President Kelch
reported that the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers had received an
award from Hospitals for a Healthy Environment, the premier national recognition of
environmental innovation in health care, for the Hospitals' work in reducing waste,
virtually eliminating mercury, and minimizing the use of toxic products.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper called attention to two action
items, the Mosher-Jordan Hall Renovation Project and the request for approval of the
2005-2006 University Housing rates. She noted that Mosher-Jordan Hall was the
campus's first large residential facility and was viewed at the time as a model for
excellence in residence halls. This project represents the first deep renovation of a
heritage building being undertaken as part of the Residential Life Initiative, and it is
critical to ensuring the building's longevity. She described some of the features of the
renovation.
Regent Newman inquired how long the annual incremental rate increases in
student housing fees would be needed to provide funding for the renovations being done
as part of the Residential Life Initiative. Vice President Harper noted that this facility
renewal increase will be needed each year at least until 2010 in order to fund all
planned facilities renovations. The rate increase requested for 2005-2006 includes
1.9% for infrastructure renewal.
University  of Michigan-Dearborn.       Chancellor Little  highlighted  the
recommended appointment of Bruce O. Bublitz as dean of the School of Management.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas reported that the Flint campus
is "healthy, vibrant, and bursting with creative energy."
Michigan Student Assembly Report. Jesse Levine, president of MSA, informed
the Regents of the steps MSA has taken to ensure it is providing proper stewardship of
MSA funds. He noted that the organization is committed to fiscal responsibility and
also to saving students money. He also reported on MSA priorities and event planning
for the coming year.
Regent Newman requested that the board be provided information about the
current budget of MSA if the organization requests a fee increase.
Mr. Levine introduced Ms. Darla Williams, president of the Residence Hall
Association (RHA), who expressed RHA's support for the Mosher-Jordan renovation
and the 2005-2006 student housing rates proposal.
Voluntary Support. Vice President May submitted the Report of Voluntary
Support for April 2005. He reported that lead gifts and especially gifts from individuals
continue to be very strong.
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School........................................ $50,000
American Association for Dental Research, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the School of Dentistry................................... 12,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research and other support in the Medical School and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 65,174


340




M/ay Meleeting, 20055


American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School............................................. 25,000
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School........................................... 37,805
American Heart Association, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School............................................ 865,090
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the Medical School........................................... 66,733
American Society of Pension Professionals and Actuaries, Arlington, Virginia
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 105,333
Arthur W. Angood, Battle Creek
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 20,000
Anonymous Donor
100,000 units of Brighton SD CAB municipal bonds
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 78,861
Todd J. Anson, San Diego, California
341 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics.................................... 19,833
Association for the Advancement of Automotive Medicine, Barrington, Illinois
for research in the Medical School........................................ 10,000
Auto-Digest Foundation, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Auto-Digest Foundation Endowment Fund in the Medical School.............. 20,000
Erwin and Riva Baker Memorial Charitable Fund of the Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for the Erwin and Riva Memorial Holocaust Collection in
the Mardigian Library at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................... 25,000
Baltimore Research & Education Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for the Napolitano Education Fund in the Medical School.......................... 11,375
Phil S. Beck, Winnetka, Illinois
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics.................... 19,800
Eli V. Berger, West Bloomfield
for scholarships and fellowships in the School of Dentistry.......................... 10,000
David W. Bernhaut, Watchung, New Jersey
for the Bernhaut Family Endowment Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..... 50,000
Melvin Bernhaut, Livingston, New Jersey
for the Bernhaut Family Endowment Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..... 50,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
170 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock
for research in the Medical School........................................ 10,012
Elizabeth S. Bishop, Ann Arbor
6,390 shares of Kroger company common stock and a cash gift
for the Elizabeth S. Bishop Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the William, Mary, and Elizabeth Bishop Family Scholarship Fund in the Law School and
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 100,225
Henry A. Boldt, Hilton Head Island, South Carolina
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and
for the Medical School Class of 1954 Scholarship Fund in the Medical School.......... 11,000
Erik Brady, Santa Cruz, California
1,253 shares of Cisco Systems, Inc., common stock
for research in the Medical School........................................... 21,821
David A. Brandon Foundation, Ann Arbor
for Carr's Wash for Kids.....................................................  10,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School............................................ 210,000
Brian P. Campbell, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School............................................. 20,000
Cisco Systems University Relations Donation Program, San Jose, California
for the CISCO URP Award in the College of Engineering........................ 76,747
Dale C. Clark Trust
for undergraduate student aid at the University of Michigan....................... 75,820
Ralph B. Clemens, Chelsea
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics................................ 10,000
Francis E. Cogsdill Estate
for support at the University of Michigan..................................... 10,415
Comerica, Inc., Detroit
for employee matching gifts............................................. 10,401
Peter C. Cook Trust
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.................... 25,000


341




Garvie T. Craw, Little Silver, New Jersey
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................. 15,000
Timothy S. Davis Family Fund of the Tulsa Community Foundation, Tulsa, Oklahoma
for the Michigan in Washington Program and other support in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 10,000
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
for support in the School of Dentistr.......................................... 23,100
Dentsply, York, Pennsylvania
for the ibm-Lay Wang Endowed Collegiate Professorship in the School of Dentistry...... 15,000
Mary M. H. Douglas, Chandler, Arizona
for the Mar M. H. Douglas Endowed Scholarship Fund in the School of Education....... 25,000
Ecolab Foundation, Saint Paul, Minnesota
for support in the Stephen. M. Ross School. of Business and
for employee matching gifts................................................ 10,250
Egyptian Cultural. and Educational Bureau, Washing'ton, D.C.
for research in the Medical School............................................ 10000
Ethel. and James Flinn Family Foundation., Detroit
for research in the Medical ScThool............................................ 75, 77
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn.
for research in the College of Engineering...................................... 50,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn and
for employee matc'hing g'ifts................................................1-21,918
William and Martha Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henr Ford Estate at Fair Lane the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 25,000
Norman and Edna Freehling Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 45,000
Melvin Friedland, New York, New York
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................. 25,000
Furth Family Foundation, Healdsburg, California
for the Frederick P. Furth, Sr., Professorship Endowvment Fund in the Law School....... 550,000
Genevieve A. Gay, Flint
for the Genevieve A. Gay Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Education and Human Services at the University of Michigan-Flint......... 10000
General Cable Coiporation, Highland Heights, Kentucky
for support in the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the College of Engineering and
the Stephen M. Ross ScThool of Business.......................................30,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for the MBA Domestic Corps Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and.
for support in the School. of Social. Work....................................... 49,500
Victor Gondos, Jr., Estate
for the Vic'tor Gondos,. Jr., ArcThives Fund in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.................. 93,706
John. F. Greene, Silverthorne, Colorado
2,000 shares of various corporate conmmon stock
for the M. Jean Greene Dean's ScTholarship Fund and
the Graduate Fellowship Endowment Fund in Geological Sciences in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 93,235
Halliburton Foundation, Inc., Houston, Texas
for emp loyee matching gifts................................................ 40,400
Irvin W. and Velma C. Hartman, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
for research in the Institute for Social Research.................................. 20,937
Hella KG, Hueck & Company, Lippstadt, Germany
for support in the Transportation Research Institute............................... 14,980
Jeffrey K. Hoffman, Dayton, Ohio
for the Helen and Marvin M. Kirsh Professorship in the Medical School............... 20,000
Fredric B. House Trust


342




May Meeting, 2005


Instrumentation Laboratory, Lexington, Massachusetts
for sup port in the College of Literature, Science, and the A rts............ 10,000
J. P. Morgan Chase Foundation, New York, New York
for emp loyee matching gifts................................................ 11,770
J. W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation, Sierra Madre, California
for sup port in the Stephen M. Ross Sc~hool of Business............................ 40,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the Institute for Social Research and the School of Public Health.......... 354,618
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................ 40,851
Michael H. Klein, Bloomfield Hills
for the Klein Fund. for Lupus Research in the Medical School....................... 25,000
K.M.D. Foundation, Boca Raton, Florida
for research in the Medical ScThool............................................ 50000
Albert J. Koegel, Flint
for support at the University of MicThigan-Flint................................. 100,000
Josep h A. LaCava Estate
1,182 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Faye Mc~Farland LaCava Sc~holarship Fund in the Law Sc'hool................. 40,441.
Lannquist Hamilton Foundation of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston., Massachusetts
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy........................... 15,000
Lear Corporation., Southfield
for support in the Department of Athletics and
for the Henr Ford Estate at Fair Lane the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 11,940
Selig D. Lesnoy Estate
for the Selig D. Lesnoy Endowvment Fund...................................... 39,925
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Eli Lilly PhD Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 75,000
Jane W. Linsky, New York, New York
2.,725 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Weston-Linsky Charitable Remainder Trust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the Weston-Linsky Fund in the College of Literature, Scienc~e, and the Arts............ 101,430
Lupus Research Institute, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................ 37,500
Ben~ard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Child and. Family Life Program in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital............ 10,000
Joseph R. Malloure, Northville
for the Joseph and Nancy Malloure Endowed Scholarship Fund in
the College of Engineering................................................. 75,000
Neil R. Mann, Chicago, Illinois
200 shares of Neiman-Marcus Group, Inc., common stock
for the Building Fund in the Law ScThool.......................................19,205
Marc'h of Dim~es Birth Defec't Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical ScThool............................................ 7,500
Marsal Family Foundation., Rye, New York
for the Marsal Family Foundation Scholarship Fund. in the Department of Athletic's....... 30,000
Frederick C. Matthaei., Jr., Birmingham
333 shares of Amgen, Inc., common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics...................................... 20,078
Bob Maxey Lincoln-Mercur Sales, Inc., Detroit
for the "Giving Back to the Community" Fund.................................. 13,500
J. Terr McElroy, Northville
for the Czarnecki Education Endowment Fund and other supp ort at
the University of Michigan-Dearborn......................................... 20000
McKinley Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Ron and Eileen Weiser Fund at the Center for Community Service and Learning and


343




May Meeting, 2005


Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
for the Sp ring to Life Event Fund in the Comprehensiv~e Cancer Center,
for the Janice Bluestein Longone Culinar Archive Fund in the Clements Library and
for the University Musical Society............................................ 11,890
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for sup port in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy:.......................... 73,830
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School............................................64,753
Edward M. Nagel Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the Edward M. Nagel Scholarship Fund in the Law School....................... 40,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Great Neck, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................ 15,000
Eileen. K. Newman., Grand Rapids
for the Screenwriting Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 10,000
William. A. Newman., Ann. Arbor
for the Baseball Stadium Construction Fund and other support in
the Department of Athletics................................................. 21,600
Pamela J. Newman Kates, New York, New York
for the Museum Studies Endow ment Fund in
the Horace H. Rackhamn School of Graduate Studies............................... 10000
Novo Nordisk Pharmaceutic~als'. Inc., Princ~eton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical ScThool............................................ 20000
Pfizer Foundation, Princ~eton., New Jersey
for employee matching gifts................................................ 19,987
Philadelp hia, Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Beatrice Mae Jeffrey Pediatric Research Fund in the University Hospitals......... 70,000
Philip s International, B.V., Eindhoven, Netherlands
for support in the Transportation Research Institute............................... 15,000
Philips Research, Briarcliff Manor, New York
for research in the College of Engineering...................................... 50,000
Plastech, Dearborn
for the Henr Ford Estate at Fair Lane the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 23,700
Presser Foundation, Haverford, Pennsylvania
for the Presser Musical Scholarship in the School of Music......................... 11,500
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering, the Stephen. M. Ross School of Business,
the Law School, and the School of Public Health, and,
for other support at the Univ~ersity of Mic~higan..................................1-00,500
Anthony F. Randazzo, Grosse Pointe
-for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art............................... 50000
MitcThell and Shirley Raskin Charitable Remainder Trust
for the Fac'ilities Fund 2004 in the Stephen M. Ross Sc~hool of Business................ 39,427
Smith Richardson Foundation, Inc., Greensboro, North Carolina
for support in the School. of Education......................................... 89,956
Jonathan Rodgers, Ann Arbor
300 shares of International Business Machines Corporation common stoc~k
for support in the University Librar........................................... 26,713
Shane Family Fund of the Jewish Community Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Gregoiy Shane Fibromyalgia Fund in the Medical School..................... 10,000
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for the Women's Gymnastics Construction Fund and other support in
the Department of Athletics................................................ 160,000
Ching ju Wang Sheu, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Ching ju Wang Sheu Graduate Student Fellowship Fund in
the College of Pharmacy................................................... 40,000
Billy A. Smith, Ann Arbor
for the Billy A. and Virginia L. Smith Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of


344




M/ay Meleeting, 20055


Stryker Instruments, Kalamazoo
for the Homer H. Stryker Orthopedic Lecture Fund in the Medical School.............. 12,000
Stanley J. Thomson, Anchorage, Alaska
for research in the Medical School............................................. 25,000
Timken Company, Canton, Ohio
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 32,400
University of Michigan Alumni of Orange County Scholarship Funds, Orange, California
for the UMAOC Norman Jones Scholarship Fund.................................. 66,500
Unova Foundation, Woodland Hills, California
for support in the Department of Athletics...................................10,000
Varsity Ford, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 10,800
Horn-Lay Wang, Canton
for the Hom-Lay Wang Endowed Collegiate Professorship in the School of Dentistry..... 10,000
Walter H. Weiner Philanthropic Fund of the Anti-Defamation League Foundation,
New York, New York
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program Benny Friedman Fellowship in Sports...... 10,000
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Samuel L. Westerman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics and
for research in the Division of Kinesiology..................................... 4,000
Melba Winer Living Trust
500 shares of Abbott Laboratories common stock
for the Sidney J. Winer Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 23,805
Elizabeth Wright Charitable Remainder Unitrust
for the Elizabeth Benson Wright Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 10,000
Zenkel Foundation, White Plains, New York
for the Zenkel Presidential Endowed Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 40,000
David G. Zick, Bloomfield Hills
for the David G. Zick Scholarship, the Francine Zick Student Research Fund, and
other support at the University of Michigan-Flint................................ 25,000
Kurt D. Zimmerman, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
for the Baseball Stadium Construction Fund and other support in
the Department of Athletics................................................. 10,080
Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:


Andrew Abel, Pinckney
Donald J. Allard, Coto De Caza, California
Amgen Foundation, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
Arnold & Porter, LLP, Washington, D.C.
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
BioHorizons Implant Systems, Inc., Birmingham,
Alabama
Wayne J. Breece, Flushing
Joseph L. Campbell, Zionsville, Indiana
President Mary Sue Coleman and Dr. Kenneth Coleman,
Ann Arbor
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan,
Detroit
Compuware Corporation, Detroit
Con Edison, New York, New York
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
Denso International America, Inc., Southfield
Linda Gibson Dorman, Los Angeles, California
DTE Energy Foundation, Detroit
Exxon Mobil Foundation, Irving, Texas
Timothy J. Faber, New Albany, Ohio
Florence Family Foundation, East Boston, Massachusetts
Elena A. Ford, Dearborn
Walter and Josephine Ford Fund, Dearborn
Genvec, Inc., Gaithersburg, Maryland
German Academic Exchange Service, New York, New
York
Alvin L. Glick Foundation, Inc., Jackson


Google, Inc., Mountain View, California
Harold Cooper, Freedman Broder & Angen Accountancy
Corporation, Santa Monica, California
Hugh C. Higley, Jr., Ann Arbor
Infor Global Solutions, Alpharetta, Georgia
Jed J. Jacobson, Ann Arbor
Andrew J. Lansing, Chicago, Illinois
Ann E. Larimore, Ann Arbor
Woon-Hyung Lee, Seoul, South Korea
Kenneth B. Lipschutz, Birmingham
Map-Making Auditors Proficient, Inc., Evanston, Illinois
Bill and Florine Mark-Ross Fund for A.L.S. Research of
the Community Foundation for Southeastern
Michigan, Detroit
HMJS Marks Fund of the Community Foundation for the
National Capital Region, Washington, D. C.
Suzanne McGinn, Cape Elizabeth, Maine
Medtronic, Memphis, Tennessee
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
Mika, Meyers, Beckett & Jones, Grand Rapids
Millennium Pharmaceutical, Inc., Cambridge,
Massachusetts
Leonard G. Miller, Williamsburg, Virginia
National Heritage Academies, Grand Rapids
Patriots' Union of Tchimishgazak, Lexington,
Massachusetts
Donald E. and Jo Anne Petersen Foundation,
Birmingham
Charles Reinhart Company Realtors, Ann Arbor


345




M/ay Meleeting, 20055


Margaret A. Riecker, Midland                    Trotman Family Charitable Fund of the Vanguard
Christopher Roberts, Findlay, Ohio                 Charitable Endowment Program, Southeastern,
Rooney Family, LLC, Ann Arbor                      Pennsylvania
S. & C. Products Corporation, New York, New York  TTG Management Company, LLC, Summit, New Jersey
Sandy Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills       Turner McConnell Family Trust
Shirley Peck Schultz, Golden Valley, Minnesota  Union Pacific Foundation, Omaha, Nebraska
Seligman Family Foundation, Southfield          United Jewish Communities, New York, New York
Sigvaris, Inc., Peachtree City, Georgia         Verizon Foundation, Irving, Texas
Stoddard Family Foundation, Southfield          Visteon, Dearborn
Sullivan, Ward, Asher & Patton, P.C., Southfield  Jackman S. Vodrey Fund of the Schwab Fund for
Sunrise Advertising, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio        Charitable Giving, San Francisco, California
Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, New York, Frank T. Westover, Lake Forest, Illinois
New York                                     Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
Thyssen Krupp Budd Company, Troy                Warren P. Williamson III, Naples, Florida
Michael J. Woodbury, Eads, Tennessee
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
James L. Curtis, Albion
a large collection of African American objects and seven African beaded works for the Museum of Art
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
20 Dell Optiplex P4 desktop computers and 2 Latitude D600 Pentium M 725 computers for the College of
Engineering
International Business Machines Corporation, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
equipment for the University of Michigan
John J. Keenan, Bloomfield Hills
a collection of various medium drawings and paintings by John Keenan for the Clements Library
Jiu-Hwa Lo Upshur, Ann Arbor
one pair of Chinese tomb guardians, one Majiayao culture pottery bowl, and various other pottery items for
the Museum of Art
Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions.
He highlighted the recommended appointments of Ronald Gibala as interim dean of the
College of Engineering, Kenneth Warner as dean of the School of Public Health, and
Christopher Kendall as dean of the School of Music. He noted the recommendations
regarding the return to the faculty of Edward Gramlich, who had been on leave while
serving on the Federal Reserve Board.
RECOMMENDED PROMOTIONS TO THE RANKS
OF PROFESSOR AND ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR
ANN ARBOR, DEARBORN, AND FLINT CAMPUSES
Effective September 1, 2005, unless otherwise noted
With tenure, unless otherwise noted
Abecasis, Goncalo, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biostatistics, School of Public
Health
Abney, Steven P., from Associate Professor of Linguistics, without tenure, to Associate Professor of
Linguistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Acosta-Hughes, Benjamin B., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Greek and Latin,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Alfaro, Ricardo, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences
Anastasopoulos, Achilleas, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering,
and Computer Science, College of Engineering
Anderson, Jami L., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Philosophy, UM-Flint College of
Arts and Sciences
Arruda, Ellen M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and
from Associate Professor to Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without
tenure, College of Engineering
Bain, Robert B., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, School of Education
Barnett, Robert W., from Associate Professor to Professor of English, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences
Baumiller, Tomasz K., from Associate Professor to Professor of Geological Sciences and from Associate
Curator to Curator, Museum of Paleontology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts


346




M/ay Meleeting, 20055


Baveja, Satinder Singh, from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
without tenure, to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, College of Engineering
Bazzi, Ali, from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters
Bergeron, Suzanne L., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Women's Studies and from
Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Social Sciences, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters
Bhatnagar, Seema, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Borum, Michael Craig, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred
Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Burke, David T., from Associate Professor to Professor of Human Genetics, Medical School
Burmeister, Margit, from Associate Professor to Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, and from Associate
Professor to Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure, Medical School
Campbell, William M., from Associate Professor of Music (trumpet), without tenure, to Associate
Professor of Music (trumpet), with tenure, School of Music
Cedema, Paul S., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, Medical School
Chang, Edward C., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Chatters, Linda M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education,
School of Public Health
Chen, Weiyun, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology
Chen, Zhan, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering
Chensue, Stephen W., from Associate Professor to Professor of Pathology, Medical School
Chepeha, Douglas B., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical
School
Chemew, Michael E., from Associate Professor to Professor of Economics, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Collins, Kathleen L., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure,
and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Microbiology, without tenure, Medical
School
Conrad, Brian D., from Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Cooke, Kenneth R., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School
Cooney, Kathleen A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and from
Associate Professor to Professor of Urology, without tenure, Medical School
Countryman, Matthew J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History and from Assistant
Professor to Associate Professor of American Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Cushing, Simon S., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Philosophy, UM-Flint College of
Arts and Sciences
Dauwe, Loretta J., from Associate Professor to Professor of Physics, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences
Douglas, Nancy, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, UM-Dearborn School of
Education
Dowling, David R., from Associate Professor to Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics, College of Engineering
Eisbruch, Avraham, from Associate Professor to Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical School
Elkateeb, Ali, from Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, without tenure, to
Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College
of Engineering and Computer Science
El-Tawil, Sherif, from Associate Professor of Civial and Environmental Engineering, without tenure, to
Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering
Epelman, Marina A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations
Engineering, College of Engineering
Feinberg, Fred M., from Associate Professor of Marketing, without tenure, to Associate Professor of
Marketing, with tenure, Stephen M. Ross School of Business
Fink, John P., from Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Foran, Michael, from Associate Professor to Professor of Accounting, UM-Dearborn School of
Management


347




M/ay Meleeting, 20055


Fort, Timothy L., from Associate Professor to Professor of Business Law, Stephen M. Ross School of
Business
Fredrickson, Barbara L., from Associate Professor to Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and from Associate Professor to Professor of Management and
Organizations, without tenure, Stephen M. Ross School of Business
Ghosh, Debashis, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biostatistics, School of Public
Health
Gaines, Kevin K., from Associate Professor to Professor of History and from Associate Professor to
Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Gauger, Paul G., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and from
Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Medical Education, without tenure, Medical School
Glotzer, Sharon C., from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, from
Associate Professor to Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, and from
Associate Professor to Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure,
College of Engineering, and from Associate Professor to Professor of Physics, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Gould, Michael, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music (percussion), School of Music
Guo, Lingjie J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, with tenure, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Macromolecular
Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering
Hakan, Oral, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Hanna, Philip C., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology,
Medical School
Harkness, Michael, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Accounting, UM-Dearbom
School of Management
Henke, Peter K., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, Medical School
Hershock, Martin J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, UM-Dearborn College
of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Holloway, James P., from Associate Professor to Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological
Sciences, College of Engineering
Hughes, Paul, from Associate Professor to Professor of Philosophy, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters
Im, Hong G., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of
Engineering
Inhorn, Marcia C., from Associate Professor to Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Janz, Nancy K., from Associate Professor to Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, School
of Public Health
Ji, Lizhen, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts
Jonsson, Mattias, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Juster, Susan M., from Associate Professor to Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Kapila, Yvonne, from Associate Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, to Associate Professor of
Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry
Karlsen, Carol F., from Associate Professor to Professor of History and Women's Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Kaufman, Martin M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Earth and Resource Science, UM-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences
Keller, Evan T., from Associate Professor to Professor of Urology, with tenure, and from Associate
Professor to Professor of Pathology, without tenure, Medical School
Kerppola, Tom K. W., from Associate Professor to Professor of Biological Chemistry, Medical School
Kieffer, John, from Associate Professor to Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, College of
Engineering
Kieffer, Edith C., from Research Associate Professor to Associate Professor of Social Work, School of
Social Work
Kivelson, Valerie A., from Associate Professor to Professor of History, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Kleer, Celina G., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pathology, Medical School
Koelling, Todd M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School
Kohn-Wood, Laura P., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Korsyn, Kevin E., from Associate Professor to Professor of Music (music theory), School of Music


348




M/ay Meleeting, 20055


Lawson, Daniel B., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemistry, UM-Dearborn College
of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Leichtman, Alan B., from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Lempert, Lora B., from Associate Professor to Professor of Sociology, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters
Lepkowski, James M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Biostatistics, without tenure, School of
Public Health
Liberzon, Israel, from Associate Professor to Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School
Liu, James T., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Lusmann, Stephen A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music (voice), School of Music
Luthra, Rashmi, from Associate Professor to Professor of Communications and Composition,
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Magee, John C., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, Medical School
Mars, Joan R., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Criminal Justice, UM-Flint College of
Arts and Sciences
Masuzawa, Tomoko, from Associate Professor to Professor of Comparative Literature, and from
Associate Professor to Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Matjias, Christian Stephen, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dance, School of Music
Mendez, David, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy,
School of Public Health
Moreland, Keith A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Accounting, UM-Flint School of
Management
Morgenstern, Lewis B., from Associate Professor to Professor of Neurology, with tenure, from Associate
Professor to Professor of Neurosurgery, without tenure, and from Associate Professor to Professor
of Emergency Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, and from Associate Professor to
Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public Health
Moss, Pamela, from Associate Professor to Professor of Education, School of Education
Muir, Dana M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Business Law, Stephen M. Ross School of
Business
Nagar, Venkatesh, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Accounting, Stephen M. Ross
School of Business
Nau, David P., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy
Nease, Donald E., Jr., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Family Medicine, Medical
School
Noll, Douglas C., from Associate Professor to Professor of Biomedical Engineering, College of
Engineering
Nwankwo, Ifeoma C., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English Language and
Literature, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Afroamerican and African
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ojo, Akinlolu O., from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Olynyk, Patricia J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Art and Design, School of Art and
Design
Papaefthymiou, Marios C., from Associate Professor to Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, College of Engineering
Parrish, Susan Scott, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English Language and
Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Patel, Jignesh M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, College of Engineering
Peng, Huei, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering
Portnoy, Alisse S., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English Language and Literature,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Qian, Jianming, from Associate Professor to Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts
Radev, Dragomir R., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Information, with tenure, School
of Information, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, without tenure, College of Engineering, and from Assistant Professor to
Associate Professor of Linguistics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Renno, Nilton O., from Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, without
tenure, to Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, College
of Engineering
Richardson, Paul, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science
Ross, Theodora S., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Roubidoux, Marilyn A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Radiology, Medical School


349




May Meeting, 2005


Ruffin, Mack T., IV, from Associate Professor to Professor of Family Medicine, Medical School
Russell, Mark W., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School
Sastry, Ann Marie, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, from
Associate Professor to Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, and from Associate
Professor to Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering
Sagher, Oren, from Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, without tenure, to Associate Professor of
Neurosurgery, with tenure, Medical School
Scheeres, Daniel J., from Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, without tenure, to Associate
Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering
Schellenberg, Kathryn L., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Sociology, UM-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences
Schoenfeld, Philip S., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School
Schultheiss, Oliver C., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Shedden, Kerby A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Biostatistics, without tenure, School of Public Health
Sick, Volker, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering
Siegmund, Stefanie B., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History and Judaic Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Simoni, Mary Hope, from Associate Professor to Professor of Music (music technology), School of
Music
Smith, David C., from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and from
Associate Professor to Professor of Urology, without tenure, Medical School
Smith, Jonathan, from Associate Professor to Professor of English Language and Literature,
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Somers, Margaret R., from Associate Professor to Professor of Sociology with tenure, and from
Associate Professor to Professor of History, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts
Soundararajan, Kannan, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Stolyarov, Dmitriy L., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Economics, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Sutcliffe, Kathleen M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human
Resource Management, Stephen M. Ross School of Business
Sylvester, Dennis, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, College of Engineering
Taichman, Russell S., from Associate Professor to Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry
Thacher, David, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R.
Ford School of Public Policy, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Urban
Planning, without tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Thannickal, Victor J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School
Thompson, Debra A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, with
tenure, and from Associate Professor to Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure,
Medical School
Traynor, John R., from Associate Professor to Professor of Pharmacology, Medical School
Tucker, Priscilla K., from Associate Professor to Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and
from Associate Curator to Curator, Museum of Zoology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts
Villarruel, Antonia, from Associate Professor to Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing
Vlahopoulos, Nickolas, from Associate Professor to Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine
Engineering, with tenure, and from Associate Professor to Professor of Mechanical Engineering,
without tenure, College of Engineering
Vojtek, Anne B., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, Medical
School
Walter, Nils G., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Wang, Stewart C., from Associate Professor to Professor of Surgery, Medical School
Washington, Daniel A., from Associate Professor of Music (voice), without tenure, to Associate
Professor of Music (voice), with tenure, School of Music


350




M/ay Meleeting, 20055


Williams, Gareth, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Romance Languages and
Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Williams, David A., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, to Associate
Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School
Winick, Kim A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
College of Engineering
Xu, Zhaohui, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, Medical School
Yakel, Elizabeth, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Information, School of Information
Younger, John G., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical
School
Younker, Elizabeth A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music (music education),
School of Music
Zhang, Yi, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn College of
Engineering and Computer Science
Zheng, Wang, from Associate Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure, to Associate Professor of
Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Zikanov, Oleg, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering,
UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science
Zurbuchen, Thomas H., from Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, without
tenure, to Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, College
of Engineering
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Bublitz, Bruce O., Professor of Accounting and Dean, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
July 1, 2005-June 30, 2010
Moore, Deborah Dash, Ph.D., Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor and Professor of History, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005
Mullan, Patricia B., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Medical Education, Medical School, June 1, 2005
Schleppegrell, Mary J., Ph.D., Professor of Education, School of Education, September 1, 2005
Weisman, Lois S., Ph.D., Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, Medical School, July 2005
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Blatz, Robert E., Jr., Associate Professor of Taxation, UM-Dearborn School of Mangagment,
September 1, 2005
Rardin, Paul, D.M.A., Associate Professor of Music (conducting), School of Music,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2009
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Anderson, Eugene W., Associate Dean, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Kimeldorf, Howard A., Chair, Department of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Price, Richard H., Director, Organizational Studies Program, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Richstone, Douglas O., Chair, Department of Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2005-June 30, 2010
Reilly, Raymond R., Associate Dean, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Tolman, Richard M., Associate Dean for Educational Programs, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006


351




May Meeting, 2005


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Dey, Eric L., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, and Executive Associate Dean, also
appointed Associate Dean, School of Education, August 1, 2005-July 31, 2006
Emenyonu, Ernest, Professor of Africana Studies, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Africana Studies, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2008
Herrin, Gary D., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, and Assistant Dean for
Students, also appointed Interim Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education, College of
Engineering, June 1, 2005
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Pincus, Leslie B., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, research leave extended
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing Endowed Professorshs
Russell G. Adderley Professorship in Pediatric Oncology, Medical School, May 19, 2005
Janette Ferrantino Professorship in Pediatrics, Medical School, May 19, 2005
Frederick Paul Furth, Sr., Professorship in Law, Law School, June 1, 2005
Establishine  a ramed Prof eorsh i
Davis, Markert, Nickerson Visiting Professorship on Academic and Intellectual Freedom, Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies, September 1, 2005
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointment to a Collegiate Professorsh
Gramlich, Edward M., Richard A. Musgrave Collegiate Professor of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford
School of Public Policy, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Appointment to an Endowed Professorship
Johnson, Timothy M., Lewis and Lillian Becker Professor of Dermatology, Medical School,
May 19, 2005-May 18, 2010
Reappointment to Collegiate Profess:rships
Becker, Judith Omans, Glenn McGeoch Collegiate Professor of Music, School of Music,
June 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Darwall, Stephen, John Dewey Collegiate Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Eley, Geoffrey H., Sylvia L. Thrupp Collegiate Professor of Comparative History, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Reappointment to a Titled Professorship
Lieberthal, Kenneth G., William Davidson Professor of Business Administration, Stephen M. Ross
School of Business, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2010
Other Transactions
Mary Frances Berry Collegiate Professorship in History, American Culture, and Women's Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1, 2005 (previously reported as Mary Frances
Berry Collegiate Professorship in History and American Culture)
Carignan, George R., Interim Associate Dean for Research, College of Engineering, August 1, 2005
Gibala, Ronald, Interim Dean, College of Engineering, July 1, 2005


352




M/ay Meleeting, 20055


Gramlich, Edward M., from Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Policy, and Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts to
Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, and Professor of
Economics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005
Kendall, Christopher, Dean, School of Music, August 1, 2005-July 31, 2010
Raymond, Pamela A., from Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, with tenure, Medical School,
to Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005
Warner, Kenneth E., Dean, School of Public Health, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2010
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on dates indicated
UM-Flint Channel 28 Community Advisor Board
Davlantes, Alex, reappointed, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Driskell, Lewis, reappointed, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Garland, Brian, reappointed, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Hilton-Watson, Matthew A., June 1, 2005-May 31, 2007, vice Maureen Thum, term expired
Hinterman, Carol, reappointed, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Hogan, Robert, reappointed, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Marsh, Todd, reappointed, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Matonich, John, Jr., reappointed, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Orstein, Cindy, reappointed, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Silverman, Ronald E., reappointed, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Stanley, Lois, reappointed, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Terwilliger, Leatha, reappointed, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Turner, Clifton, reappointed, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Tyler, Nancy, reappointed, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Aiello, Allison E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Dong, Qian, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Froehlich, James B., M.D., Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
April 1, 2005-March 31, 2008
Izumi, Kenji, D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
March 1, 2005-February 28, 2008
Knechtges, Paul, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Noroozian, Mitra, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Osbeck, Mark K., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2007
Roe, Carolyn E., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 1-August 31, 2005
Smith, Teresa L., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery and Clinical Assistant Professor of
Neurology, Medical School, April 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Vandervort, Frank E., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, Law School,
September 1, 2005-August 31, 2008
Zochowska, Anuska A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School,
March 1, 2005-February 28, 2008
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Sneider, Raymond B., D.O., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, May 1-November 30, 2005
(previously reported as April 1-October 31, 2005)


353




M/ay Meleeting, 20055


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Blondy, Laurie C., from Clinical Lecturer to Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 1-August 31, 2005
Edwards, Paul N., from Associate Professor of Information Studies, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Associate Professor of Information, with tenure, School of
Information, to Associate Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information, June 1, 2005
Singer, Andrew M., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine also appointed Clinical Instructor in
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, May 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Urquhart, Andrew G., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery,
Medical School, March 16-August 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS OF
CLINICAL FACULTY AND
PRIMARY RESEARCH SCIENTISTS
Effective on September 1, 2005
Adams, Barbara S., from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Askari, Frederick K., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, Medical School
Attar, Mohammad-Ali M., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Baldwin, James L., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, Medical School
Banerjee, Mousumi, from Associate Research Scientist to Research Associate Professor of Biostatistics,
School of Public Health
Bielinska, Anna U., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School
Brown, Pamela I., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Btaiche, Imad F., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pharmacy, College
of Pharmacy
Burmeister, Margit, from Research Associate Professor to Research Professor in the Mental Health
Research Institute, Medical School
Caoili, Elaine M., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Radiology,
Medical School
Chiodo, Anthony E., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School
Clark, Sarah J., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Diponio, Lisa A., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, Medical School
Dombkowski, Kevin J., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Erba, Harry P., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School
Felt, Barbara T., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Filipi, Zoran S., from Associate Research Scientist to Research Associate Professor of Mechanical
Engineering, College of Engineering
Fullen, Douglas R., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pathology and
from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Dermatology, Medical School
Goldberg, Caren S., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases and from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of
Surgery, Medical School
Goldman, Mona L., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical
School
Hasson, Hana, from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry


354




M/ay Meleeting, 20055


Hopson, Laura R., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine,
Medical School
Johnston, Jerome, from Research Associate Professor to Research Professor in the Research Center for
Group Dynamics, Institute for Social Research
Kalemkerian, Gregory, from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School
Keshamouni, Venkateshwar, from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine, Medical School
Leber, Steven M., from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases and from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Neurology,
Medical School
Lisabeth, Lynda D., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical
School
Litzenberg, Dale W., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology,
Medical School
Lowell, Mark J., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Emergency
Medicine, Medical School
McDonough, Susan C., from Associate Research Scientist to Research Associate Professor, School of
Social Work
McMorris, Marc S., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases and from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, Medical School
Moran, Jean M., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology,
Medical School
Myc, Andrzey, from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School
Nyati, Mukesh K., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology,
Medical School
Otto, Edgar A., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Parekh, Vikas I., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School
Patterson, Stephanie K., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Radiology,
Medical School
Quint, Elisabeth H., from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, Medical School
Ransom, Richard F., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Ridley, Aaron J., from Associate Research Scientist to Research Associate Professor in the Space Physics
Research Laboratory, College of Engineering
Saunders, Thomas L., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School
Schroth, Anne N., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Professor of Law, Law School
Selwa, Linda M., from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Neurology, Medical School
Sierraalta, Marianella, from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Dentistry,
School of Dentistry
Snyder, Scott E., from Research Assistant Professor to Research Associate Professor of Radiology,
Medical School
Soriano, Jose A., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School
Tremblay, Adam S., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School
Van De Ven, Cosmas J. M., from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, Medical School
Wechsler, Stephanie B., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases and from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor
of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Wright, Susan, from Research Scientist to Research Professor, Institute of Research on Women and
Gender
Xu, Zhaohui, from Research Assistant Professor to Research Associate Professor, Life Sciences Institute
Yu, Mei-Yu, from Associate Research Scientist to Research Associate Professor of Nursing, School of
Nursing


355




M/ay Meleeting, 20055


Zalupski, Mark M., from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School
Zhang, Ming, from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology,
Medical School
Zhou, Chuan, from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Bergstrom, Terry J., Professor Emeritus of Ophthalmology, Medical School, May 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Burdi, Alphonse R., Professor Emeritus of Cell and Developmental Biology, College of Literature,
Science,and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2005
Coon, Minor J., Victor V. Vaughn Distinguished University Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus
of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, February 1, 2005-January 31, 2006
Dekker, Eugene E., Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Getty, Ward, Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering, College of Engineering, April 1-August 31, 2005
Malvin, Richard L., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, Medical School, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Naylor, Bernard, Professor Emeritus of Pathology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Paul, Ara G., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Sherman, James H., Associate Professor Emeritus of Physiology, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Slavens, Thomas P., Professor Emeritus of Information, School of Information, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Anastasopoulos, Achilleas, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College
of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006 and September 1-December 31, 2006
Austin, Todd M., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Buchman, Steven R., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Professor of Neurosurgery, without tenure,
Medical School, sabbatical leave, July 1-October 31, 2005
Dahm, Werner J. A., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Delanghe, Gay A., Professor of Dance, with tenure, School of Music, and Lecturer in Education, School
of Education, extended sick leave, September 9, 2004-January 1, 2005
Faller, Kathleen C., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2006
Grizzle, Jessy W., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Holter, Mark C., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, sabbatical leave, January
1-May 31, 2006
Najafi, Khalil, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, and Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1,
2005-May 31, 2006
Navvab, Mojtaba, Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Neuhoff, David L., Joseph E. and Anne P. Rowe Professor of Electrical Engineering and Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Roe, Philip L., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Rosania, Gustavo, Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, duty off campus, May 10-June
10, 2005
Roush, William R., Warner-Lambert/Park Davis Professor of Chemistry and Professor of Chemistry,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research leave, April 1-May 31, 2005
Scheeres, Daniel J., Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Shah, Gaurang V., Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, personal leave, April 1-June 30,
2005


356




M/ay Meleeting, 20055


Singh, Jasprit, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Tucker, David J., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Wellman, Michael P., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Deceased
Winbury, Martin M., Lecturer in Pharmacology, Medical School, March 4, 2005
Resigned
Baliga, Ragavendra R., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, March 31, 2005
Bourgeois, Elizabeth K., Assistant Professor of Theatre, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, May 31, 2005
Chang, Charmaine, Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, March 31, 2005
Meezan, William A., Marion Elizabeth Blue Professor of Children and Families and Professor of Social
Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, May 31, 2005
Visovatti, Moira A. Kirvan, Clinical Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, April 30, 2005
Retired
Axelrod, Daniel, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2005
Brodska, Zdenka, Lecturer III in Czechoslovakian Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2005
Davies, Douglas D., Clinical Associate Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, April 30, 2005
Garland, Frank, Associate Professor of Chemistry, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
April 30, 2005
Goodman, Frederick L., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education,
Griffin, Henry C., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2005
Kirsh, Marvin M., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Kotre, John N., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, April 30, 2005
Milroy, Ann L., Hans Kurath Collegiate Professor of Linguistics and Professor of Linguistics, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2005
Moerman, Daniel E., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, April 30, 2005
Norman, Richard S., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, April 30, 2005
Pierson, Carl L., Assistant Professor of Microbiology, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Pitt, Bertram, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Sears, Richard L., Associate Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2005
Thomson, William J.,Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, April 30, 2005
Tillinghast, Richard W., Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2005
Term Completed
Williams, Clyde R., Clinical Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, July 31, 2005
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Churchill submitted memoirs for 18 retiring
faculty members. Provost Courant highlighted the careers of retiring faculty members
George Haddad and Stephen Pollock. He also called attention to the retirement of
Patricia ("Sandy") Whitesell and noted her remarkable accomplishments as director and
curator of the University of Michigan Detroit Observatory.
David J. Anderson, Ph.D., professor of electrical engineering and computer
science and professor of biomedical engineering in the College of Engineering and


357




M'ay Meeting, 2005


professor of otorhinolaryngology in the Medical School, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 2005.
Professor Anderson received his B.S.E. degree from Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute (1961) and his M.S. (1963) and Ph.D. (1968) degrees from the University of
Wisconsin. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor of
electrical and computer engineering in 1970 and was appointed assistant professor of
otorhinolaryngology in 1971. In both departments, he was promoted to associate
professor in 1975 and professor in 1981. He was appointed professor of biomedical
engineering in 1997. He served as associate chair of the electrical engineering and
computer science department from 1989-96.
Professor Anderson's research occurred at the crossroads of engineering and
neurophysiology and was a major force behind the emergence of the University as a
leader in biomedical engineering. His work focused on understanding and optimizing
the interface between electronic probes and the cellular world, digital processing of
multi-channel neural signals, and coding of information in the auditory and vestibular
nervous systems. Since 1981, Professor Anderson and his colleagues have worked to
develop micromachined neural probes for multi-channel recording and stimulation in
the central and peripheral nervous systems, essentially building a microelectronic
interface to the brain. Their work on the "Michigan Probe" significantly affected the
direction of systems neuroscience research throughout the world and served as a model
for interdisciplinary research. The collaboration also led to the funding of a number of
major research projects within the University, including the Center for Neural
Communication Technology. Professor Anderson led the Biosystems Laboratory in the
electrical engineering and computer science department and the Neural Signal
Processing Laboratory in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute. He is a fellow of the
American Institute of Medical and Biomedical Engineering.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming David J. Anderson
professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer science, professor emeritus of
biomedical engineering, and professor emeritus of otorhinolaryngology.
Daniel Axelrod, Ph.D., professor of physics in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and research scientist in the Biophysics Research Division, will
retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2005.
Professor Axelrod received his B.S. degree from Brooklyn College in 1968
and his Ph.D. degree from the University of California-Berkeley in 1974. He was a
National Institutes of Health postdoctoral fellow at Cornell University from 1974-77.
He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor and an assistant
research scientist in 1977 and was promoted to associate professor and associate
research scientist in 1981 and professor and research scientist in 1987.
An active researcher and mentor for graduate students, Professor Axelrod worked
to develop novel optical microscopy techniques for studying the position, motion,
orientation, conformation, and kinetics of biomolecules. He played a major role in the
development of fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) and made
contributions to the theory and practice of fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET),
fluorescence correlation spectroscopy, fluorescence polarization microscopy, and surface
fluorescence. In 2000, he was elected a fellow of the Biophysical Society for his
pioneering research in developing the field of total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF)
microscopy.


358




M'ay Meeting,2005


Professor Axelrod was also very interested in interdisciplinary teaching, not only
among the science disciplines but also between the sciences and humanities. This led him
to create and teach popular courses on the physics of music, science and strategy in the
nuclear arms race, biophysical principles of microscopy, dynamic processes in biophysics,
and living with physics. In recognition of his many contributions to biophysics and to
teaching, he received the Year of the Humanities and Arts Award in 1997 and the LSA
Excellence in Education Award in 1999.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Daniel Axelrod professor
emeritus of physics and research scientist emeritus.
Dennis G. Baker, Ph.D., associate professor of atmospheric, oceanic, and space
sciences in the College of Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on May 31,
2005.
Professor Baker received his A.B. degree from Harvard University in 1964 and his
M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1967 and
1970, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant
professor in 1970 and was promoted to associate professor in 1976.
Professor Baker's research interests include synoptic, mesoscale, and applied
meteorology. He has written several papers related to shoreline mesometeorological
processes, circulation of cold air outflow in squall lines, mountain and coastline
meteorology, and in particular, snow and ice formations in coastal and mountain areas.
A certified consulting meteorologist and a member of the editorial review panel of
Computer Graphics World, Professor Baker served on the mesoscale and weather
forecasting committees of the National Weather Association and was associate editor
and interim  editor for the Journal of Applied Meteorology.      He was an
intergovemrnmental exchange meteorologist at the National Weather Service's
Techniques Development Laboratory, a producer and announcer for a weekly weather
program on WUOM radio, and a consultant at the National Center for Atmospheric
Research in Boulder, Colorado. Professor Baker also served as the vice-chair of the
southeastern Michigan chapter of the American Meteorological Society and is affiliated
with the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), ACM SIGGRAPH, the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Computer Society, and the Royal
Meteorological Society.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Dennis G. Baker
associate professor emeritus of atmospheric, oceanic, and space sciences.
Thomas D. Gillespie, Ph.D., research professor in the University of Michigan
Transportation Research Institute and adjunct professor of mechanical engineering in
the College of Engineering, retired from active faculty status on April 30, 2005.
Professor Gillespie received his B.S. degree from Carnegie Mellon University
(1961) and his M.S. (1965) and Ph.D. (1970) degrees from The Pennsylvania State
University. He was a project officer in the U.S. Army (1964-66), a research associate at
the Pennsylvania Transportation Institute (1970-73), and a group leader at Ford Motor
Company (1973-76). Professor Gillespie joined the University of Michigan faculty in
1976 as an associate research scientist in the Transportation Research Institute
(UMTRI). He was promoted to research scientist in 1981, senior research scientist in
1997, and research professor in 2003. Within the College of Engineering, he was
appointed lecturer in 1988 and was promoted to adjunct professor in 1990.


359




M'ay Meeting, 2005


Professor Gillespie worked on advanced engineering and research in the
automotive and highway areas, with a focus on transportation policy and safety. He
developed analytical methods and computer programs for predicting truck braking and
handling and a standard method for measuring road roughness for the National
Academy of Sciences Transportation Research Board. In the 1980s, Professor Gillespie
developed the International Roughness Index for the World Bank, and the index was
adopted as the international standard soon after. He served as director of the Great
Lakes Center for Truck and Transit Research at UMTRI from 1988-98, and he authored
the best selling textbook Fundamentals of Vehicle Dynamics in 1992.
For his work on truck ride and vibration, Professor Gillespie was selected to
present the L. Ray Buckendale Lecture for the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE)
in 1985. In 1987, as an SAE fellow, he was a senior policy analyst in the White House
Office of Science and Technology Policy. He received another SAE fellowship in 1994
and received the SAE Forest R. McFarland Award in 1998.
The Regents salute this faculty member by naming Thomas D. Gillespie, research
professor emeritus.
Edward Goldberg, M.D., George W. Morley Collegiate Professor of Obstetrics
and Gynecology and clinical professor of obstetrics and gynecology, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 2004.
Dr. Goldberg received his A.B. degree from Union College in 1959 and his M.D.
degree from Albany Medical College in 1963. He completed his residency at The Johns
Hopkins University (1966-72) and served on the faculty there until 1994. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty as a clinical professor and as the founding director of the
Division of Women's Health in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology in 1994,
and he was named the George W. Morley Collegiate Professor of Obstetrics and
Gynecology in 2001.
Throughout his career, Dr. Goldberg has been committed to women's primary
health care and the development of the University's women's health program, and he
has been key to the success of the department over the last decade. As director of the
Division of Women's Health, he expanded the program's clinical activity by increasing
the number of practitioners from two part-time employees to 18 part- and full-time faculty
members. This growth not only enhanced the ambulatory and inpatient clinical activity of
the University Hospitals and Health Centers, but it also strengthened the teaching and
research capacity of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. In addition to his role
in women's health, Dr. Goldberg also served as the health system's east regional medical
director for ambulatory care from 1997-2000.
Dr. Goldberg has regularly participated in resident and medical student education,
and he published a number of peer reviewed articles. A committed clinician, Dr.
Goldberg has continued to provide outstanding care to his patients at the Briarwood
Health Center throughout his tenure. He has been an active member of the American
College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the American Fertility Society, and the
American College of Physician Executives.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated service
by naming Edward Goldberg clinical professor emeritus of obstetrics and gynecology.
Frederick L. Goodman, Ph.D., professor of education in the School of
Education, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2005.


360




M'ay Meeting, 2005


Professor Goodman received his A.B. and A.M.T. degrees from Harvard
University in 1954 and 1956, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree from the University of
Michigan in 1961. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an instructor in
1960 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1961, associate professor in 1965, and
professor in 1969. He was a research associate in the Urban and Regional Planning
Program from 1972-73 and research scientist from 1974-80.
Professor Goodman has long been active in the design and utilization of
communication systems, simulations, and educational games. In the 1960s, he was the
chief consultant to the then U.S. Office of Education responsible for the design of the
decentralized Educational Resources Information Center (ERIC). He has designed
numerous games and guided the development of the Interactive Communications and
Simulations (ICS) Program based in the School of Education. He has also lectured and
led seminars on gaming at institutions around the world, including schools in Russia,
China, Canada, and Mexico.
In addition to teaching courses in the history and philosophy of education
throughout his 45-year tenure, Professor Goodman was actively involved in the Master
of Arts with Teaching Certificate (MAC) Program designed for professionals with
varied backgrounds who are making the transition into secondary school teaching. He
served as chair of the Division of Behavioral and Social Foundations from 1971-73 and
was a member of the Rackham Graduate Board and vice-chair of the Urban and
Regional Planning Ph.D. Program at the Rackham Graduate School from 1974-75. He
served on the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs (SACUA) from
1971-73 and was chair of SACUA in 1973-74.
The Regents salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Frederick L.
Goodman professor emeritus of education.
Henry C. Griffin, Ph.D., professor of chemistry in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2005.
Professor Griffin received his B.S. degree from Davidson College in 1958 and
his Ph.D. degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1962. From
1962-64 he was a research associate at Argonne National Laboratory. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty as assistant professor in 1964 and was promoted to
associate professor in 1970 and professor in 1989. He also served as the college's
director of undergraduate studies (1974-77) and director of freshman studies (1979-83),
and he was a faculty counselor (1987-92).
Professor Griffin's work focused on nuclear chemistry and physics.  He
contributed to the application of activation analysis for environmental analysis and the
understanding of the decay of heavy element fission products, nuclear spectroscopy and
decay schemes; developed fast chemistry analysis techniques of fission products and
radiochemical separation methods; and helped advance coincidence measurement
detector technology and gamma ray detection experiments. Professor Griffin worked in
a field of research highly dependent upon collaborations and on the use of off-campus
facilities for acquiring data, long before this modus operandi became more broadly
practiced in the chemistry community. He authored or co-authored over 90 publications
during his career.
A devoted educator, Professor Griffin taught undergraduate physical and general
chemistry courses and graduate level nuclear chemistry courses. He was especially
interested in teaching innovations in the large, lower-level general chemistry classes,


361




M'ay Meeting, 2005


where he pioneered the use of computers and other innovative techniques. He served
on numerous University-wide committees, including the Radiation Policy Committee,
the Ford Nuclear Reactor Safety Committee, and the Committee on the Human Use of
Radioisotopes. He was associate chair for curriculum development and faculty affairs
in the chemistry department, and he served on the Senate Assembly and as chair of the
Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Henry C.
Griffin professor emeritus of chemistry.
George I. Haddad, Ph.D., Robert J. Hiller Professor of Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science and professor of electrical engineering and computer science in
the College of Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2005.
Professor Haddad received his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees from the University
of Michigan in 1956, 1958, and 1963, respectively. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty as an instructor in 1961 and was promoted to assistant professor in
1963, associate professor in 1965, and professor in 1969. In 1991, he was named the
Robert J. Hiller Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science.
Professor Haddad's career spans almost five decades of unparalleled achievement and
leadership in research, teaching, service, and administration. During the two terms he
served as chair of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
(1975-86 and 1991-97), the department grew significantly in both reputation and size.
Under his leadership, many outstanding faculty were added, the graduate research program
experienced tremendous growth, and the department established itself among the top five
in the country. Primarily because of Professor Haddad's vision and guidance, the
department has become a model for other engineering schools. The impact of his
contributions will be felt by many future generations of faculty and students.
In addition to his administrative and educational accomplishments, Professor
Haddad is internationally recognized for his research and expertise in microwave and
millimeter-wave devices and integrated circuits, microwave-optical interactions and
optoelectronic devices, and integrated circuits. He established and led a number of
major research programs within the department in his roles as director of the Electron
Physics Laboratory (1969-75), director of the Solid-State Electronics Laboratory
(1986-91), and director of the Center for High Frequency Microelectronics
(1986-2000). Professor Haddad is a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers and a member of the National Academy of Engineering.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar and leader by naming George I.
Haddad the Robert J. Hiller Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science and professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer science.
John N. Kotre, Ph.D., professor of psychology in the College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, retired from active faculty status on
April 30, 2005.
Professor Kotre received his Litt.B. degree from Xavier University in 1962 and
his Ph.D. degree from the University of Chicago in 1969. He joined the University of
Michigan as a project director at the Institute for Social Research in 1969 and served as
a lecturer (1971-73) and then assistant professor (1974) in the extension service. In
1972, he was appointed assistant professor of psychology on the Dearborn campus, and
he was promoted to associate professor in 1975 and professor in 1980.


362




M'ay Meeting,2005


Professor Kotre's scholarly output has been prolific, including scores of articles,
book chapters, and a number of noteworthy books, including The Best of Times, The
Worst of Times: Andrew Greeley and American Catholicism, 1950-1975 (Nelson-Hall,
1978); Outliving the Self Generativity and the Interpretation of Lives (Johns Hopkins
University Press, 1984); White Gloves: How We Create Ourselves Through Memory
(Norton, 1996); and Make It Count: How to Generate a Legacy that Gives Meaning to
Your Life (The Free Press, 1999). In 1984, Professor Kotre received a $2.15 million
grant from the Annenberg Project of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. This
grant provided funding for Seasons ofLife, a multi-faceted project that included a series
of five one-hour television documentaries released in the fall of 1990, created by
Professor Kotre, and produced by WQED/Pittsburgh. The grant also funded a separate
series of 26 half-hour Seasons of Life audio programs produced by the University of
Michigan. Professor Kotre served as executive producer, host, and writer for this series
and wrote the companion book, Seasons of Life: Our Dramatic Journey from Birth to
Death (Little, Brown, 1990).
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar and educator by naming John N.
Kotre professor emeritus of psychology.
Anant M. Kshirsagar, Ph.D., D.Sc., professor of biostatistics in the School of
Public Health, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2005.
Professor Kshirsagar received his B.Sc. and M.Sc. degrees from Bombay
University in 1948 and 1951, respectively, and his Ph.D. and D.Sc. degrees from
Manchester University in 1961 and 1967, respectively. He held faculty appointments at
Bombay University (1951-63), Southern Methodist University (1968-71), and Texas
A&M University (1971-77), before joining the University of Michigan faculty as
professor of biostatistics in 1977.
Professor Kshirsagar is internationally known for his many contributions to the
theory and practice of statistics, particularly in the areas of experimental design,
multivariate analysis, and the modeling and analysis of growth curves. He is the author
of three well-known books on statistics--A Course in Linear Models, Multivariate
Analysis, and Growth Curves--and more than 100 publications in peer-reviewed
journals. Professor Kshirsagar has served as mentor and supervisor for many Ph.D. and
M.S. students and taught courses across a wide spectrum of the curriculum in
biostatistics. He is affectionately known as Dr. K. by students, alumni, faculty, and
staff alike.
Over the years, Professor Kshirsagar's contributions have been recognized in
various ways. He was elected a fellow of the American Statistical Association and of
the Institute of Mathematical Statistics, has served as president of the Indian Statistical
Association, and is a member of the International Statistical Institute.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Anant M. Kshirsagar
professor emeritus of biostatistics.
Ann Lesley Milroy, Ph.D., Hans Kurath Collegiate Professor of Linguistics and
professor of linguistics in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire
from active faculty status on May 31, 2005.
Professor Milroy received her B.A. and M.A. degrees from the University of
Manchester in 1965 and 1967, respectively, and her Ph.D. degree from Queen's
University Belfast in 1979. She taught at the University of Ulster from 1972-83 and at
the University of Newcastle upon Tyne from 1983-94. In 1994, she joined the


363



