
Proceedings of the Board of Regents
The University of Michigan


July 1998 - June 1999




JULY MEETING, 1998


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, July 16, 1998
The Regents convened at 9:15 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Deitch, Maynard, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Interim Co-General Counsel
Barry, Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Vice President Hartford,
Executive Vice President Kasdin, Vice President Neidhardt, Chancellor
Nelms, Executive Vice President Omenn, and. Chancellor Renick. Regent
Horning was absent.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and announced that
Regent Horning could not attend the meeting because of an illness in his
family. He noted that this is the first meeting in his four years on the Board
that Regent Horning will have missed, and he had asked him to express his
deep regret about this.
President Bollinger then called on Executive Vice President Kasdin.
1998-99 Operating Budgets: Maintaining Michigan's Financial Health
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that his major responsibilities as
chief financial officer include tracking and building the University's financial
health and strengthening the balance sheet by managing the University's
assets and liabilities. To this end, he has evaluated the proposed operating
budgets to ensure that they maintain the University's overall financial
health. He expressed his full support for all of the budgets being presented,
noting that they will enhance the University's overall financial strength.
Executive Vice President Kasdin said that he and Provost Cantor have
taken a fresh look at the flow of funds to ensure that all recurring expenses
are funded out of recurring revenues and that as many of the recurring
expenses and recurring revenues as possible are folded into the operating
budget. This has led to a realignment of about $23 million of activity being
moved into the General Fund operating budget this year.
He also noted that the campus-wide M-Pathways effort is in the process
of being implemented, and that this effort is crucial to providing the Regents
with timely and accurate information on financial matters. Furthermore,
the quality of information will improve because there has been a new level of
close collaboration among the provost, chief financial officer, and executive
vice president for medical affairs and their staffs.
Executive Vice President Kasdin said that the proposed budgets being
presented can be evaluated by examining whether there are diverse revenue
sources; whether there has been a demonstrated ability to spend within
budgeted amounts and control costs; whether there has been adequate
maintenance of physical properties; and reasons justifying the utilization of




July Meeting, 1998


debt. He displayed pie charts indicating that revenue is derived from a
diverse set of sources, both including and excluding Hospital revenue.
He observed that state appropriations and student fees are critical to the
University's ability to carry on its mission, and that the proportion of income
received from investments is relatively low compared to that of other major
research institutions. Thus the University is unusually dependent upon
tuition and state appropriations.
Executive Vice President Kasdin then displayed a chart indicating that
the University has been increasingly successful at having actual expenses
match budgeted expenses during each fiscal year. Regarding the commitment
to renewal of the physical plant, he noted that expenses for plant renewal are
well in excess of those for new buildings, and this is as it should be. Finally,
he reported that the University's debt is at a very comfortable level, and that
it has a strong credit rating, a consistent debt management policy, and is
aggressive at managing its interest expenses.
Executive Vice President Kasdin concluded that the annual operating
budget is only one indicator of the University's financial condition. He noted
that efforts have been made this year to ensure that the General Fund budget
better reflects the true financial behavior of the institution. He concluded that
the proposed budget will have a financial impact that is fully consistent with
maintaining the University's overall financial health.
1998-99 Operating Budgets-All Campuses
President Bollinger then called on Provost Cantor to present the 1998-99
budgets. Provost Cantor observed that the budgets had been developed in
close collaboration with the president, and with input from the offices of the
chief financial officer, the executive vice president for medical affairs, and the
other executive officers. She also thanked the associate and assistant provosts
and the entire staff of the Office of Budget and Planning for their assistance
in developing the budget.
Provost Cantor displayed a table showing that revenues for the General,
Designated, Expendable Restricted, and Auxiliary Activities funds for 1998-99
will total $3.087 billion, an increase of 8.0 percent over 1997-98. Total
expenditures will equal $2.963 billion, which represents a 7.7 percent increase.
1998-99 Ann Arbor General Fund Budget
Provost Cantor observed that over the years, with the cooperation of the
citizens of the state, the University has worked to build and maintain the
best institution it can offer to a set of students who have high aspirations
and expectations. She pointed out three elements that are essential for the
UM's continued success: a superb faculty; strong libraries, museums and
other institutions that enhance the University's shared public culture; and
the richest possible classroom environments. She noted that the term
"classroom" encompasses much more than the traditional classroom, and
includes community service learning, research and education outside the
classroom, and living/learning programs. She observed that implementing
this program requires a real growth in expenditures, beyond the cost of


2




July Meeting, 1998


living, because as the world grows increasingly complicated, the body of
knowledge that must be understood and imparted grows accordingly.
Provost Cantor observed that the budget is built upon the notion that in
order to prepare students for the future, undergraduate education must
focus on three major areas: Diversity, in terms of exposure to a wide variety
of experiences, people, and ideas; experiencing information technology as an
integral part of the educational experience; and the experience of
collaborative work, so that students learn the dynamics of working in groups.
Provost Cantor noted that the Boyer Commission ("Boyer Commission
on Educating Undergraduates in the Research University") had recently
completed a study, funded by the Carnegie Foundation, of what research
universities need to do to improve undergraduate education. Among the
recommendations are that a world-class faculty provide small classroom
experiences for undergraduates; that opportunities be provided for students
to combine research and education; expansion of technology within the
classroom; and stretching the venue for learning beyond the walls of the
traditional classroom.
In keeping with these recommendations, the proposed budget calls for
expansion of the LS&A first-year seminar program and reduction of the seminar
class size; expanding support for new, thematically-based first and second year
curricula, taught by senior faculty, as exemplified by the College of Engineering's
Curriculum 2000; expanding undergraduate research opportunities; expanding
interdisciplinary course sequences and interdisciplinary "theme semesters";
expanding digital resources in the libraries and expanding instructional technology across the curriculum; and establishing additional "learning communities"
that expand the definition of the classroom.
Revenue assumptions for the 1998-99 General Fund Budget include an
increase in state appropriation of $8.9 million; a loss of interest income of $1.5
million; tuition increases of 3.9 percent for all undergraduate programs and for
most graduate and professional programs; an additional fee of $30 per term for
LS&A undergraduates for the "technology across the curriculum" program; an
increase of $10.0 million in the recovery of indirect costs of sponsored
research; and a savings of $2.5 million in central administration expenditures
that will be reallocated to academic programs. She emphasized that all of the
growth in the budget occurs within the academic side of the institution.
The overall recommended increase in expenditures for FY 1999 equals
$41.4 million. She noted that the combined increase in state appropriation
and tuition and fees of about $31.0 million is the same increase as in
1997-98. Expenditure increases are focused on the schools and colleges, with
the emphasis on salary programs designed to retain faculty, many of whom
the University is at risk to lose to competing institutions. Other funds will
be committed toward instituting the educational programs and providing the
technology enhancements described earlier.
Provost Cantor noted that there is a new budget category, "University
Academic Units," which encompasses the units that enhance the University's
"shared public culture". Notable in this category is a 10 percent increase for


3




July Meeting, 1998


the University library system, which she noted was at a critical moment,
both retaining the traditional archival role of libraries while also building the
digital library of the future.
Provost Cantor concluded by pointing out that today's students have far
greater demands placed on them than was the case for previous generations.
They need to be educated in how to think flexibly and to be open-minded so
that they can cope with an ever-changing and increasingly complex world.
These values, along with respect for the challenges facing today's students,
undergird the budget proposal.
President Bollinger observed that the administration operates from the
premise that it is committed to being a truly great state university. But he
noted that the University operates in a very competitive environment in
which other institutions are engaging in intense competition for its students,
faculty, and staff. In order to compete in that environment, the University
must have adequate resources, and that is why the 3.9% tuition increase and
LS&A undergraduate technology fee is necessary.
President Bollinger pointed out that there is a dramatic difference in
wealth among the great research universities, with most of them being built
around endowments rather than tuition. The University of Michigan's
tuition and state appropriation do not equal the tuition charged at the
private research institutions which constitute its major competitors, and the
private institutions also have sizable endowments that are much larger than
the University's. Thus, the University of Michigan must do the same that they
do with less resources. In order to sustain the culture that has so far enabled
the University to remain competitive, additional resources are necessary to
compete successfully in such areas as faculty salaries and the ability to offer
small classes for undergraduates. Otherwise, "there will be a steady decline of
this great institution." He emphasized that the administration is also deeply
concerned about finding efficiencies in the organization wherever possible, as
exemplified by the decrease in budget for central administrative functions.
UM-Dearborn 1998-99 General Fund Budget and Student Fee Rates
Chancellor Renick reported that the UM-Dearborn budget focuses on
ways that the learning environment can be enhanced so as to provide improved
access and value for students. The proposed tuition increase of 4.8 percent is
designated for academic programs and for significant improvements to the
electronic and physical infrastructure. He noted that the mission of the
Dearborn campus is "to provide accessible educational opportunities of the
highest possible quality to commuter students in our region," and that the
proposed budget will enable the campus to continue that tradition of value and
access.
Chancellor Renick noted that a significant portion of the proposed
increase will be used to hire new faculty members in high-growth programs,
and to improve the campus' ability to provide remote access for students to
the campus information technology network. The proposed budget increase
also targets the increased operating costs that will exist when three new
buildings are brought online during the coming year. He noted that even


4




July Meeting, 1998


with the addition of these three new buildings, the Dearborn campus ranks
near the bottom of state institutions in terms of gross square feet per
student. The financial aid budget will increase by 10 percent to ensure
continued access, and the budget also calls for a modest salary program.
Chancellor Renick reported that the budget will be financed through
three sources: state appropriations, tuition, and internal reallocation of state
resources. He pointed out that the amount of the state appropriation per
student at UM-Dearborn is among the lowest in the state.  Thus, the
challenge is to provide quality improvements in instructional capacity in ways
that leverage moderate tuition increases and create real value for students.
He observed that although the amount of the proposed tuition increase is
higher than desirable, the actual cost increase will amount to $88.00 per
full-time student per term, and he does not believe that this amount will
restrict access to the campus.
UM-Flint 1998-99 General Fund Budget and Student Fee Rates
Chancellor Nelms complimented Provost Cantor on her "passionate and
eloquent" budget presentation. He observed that the budget for the Flint
campus is not a one-year budget; rather, it builds on a four-year strategy to
improve the financial capacity of the institution and to reduce reliance on the
use of contingency dollars to pay for ongoing activities such as salaries and
support services.
Chancellor Nelms noted that the Flint campus attempts to deliver
quality programs that provide a broad value for students. He observed that
the salary program will use up 72 percent of the new resources, and the
remainder will be used to fund a small core of academic initiatives, improved
student retention efforts, and to provide base funding for some expenditures
that have previously been paid for from contingency dollars. In addition, a
modest amount has been set aside for his successor. The proposed tuition
increase of 3.9 percent equates to an increase of $64 per semester per
student, plus an additional $4.50 increase in fees.
1998-99 Department of Athletics Budget
President Bollinger called on Mr. Tom Goss, Donald R. Shepherd Director
of Intercollegiate Athletics, to present the 1998-99 Department of Athletics
budget. Mr. Goss reviewed the department's academic and athletic achievements
during 1997-98. He noted that 49 percent of the 666 student athletes had
grade point averages of 3.0 and above and 163 students achieved academic
all-conference ratings. The department's athletic achievements included two
national championships in football and hockey, and seven conference championships (men's cross country, field hockey, football, softball, women's swimming
and diving, women's track and field indoor and women's track and field
outdoor). Michigan also won three Big Ten tournaments, had two national
coaches of the year and six conference coaches of the year, and had female and
male Big Ten athlete of the year, the first time that both athletes had come
from the same school.
Regarding gender equity proportionality, he noted that female students at
the University of Michigan comprise 49.9 percent of the total, and constitute
5




July Meeting, 1998


about 46 percent of student athletes. This is within the 5 percent goal set by
the NCAA. He said that there are currently 12 women's sports and 11 men's
sports, and that the department is offering the maximum number of
women's scholarships allowed by the NCAA.
Regarding the 1998-99 budget, Mr. Goss reported that the department
expects revenues of $45,187,000 and expenses of $44,985,000. Regarding
revenues, he noted that Michigan has agreed to a national radio contract
calling for six football games in 1998 and all games in future years to be
broadcast in as many as 360 markets.   He also pointed out that the
University's new production facilities enable it to produce footage of all games
that can then be sold for replay, which has not been possible in the past.
Regarding the Department of Recreational Sports, Mr. Goss noted that
82 percent of undergraduate students participate in the Department's programs,
and that the department generates 66 percent of its own revenue.
Finally, Mr. Goss reviewed athletics facilities.  He noted that the
addition and renovations to Michigan Stadium would be completed in time
for the 1998 football season and that the Crisler Arena production center,
which would allow the broadcasting on the Internet of events taking place in
both the football stadium and Crisler Arena, would also be completed by
then. Other renovations are also proceeding on target.
Regent Maynard asked what the weaknesses are of the gender equity
program for women athletes, and how these challenges are being addressed. Mr.
Goss responded that these are being addressed by focusing on quality in coaches
and in instruction and by providing facilities that will enable athletes to practice
at reasonable times so that they will be able to take the necessary classes.
In response to a question from Regent Maynard about whether the issue
of "potty equity" is being addressed at the football stadium, Mr. Goss said
that the majority of the 70 new stalls being added are for women.
FY 1999 University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
Operating Budget
President Bollinger called on Executive Vice President Omenn. Executive
Vice President Omenn noted that the University of Michigan Hospitals and
Health Centers and the Medical School are among the leading institutions in
the United States, but they exist in a very competitive environment. He
pointed out that, in contrast to its competitors, the University's health system
is an academic health system that includes a medical school.
Dr. Omenn displayed an organizational chart for the University of
Michigan Health System. He noted that he had created one new position,
the associate vice president for health system finance and business strategy,
and that he would be recommending Mr. Douglas Strong to fill that position.
He described several new products from M-Care, and reported that excellent
new faculty in the biological sciences have been recruited as a result of
initiatives that he had set in place.
Dr. Omenn noted that the health risk profile for people living in
Washtenaw County needs improvement, and that the health system is working
6




July Meeting, 1998


in cooperation with the county health department and St. Joseph Mercy
Hospital to make a difference in the health risk profile for county residents.
Regarding the proposed FY 1999 budget, Dr. Omenn displayed a chart
indicating proposed total operating revenue of $975,115,000, which is a 2.9
percent increase, and total operating expense of $973,618,000, an increase of
5.3 percent. The proposed operating gain is $1,497,000. He noted that revenues
continue to grow, despite reductions in length of stay and reimbursement
rates and intense competition. The operating expense budget includes $15
million to be applied to information technology issues related to the "Year
2000 Problem."
He pointed out that the major drivers for clinical redesign and cost
reduction are the Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan (BCBSM) contract,
which calls for a cumulative net reduction in reimbursement of $76 million
over a five-year period ending in 2001. In addition, there will be a cumulative
reduction of $140 million over five years ending in 2002 as a result of
Medicare law changes in the Budget Act of 1997. To combat these
reductions, the health system will have to continue to increase its efficiency,
increase its patient volumes, and improve and extend its services.
Dr. Omenn concluded his presentation with a comparison of Hospitals and
Health Centers budgets from FY 1995 through FY 1998. During this period,
total operating revenue increased, but this was largely due to the creation of
the Clinical Delivery System, in which physician professional services and
facilities services were combined into the same budget. These revenues are
balanced by operating expenses related to these services. He noted that
despite increases in volumes and revenues, costs for supplies have risen only
modestly and are projected to decrease by $4 million for FY 1998, due to close
monitoring by health system personnel. Although the FY 1998 budget had
projected revenues and expenses to break even, it is expected that there will be
an operating gain for FY 1998 of $26,217,000. The FY 1999 will begin with a
$1.5 million margin on nearly $1 billion in revenues. Given this tight margin,
the health system will work very hard to generate a more favorable operating
margin within its values and mission, as achieved for FY 1998.
Regent McGowan inquired about the status of the cost reduction
initiative that had been undertaken several years ago under the direction of
Dr. Lloyd Jacobs. Dr. Omenn responded that this is still underway. Regent
Power asked what system was in place to manage the additional $216 million
in required expenditure reductions from BCBSM and Medicare. Dr. Omenn
responded that these reductions are not against current expenditure levels,
but are against what these entities would have paid otherwise by the end of
the five-year periods under existing law and existing contracts. He noted
that clinical redesign is underway, and that committees are studying ways to
save money on procurement practices, to reduce the calculated cost per case,
and to spread fixed costs by expanding clinical services.
Regarding the original $200 million cost-cutting initiative headed by Dr.
Jacobs, Dr. Omenn said that $60 million worth of savings was to have been
found in FY 1997, $70 million in 1998, and $70 million in 1999. The first
$60 million was obtained, mostly through the layoffs of 200 staff and


7




July Meeting, 1998


elimination of a total of 1,050 positions. Since that time, some positions have
been reinstated due to increased volume. The portion of the 1998 savings
which was to have been achieved through union contract negotiations was
not feasible; however, a savings of $43 million was realized through spreading costs over a larger volume and by clinical redesign. The originally
projected 1999 savings were to be found through an unnamed merger and
will not be achieved as originally envisioned. Nevertheless, budget reductions
will be achieved from continued clinical redesign to reduce cost per case and
cost per person per year on capitated contracts. The total three-year costcutting initiative will equal about $169 million.
Mr. Larry Warren, executive director of University of Michigan
Hospitals, noted that further cost reductions will be achieved through
growing the business by increasing market share as well as by cutting costs
where appropriate. Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that these efforts
emphasize the importance of the newly created position of associate vice
president for finance in the University of Michigan Health System.
Regent Power asked Dr. Omenn whether he believed the health system
had adequate resources to address the Year 2000 Problem. He responded
that it did, and that a single individual, Tom Biggs, was responsible for
addressing this problem. He also noted that because the health system is
such a complex entity, this issue presents many challenges. He said that he
would be prepared to give periodic updates to the Board on the health
system's progress in dealing with this issue.
Dr. Omenn then reviewed cost-per-case figures from FY 1996 through
FY 1999. He noted that although these costs have been coming down, so
have the costs of the health system's competitors. Therefore, a gap still
exists, although it has been narrowed somewhat.
Regent McFee asked how all of the issues that have been discussed
relate to the ultimate goal of better serving the patient. Dr. Omenn
responded that administrators have been working to make the hospital more
patient-friendly. Top administrators personally participate in the patient
greeter program, and they actively seek input from patients and visitors. He
also pointed out that the hospital is monitored by an external organization
that performs surveys on patient satisfaction. These surveys are published
and benchmarked against competitors. Although the hospital is generally
doing well in these areas, it constantly strives to improve.
Regent McFee observed that it is important for the health system to
monitor shifting patterns of coverage by insurance companies, because these
have an effect on patient care. Dr. Omenn agreed, noting that this is an
advantage of the health system's affiliation with M-Care.
Annual Report of UM-Dearborn Faculty Senate Budget and Finance
Board
Chancellor Renick introduced Professor Linda Fisher, chair of the
UM-Dearborn Faculty Senate Budget and Finance Board. Professor Fisher
observed that faculty would like to expand their role from that of requesting
budget items through department and school or college budgeting processes
8




July Meeting, 1998


to having a say in developing the broad-based priorities for expenditures on
campus. She noted that despite the Budget and Finance Board's having
expressed its concern to the chancellor and vice chancellor for business
affairs about the budgeting process, faculty input at the departmental and
unit levels is still problematic.
Professor Fisher also pointed out that some deans continue to set
budget priorities without input from their executive committees, and because
the information used to prepare these budgets is kept confidentially, it is
often unclear how campus priorities are reached. It is also difficult to learn
how budgets reflect actual expenditures.
She also noted that compared to other Michigan IIA institutions, a much
larger proportion of resources at the UM-Dearborn goes to areas other than
instructional expenses and faculty salaries. She observed that since the last
report to the Regents, there had been little change in average faculty
compensation compared to other Michigan IIA institutions. She said that
faculty estimate it would cost $459,000 to raise all of the tenure-track ranks
and disciplines that are below the Michigan IIA average to the mean salary
for Michigan IIA faculty, with additional funds being required to also raise
lecturer salaries.
Resolution in Honor of Chancellor Charlie Nelms
President Bollinger called on Regent Maynard, who read the following
resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan salute Chancellor
Charlie Nelms as he leaves the University on July 31, 1998, to become
assistant to the president of Indiana University.
Chancellor Nelms has proven himself to be a strong advocate and
able administrator since his appointment as chancellor and professor of
education at the University of Michigan-Flint in 1994. Known for his
personal warmth, integrity, and eloquence, Chancellor Nelms is, first
and foremost, a teacher. Drawing from his own personal experience, he
speaks passionately about the importance of education and the need for
broad access to educational opportunities, and meets often with
students, parents, and community leaders to develop innovative ways to
help youth excel.
Under Chancellor Nelms' leadership, the University of MichiganFlint expanded and improved the quality of its academic programs and
services, extending service hours to accommodate students' work,
family, and school schedules. Chancellor Nelms enhanced outreach
efforts to provide field experiences for students and to provide
businesses and nonprofit agencies with technical assistance stemming
from the University's expertise and resources. He added three new
master's degree programs-in education, in nursing, and in health
administration-and recently obtained approval for a new School of
Education and Human Services. Chancellor Nelms also secured more


9




July Meeting, 1998


than $50 million in gifts, grants, and property, enlarging the Flint
campus's physical plant and strengthening its financial base. In honor
of the numerous contributions that Chancellor Nelms and his wife,
Jeanetta, have made to the campus and the community, Flint area
residents recently established the Charlie and Jeanetta Nelms Endowed
Scholarship for University of Michigan-Flint students.
In recognition of his exemplary service, the Regents now name
Charlie Nelms chancellor emeritus of the University of Michigan-Flint.
There followed a standing ovation, after which Chancellor Nelms
responded. He expressed his appreciation to the Board of Regents for the
opportunity to serve and wished his successors well.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Power read the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(a) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202 and 1996 PA 464, the Board of Regents will now meet in
closed session for the purpose of considering a periodic personnel
evaluation of a person who has requested confidentiality.
The meeting then continued in executive session beginning at 11:30 a.m.,
and reconvened in public session at 2:00 p.m.
Lane Hall Renovations and Addition
Executive Vice President Kasdin called on Mr. David Evans, architect for
Quinn Evans/Architects, design consultants on the Lane Hall renovations and
addition project. Mr. Evans described the site and displayed proposed floor
plans and renderings of the exterior treatment. He reviewed the exterior
design objectives that had been approved by the Regents and illustrated how
these objectives had been met by the proposed design.
Executive Vice President Kasdin pointed out that subsequent to the
approval of the preliminary budget, it was learned that the parapet around
the building was in poor condition and needed to be rebuilt. Thus, an
additional $500,000 is being requested for this purpose.
Regent Deitch moved approval of the project design and increase in
scope, as well as authorization for soliciting bids and awarding a construction
contract if the bids are within budget. Regent Power seconded the motion,
and it was approved unanimously. The Regents complimented Mr. Evans on
the building's design.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan
and IntraLase Corporation ("Compact Pulse Stretcher-Compressor
Using a Single Transmission Grating")
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Maynard, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved a license agreement between the
University of Michigan and IntraLase Corporation regarding the invention,
"Compact Pulse Stretcher-Compressor Using a Single Transmission Grating."
Because Tibor Juhasz and Ron Kurtz are University of Michigan employees


10




July Meeting, 1998


who also hold equity interest in IntraLase, this agreement falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and IntraLase
Corporation, a company in which Tibor Juhasz and Ron Kurtz hold an
equity interest.
2.   Contract terms include:
This license agreement with IntraLase Corporation will generally be subject
to the terms and conditions of an existing agreement with IntraLase
Corporation regarding laser micromachining technology (TMO File #939),
which the Regents have previously approved. Some of the terms of that
existing agreement are modified specific to this new technology. The terms
given below are summarized as they relate to the currently proposed license.
IntraLase Corporation will reimburse the University for all patent expenses.
There will be no additional initial fee.
Royalties to the University will remain the same as included in the prior
license to IntraLase Corporation for laser micromachining technology (TMO
File #939). The royalty will be the same regardless of whether the new
technology is used in a given product alone or in a given product with other
technologies also licensed to IntraLase from the University:
2-1/2% on net sales of products if covered by a current patent;
1-1/2 % on net sales of certain other related products, for a limited number
of years.
Royalties of 25% on sublicense revenue, where the sublicense is completed
before December 16, 1998; and 15% for other sublicenses.
Exclusive right to practice and commercialize the technology for all fields of
use, subject to certain rights reserved by the University to practice it for
research and educational purposes, and to grant licenses to the United
States Government to the extent required under relevant research support
agreements, should such exist. The University retains ownership.
Minimum annual royalties of $5,000.00 for 1999; $10,000.00 for 2000; and
$15,000.00 for 2001 and each year thereafter during the term of the
agreement. These are the amounts already required under the prior license
for TMO File #939.
Term of the agreement is for the life of any patents that might be issued on
the subject concept.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Tibor Juhasz and Ron Kurtz arise from their
ownership interest in IntraLase Corporation. They were not inventors in
]the subject invention and will therefore not be eligible for any personal
participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University from the
company.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan
and IntraLase Corporation ("Transcleral and Transconjunctival
Laser Photodisruption for Glaucoma Surgery")
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent McGowan, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved a license agreement between the
University of Michigan and IntraLase Corporation regarding the invention
"Transcleral and Transconjunctival Laser Photodisruption for Glaucoma
Surgery." Because Tibor Juhasz and Ron Kurtz are University of Michigan
employees who also hold equity interest in IntraLase, this agreement falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:


11




July Meeting, 1998


1.   Parties to the Agreement are the University of Michigan and IntraLase
Corporation, a company in which Tibor Juhasz and Ron Kurtz hold an
equity interest.
2.   Contract terms include:
This license agreement with IntraLase Corporation will generally be subject
to the terms and conditions of an existing agreement with IntraLase
Corporation regarding laser micromachining technology (TMO File #939),
which the Regents have previously approved. Some of the terms of the
existing agreement are modified specific to this new technology. The terms
given below are summarized as they relate to the currently proposed license.
IntraLase Corporation will reimburse the University for all patent expenses.
There will be no additional initial fee.
Royalties to the University will remain the same as included in the prior
license to IntraLase Corporation for laser micromachining technology. The
royalty will be the same regardless of whether the new technology is used in
a given product alone or in a given product with other technologies also
licensed to IntraLase from the University:
2-1/2% on net sales of products if covered by a current patent;
1-1/2 % on net sales of certain other related products for a limited number
of years.
Royalties of 25% on sublicense revenue, where the sublicense is completed
before December 16, 1998; and 15% for other sublicenses.
Exclusive right to practice and commercialize the technology for all fields of
use, subject to certain rights reserved by the University to practice it for
research and educational purposes, and to grant licenses to the United
States Government to the extent required under relevant research support
agreements, should such exist. The University retains ownership.
Minimum annual royalties of $5,000.00 for 1999; $10,000.00 for 2000; and
$15,000.00 for 2001 and each year thereafter during the term of the
agreement. These are the amounts already required under the prior license
for TMO File #939.
Term of the agreement is for the life of any patents that might be issued on
the subject concept.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Tibor Juhasz and Ron Kurtz arise from their
ownership interest in IntraLase Corporation. They will waive any personal
participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University from the
company.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan
and Q-Dot Acoustics
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Deitch, all seven
Regents present unanimously approved a license agreement between the
University of Michigan and Q-Dot Acoustics, for further development of a
technology known as "Beamformed Ultrasonic Imager with Delta-Sigma
Feedback Control." Because Matthew O'Donnell holds an equity interest in
Q-Dot Acoustics and is also a University of Michigan employee, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Q-Dot
Acoustics, a company in which Matthew O'Donnell holds an equity interest.
2.   Contract terms include:
A license issue fee of $1, 500.00.
Royalties to the University on sales are to be determined at a later time, before
any distribution of products by Q-Dot Acoustics, should the company decide to
sell products. The current intent of the company is to further develop the
12




July Meeting, 1998


technology, and then to sublicense it. Such sublicenses are expected to be with
one or more development partners.
Royalties of 8% on sublicense revenue.
Exclusive right to practice and commercialize the technology, subject to
certain rights reserved by the University to practice it for research and
educational purposes. The University retains its co-ownership interest with
Q-Dot. This license is also subject to the right of the University to grant a
license for government purposes to the United States government to the
extent it might be required under agreements for research funding.
Minimum annual royalties of $500.00 for 2000; and $1,000.00 for 1999 and
each year thereafter during the term of the agreement.
Term of the agreement is for the life of the patent.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.  Matthew O'Donnell's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest
in Q-Dot Acoustics. He has waived any personal participation in the sharing
of royalties received by the University from the company.
1998-99 Operating Budgets
Regent Power commented that Provost Cantor's budget presentation
had been "conceptionally brilliant, passionate, concerned, and compelling."
He questioned why the School of Information was the only one of the schools
and colleges on the Ann Arbor campus not to receive an increase in support.
Provost Cantor responded that this school had received increased support in
the form of a one-time source of support from academic program funds, rather
than in this budget allocation. She noted that this school's enrollment profile
has been fluctuating, and that a plan is in place to stabilize the enrollment.
Regent McGowan observed that Provost Cantor's most compelling point
was that the provost, president, and Regents share the responsibility in
preparing the budget of insuring that the University is better in the future
than it is today, and that Provost Cantor had made it very clear what it is
that we are trying to accomplish and need to support.
Regent McFee commented that certain assumptions in revenues are
made in developing budgets, and then expenditures are proposed to reflect
the emphasis on which the budget is based. Provost Cantor's presentation
very clearly articulated how the proposed budget would help direct the
University toward achieving its goals of developing today's students into the
leaders of tomorrow for the state and the nation. She said that the revenue
stream for the budget, which includes a significant tuition increase in
response to the other anticipated sources of revenue, has been carefully
constructed to carry out that role. She said that Provost Cantor had provided
a good explanation of what the tuition increase would do for students, and
that she was prepared to support it.
Regent Newman observed that she believes that all of the programs
outlined by Provost Cantor are important for the institution, and she
commended her for her presentation. She stated that her vote on the tuition
increase does not reflect a disagreement with the provost or the president on
University priorities. She stated that her concerns, according to data she
believes to be true, are the discrepancy between the state appropriations
increase of 2.8 percent (which, she noted, is effectively a 2.3 percent increase


13




July Meeting, 1998


due to the change in the scheduled payout) and the University's tuition
increase of 3.9 percent, plus a $30 LS&A technology fee, which yields a 4.9
percent increase for lower division LS&A students. According to her
understanding, this will lead to an approximate increase in the General Fund
of 4.9 percent, which is more than double the rate of inflation.
Regent Newman noted that she had been asking for four years for there
to be an examination of alternative ways to contain costs and save money to
put toward the academic mission. She said she was pleased to see a significant
decrease in the central administration budget and would like to suggest that
the schools and colleges do the same. She observed that there seems to be a lot
of overlap, and it might be wise to review the policy of decentralization of
administrative functions. She said that "other than these cuts in central
administration, it is difficult for me to see where cost containment and savings
are taking place. Therefore, although I agree with the mission, I do not agree
with how it is being funded. Michigan is a great public institution, and I want
it to remain that way; I also want it to be affordable."
Regent Deitch observed that from a business standpoint, Michigan
should not necessarily view itself as the lowest cost provider, but rather as
the highest quality provider.  He also said that education is not a
commodity; rather it has special values that translate over a lifetime for
students in tangible and intangible ways. Regent Deitch said that he was
pleased that in this budget, all of the growth is within the academic units.
He noted that the faculty is at the heart of the University's greatness, and
that they have economic needs and aspirations and are being recruited by
our competitors. He said it is the Regents' responsibility as stewards of the
University to ensure its continued excellence; therefore, he supports the
budget. He also commented that he believes the administration has made
great strides in the area of cost containment, and this is another reason that
the budget has his full support.
Regent Maynard observed that it is always difficult to support a tuition
increase when it exceeds the cost of living, and she continues to support the
goal of student accessibility remaining a top priority. However, she noted
that Provost Cantor had eloquently expressed in her presentation the
University's top priorities of hiring and retention of the highest quality
faculty, maintaining the quality of the library system, and expanding the
definition of the classroom. There is also evidence that the administration has
been working very hard at cost containment issues. For these reasons, among
others, she said she was very comfortable supporting the proposed budget.
Regent Taylor commented that he generally supports the budget, but
doesn't believe that the CPI is an appropriate comparison for the rate of
increase. He suggested that the administration perhaps engage outside
consultants to conduct a study of its "supply chain" of business practices
that affect its costs, as many people believe that these can be most efficiently
be done outside the institution.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. The minutes of the June 1998 meeting were submitted for
approval.


14




July Meeting, 1998


Reports.    Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports of
Investment, Plant Extension, Human Resources and Affirmative Action, and
Non-competitive Purchases over $5,000. Interim Co-General Counsel Barry
submitted the Litigation Report. Vice President Neidhardt submitted the
Report of Projects Established for June 1998 and described the work of a
functional magnetic resonance imaging research laboratory, to be operated
jointly by the College of Engineering, the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and the Medical School.
Executive Vice President Omenn reported that the U.S. News and World
Report would be coming out soon with a ranking of all U.S. hospitals, and 14
of these had made the honor roll. He also noted that the medical center was
pursing the academic initiatives he had mentioned previously and announced
that one of these, an initiative to have the six basic science departments and
four interdepartmental/inter-school programs collaborate in developing a
program under which all Ph.D. candidates would be jointly recruited, admitted,
mentored, and would pursue some common core course work, had been
endorsed by the basic science faculty and would be implemented during the
coming year. He also reported on several other ventures underway in the
health affairs area.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin announced that the final
report on gifts for the 1997-98 fiscal year would be presented at the
September meeting.
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor reported that Barbara O'Keefe
was being recommended as the first director of the Media Union. She also
announced the creation of the new position of assistant vice president for
academic and student affairs and the proposed appointment of David Schoem
to that position.
President Bollinger announced the recommended appointment of
Beverly Schmoll as interim chancellor at the University of Michigan-Flint.
Executive Vice President Omenn announced the proposed appointment of
Douglas Strong as associate vice president for finance and strategy at the
University of Michigan Health System.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Beckman, Gary, Ph.D., Professor of Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Cody, Robert J., M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 1, 1998
Gladwin, Thomas N., Ph.D., Max McGraw Professor of Corporate and Environmental
Management, five year term, and Professor of Business Administration, with tenure,
School of Business Administration, and Professor of Natural Resources and
Environment, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and Environment
Hayes, Curtis W., M.D., Professor of Radiology, Medical School, August 1, 1998
Hecht, Gabrielle, Ph.D., Associate Professor of History and Associate Professor of History,
Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Kiihn, Kai-Uwe, D.Phil., Associate Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, October 1, 1998
Lillard, Lee, Ph.D., Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts


15




July Meeting, 1998


O'Keefe, Barbara J., Ph.D., Professor of Information, School of Information
Ramaswamy, Sumathi, Ph.D., Associate Professor of History, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Smith, Lones, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Thomason, Sarah G., Ph.D., Professor of Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1, 1999
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Alwin, Duane F., Chair, Department of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, five year term, July 1, 1998
Ashford, Susan J., Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, three year term,
July 1, 1998
Devlin, John F., Interim Chair, Department of Natural Sciences, UM-Dearborn College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, ten month term
Dworkin, Steven N., Interim Chair, Department of Romance Languages and Literatures,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, one year term, July 1, 1998
Harris, A. Melissa, from Interim Associate Dean for Administration to Assistant Dean for
Academic Affairs, College of Architecture and Urban Planning, five year term,
August 1, 1998
Jones, Charles A., from Special Assistant to the Provost, UM Flint, to Interim Dean,
UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services, one year term, July 1, 1998
Talbot, Frederick B., Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, three year term
Traugott, Michael W., Chair, Department of Communication Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, three year term, July 1, 1998
Yoffee, Norman, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Farley, W. Reynolds, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and the Otis Dudley Duncan
Collegiate Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research leave extended
Freedman, Jonathan E., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with
tenure, and Associate Professor of American Studies, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, research leave
Henderson, Shane G., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College
of Engineering, personal leave extended, September 1, 1998-December 31, 1999
Kolars, Joseph C., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School,
personal leave extended September 1, 1998-August 31, 1999
Stevens, Jacqueline A., Assistant Professor of Political Science and Women's Studies, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave extended
ESTABLISHING AND, RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective July 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Establishing Professorships
Alfred G. Meyer Collegiate Professorship in History, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, five year renewable term, September 1, 1998
Elizabeth A. Long Professorship in Law, Law School
Robert Frost Collegiate Professorship in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, five year renewable term, September 1, 1998
Thomas G. Long Professorship in Law, Law School


16




July Meeting, 1998


Thomas G. And Mabel Long Professorship in Law, Law School
New Academic Administrative Position
Assistant Vice President for Academic and Student Affairs, September 1, 1998
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective September 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Appointments to Professorships
Ashford, Susan J., Michael and Susan Jandernoa Professor of Business Administration,
School of Business Administration, five year term
DeLancey, John O., Norman F. Miller Professor of Gynecology, Medical School, five year term
Easter, Stephen S., Jr., Mathew Alpern Collegiate Professor of Biology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, five year term, July 1, 1998
Eccles, Jacquelynne S., Wilbert J. McKeachie Collegiate Professor of Psychology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, five year term, July 1, 1998
Johnson, Michael D., D. Maynard Phelps Collegiate Professor of Business Administration,
School of Business Administration, five year term
Kaul, Gautam, John C. And Sally S. Morley Professor of Finance, School of Business
Administration, five year term
Marcus, Joyce, Elman R. Service Collegiate Professor of Evolution (Anthropology), College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, five year term
Masten, Scott E., Louis and Myrtle Moskowitz Research Professor of Business and Law,
School of Business Administration, one year term
McNamara, James A., Jr., Drs. Thomas M. And Doris Graber Endowed Professor of
Dentistry, School of Dentistry, three year term
Seyhun, Hasan N., Jerome B. and Eilene M. York Professor of Business Administration,
School of Business Administration, five year term
Skinner, Douglas J., KPMG Professor of Accounting, School of Business Administration,
five year term
Weinstein, David E., Sanford R. Robertson Associate Professor of Business Administration,
School of Business Administration, one year term
Reappointments to Professorships
Capozza, Dennis R., Stephen M. Ross Professor of Real Estate, School of Business
Administration, five year term
Cooper, Edward H., Thomas M. Cooley Professor of Law, Law School, five year term
Deardoff, Alan V., John W. Sweetland Professor of International Economics, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, four year term
Krier, James E., Earl Warren DeLano Professor of Law, Law School, five year term
Lovejoy, William S., John Psarouthakis Research Professor of Manufacturing Management,
School of Business Administration, two year term
Martin, Claude R., Jr., Isadore and Leon Winkelman Professor of Retail Marketing, School of
Business Administration, five year term
Prahalad, Coimbatore K., Harvey C. Fruehauf Professor of Business Administration, School
of Business Administration, five year term
Severance, Dennis G., Arthur Andersen Professor of Computers and Information Systems,
School of Business Administration, five year term
Weick, Karl E., Rensis Likert Collegiate Professor of Organizational Behavior and
Psychology, School of Business Administration, five year term
Weinstein, David E., Research Professor of Japanese Business, School of Business
Administration, two year term
Other Transactions
Cohen, Michael D., from Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information (75%),
Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
(25%), and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Health, to
Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information (100%), Professor of
Political Science, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Health


17




July Meeting, 1998


Murdock, James L., Assistant Dean for Finance and Planning, School of Business
Administration, August 1, 1998
Olson, Gary M., from Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information (50%),
and Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
(50%), to Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information (100%), and
Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Otto, Charlotte A., Associate Provost, UM-Dearborn, three year term
Schmoll, Beverly J., from Dean of Graduate Programs and Research, UM-Flint, to Interim
Chancellor, UM-Flint, August 1, 1998
Schoem, David, from Assistant Dean, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts (100%), to
Assistant Dean, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts (25%), and Assistant Vice
President for Academic and Student Affairs (75%), September 1-December 31, 1998, and
to Assistant Vice President for Academic and Student Affairs (100%), January 1, 1999
Strong, Douglas L., Associate Vice President for Finance and Strategy, UM Health System
Wilhelme, Frank C., Assistant Dean for Development, School of Business Administration,
August 1, 1998
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Advisory Committee on Recreational Sports
Huesmann, L. Rowell, July 1, 1998-June 30, 2000, vice Jack L. Goldberg, term expired
Reynolds, Charles A., July 1, 1998-June 30, 2000, vice Kent J. Sheets, term expired
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Hartford, Maureen, ex-officio, July 1, 1998-June 20, 1999, vice Walt Harrison, resigned
Metzger, Bonnie L., July 1, 1998-June 20, 2001, vice Joyce I. Lindeman, term expired
Papadopoulos, Stephen M., reappointed July 1, 1998-June 30, 2001
Reichinbach, Ashley E., student representative, July 1, 1998-June 30, 2000, vice Michelle
Wolbert, term expired
College of Engineering Executive Committee
Beck, Robert F., July 1, 1998-June 30, 2002, vice Ronald Gibala, term expired
Division of Kinesiology Executive Committee
George, Thomas R., July 1, 1998-June 30, 2000, vice David J. Moore, term expired
Watkins, Bruce A., July 1, 1998-June 30, 2000, vice Susan H. C. Brown, term expired
Michigan League Board of Governors
Gebarski, Stephen S., reappointed, July 1, 1998-June 30, 2001
Military Officer Education Committee
Blair, David C., July 1, 1998-June 30, 2001, open position
Pierce, Penny F., reappointed July 1, 1998-June 30, 2001
School of Natural Resources and Environment Executive Committee
Brown, Terry J., June 30, 1998-May 31, 2000, vice Robert G. Grese, term expired
Yaffee, Steven L., reappointed July 1, 1998-May 31, 2000
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Hagerty, Bonnie M., July 1, 1998-June 30, 2001, vice Ruth M. Barnard, term expired
Williams Reg A., July 1, 1998-June 30, 2001, vice Carol J. Boyd, term expired
UM-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
Economy, Stephen T., July 1, 1998-June 30, 2002, new appointment
Ford, Geraldine B., reappointed July 1, 1998-June 30, 2002
Ghafari, Yousif, reappointed July 1, 1998-June 30, 2002
Horonzy, Joseph G., reappointed July 1, 1998-June 30, 2002
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
Gillespie, John A., September 1, 1998-August 31, 2001, vice David A. James, term expired
Gruber, James E., September 1, 1998-August 31, 2001, vice Daniel J. Swift, term expired
Parsons, Marilee B., September 1-December 31, 1998, vice John F. Devlin, on sabbatical
Smith, Jonathan, July 1, 1998-August 31, 1999, vice Paul M. Hughes, term expired


18




July Meeting, 1998


University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board
Greenfield, Lazar J., July 1, 1998-June 30, 2002, vice Mark B. Orringer, term expired
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Afify, Alaa M., M.B.CH.B., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pathology, Medical School,
three year term
Al-Khafaji, Basim M., M.B.CH.B., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pathology, Medical School,
three year term
Bainbridge, David R., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, two month term
Baird, Darryl G., M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Art, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001
Bardenstein, Carol B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Arabic Language and Culture, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001
Brennan, Beverly, M.D., Clinical Instructor II In Internal Medicine, Medical School,
one year term
Cadigan, Kenneth M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001
Cronk, Michael S., M.M.ST., Lecturer in Information Studies, School of Information, one
year term, June 1, 1998
DeLong, Matthew E., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, two month term
Dykstra, Timothy A., B.S., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, two month term, June 1, 1998
Edwards, Jonathan C., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Neurology, Medical School, two
month term
Finkelstein, Jerome I., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Ophthalmology, Medical
School, one year term, February 16, 1998
Guerrero, Elisabeth S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Spanish, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Johnson, Rodney C., Ph.D., Lecturer in Technology Communication, College of Engineering, one
year term, May 1, 1998
Lark, Kurt K., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, one year term, July 7, 1998
Luera, Gail R., M.S., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Mangrulkar, Rajesh S., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
one year term
Morgan, Stephanie M., B.S., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, two month term
Munford, James R., M.A., Assistant Professor of Aerospace Studies, Air Force Officer
Education Program, three year term, May 26, 1998
Naficy, Sam, M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, one year term
Patel, Dakshesh S., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, one year term
Perlow, Leslie A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, School of Business Administration, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001
Ramsburgh, Stephen R., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pathology, Medical School, one year term
Reynolds, Christopher M., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term
Rockwell, David T., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, one year term
Saint, Sanjay K., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one year term
Schooler, Gerald J., M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Theatre, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001
Taylor, Traki L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001
Vaillant, Derek W., Assistant Professor of Communication Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001
Vander Have, Kenneth, Jr., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, Medical School,
one year term


19




July Meeting, 1998


Vazzana, Anthony, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, two month term, May 1, 1998
Winsten, Beth T., M.A., Lecturer II in Film and Video, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, seven month term, May 1, 1998
Wong, Jeffrey H., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, one year term
Yang, Michael B., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, one year term, July 7, 1998
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Eschrich, Gabriella M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of French, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, (previously reported as Lecturer in French)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1998
Dorantes, Deanna M., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Anesthesiology, Medical
School, one year term
Fry-Welch, Donna K, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Physical Therapy, UM-Flint
School of Health Professions and Studies, three year term
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Kaufman, Peter B., Professor Emeritus of Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Weinreich, Gabriel, Professor Emeritus of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, June 1, 1998-July 31, 1999
La Du, Bert N., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Weber, Wendell W., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School, March 1, 1998 -April 30, 1999
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Anderson-Levitt, Kathryn M., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College
of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1998
Barnes, Burton V., Stephen H. Spurr Professor of Forestry, with tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Bhattacharya, Pallab K., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Bloch, Anthony M., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus
Canary, Richard D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave
Canning, Kathleen M., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Associate Professor of History and
Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly
activity leave
Ching, Yau, Lecturer III in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, research leave
Farrehi, Janice G., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, personal
leave, July 13, 1998- June 30, 1999


20




July Meeting, 1998


Flax, Neil M., Associate Professor of Comparative Literature and German, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, September 1-December 31, 1998
Genne, Beth, Associate Professor of Dance, without tenure, School of Music, and Associate
Professor of Art History, without tenure, Residential College, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, research leave
Gibala, Ronald, Frances E. Vanvlack Professor of Materials Science and Engineering and
Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering and Macromolecular Science and
Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave
Haddad, George I., Robert J. Hiller Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science and Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave
Hanson, Ann E., Professor of Greek and Latin, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, teaching leave
Kalisch, Phillip A., Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, personal leave
Lazarsfeld, Robert K., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, scholarly activity leave
Loesche, Walter J., Marcus L. Ward Professor of Dentistry and Professor of Dentistry, with
tenure, School of Dentistry, and Professor of Microbiology, with tenure, Medical
School, retirement furlough (phased), May 1, 1998-August 31, 2000
Milne, James S., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, personal leave, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Moss, Thylias, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus
Nowak, Paul F., Associate Professor of Natural Resources, without tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, retirement furlough (phased)
Rauch, Jeffrey B., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave,
September 1-December 31, 1998
Stoermer, Eugene F., Professor of Natural Resources, without tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, teaching leave, June 21, 1998-July 21, 1998
Travis, William J., Assistant Professor of Art History, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, personal leave, January 1-April 30, 1999
Wahr, Joyce A., Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, and Assistant Dean,
Medical School, sabbatical leave, July 1, 1997-June 30, 1998
Weinstein, Michael I., Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave
Whatley, Warren, Professor of Economics and Afroamerican and African Studies, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, personal leave
Williams, David R., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave
Wise, Kensall D., J. Reid and Polly Anderson Professor of Manufacturing Technology, Professor
of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, and Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Murray, Barbara B., Associate Professor of Business Economics and Finance, UM-Dearborn
School of Management, retirement furlough, September 1, 1997-December 31, 1998
(previously reported as September 1, 1997- April 30, 1999
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Baxter, Gail P., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, August 31, 1998
Bell, Lisa A., Lecturer in Business Administration, School of Business Administration,
June 12, 1998
Brodeur, Frederick J., Jr., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Cameron, Judith W., Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 1998


21




July Meeting, 1998


Carpino, Alexandra A., Assistant Professor of Art History, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, April 30, 1998
Clark, Kathleen C., Assistant Professor of French, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, April 30, 1998
Daneshgari, Parviz P., Assistant Professor of Engineering Science, UM-Flint College of Arts
and Sciences, June 30, 1998
Garrity, James, Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 19, 1998
Gregory, Lori, Lecturer in Education, UM-Dearborn School of Education, June 30, 1998
Jordan, Richard K., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 1998
Kapur, Jaideep, Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Kingery, Suzanne, Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, June 30, 1998
Lange, Kenneth, Pharmacia & Upjohn Foundation Research Professor of Biostatistics and
Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health, and Professor of
Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 1998
Lee, Stephen, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 1998
Lee, Chi-Wook, Assistant Professor of Engineering Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, June 30, 1998
McDevitt, Susanne E., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 1998
Punukollu, Pavan K., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Rabasa, Jose M., Associate Professor of Spanish and Latin American Literature, with tenure,
and Chair, Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, June 30, 1998
Redman, Richard W., Interim Associate Dean for Community Partnerships, and Associate
Professor of Nursing, without tenure, School of Nursing, August 14, 1998
Saveliev, Nikolai N., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, July 31, 1998
Strand, Kendall J., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Vivian, John R., Assistant Professor of Kinesiology and Director, Sports Research
Laboratory, Division of Kinesiology, June 30, 1998
Weiss, Sharon W., A. James French Professor of Diagnostic Pathology and Professor of
Pathology, with tenure, Medical School, July 3, 1998
Yang, Tonghai, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1998
Zivot, Joel B., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Retired
Becker, Marjorie C., Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical
School, June 30, 1998
DeRosayro, Alexis M., Clinical Associate Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School,
May 31, 1998
Hessler, David W., Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information, May 31, 1998
Hildebrandt, Herbert W., Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, School of
Business Administration, and Professor of Communication Studies, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1998
Lorey, Robert E., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, June 30, 1998
Term Completed
Abdella, Jennifer A., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 1997
Bloch, Craig A., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, June 30, 1998
Chamberlin, Richard W., Lecturer II in German, Residential College, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Chow, Timothy Y., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 1998
Ferrarese, Michelle A., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 1997
Fridrich, Raimund M., Lecturer I in German, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1998
Gerbarski, Kathleen M., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 1998


22




July Meeting, 1998


Gockenbach, Mark S., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 31, 1998
Gordon, Marilyn L., Lecturer in Business Communications, School of Business Administration,
April 30, 1998
Hasso, Frances S., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1998
Hill, Elliott E., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, May 31, 1998
Hsu, Timothy M., T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1998
Keyek-Franssen, Deborah L., Lecturer II in German, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 1998
Lease, Patricia H., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1997
Lubben, Kara R., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 1998
McDermott, Martin J., Lecturer in Business Administration, School of Business Administration,
May 25, 1998
Miller, Bradford L., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, August 31, 1997
Novero, Cecilia, Lecturer I in German, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1998
Peters-Golden, Holly, Lecturer II in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, June 30, 1998
Rastalsky, Hartmut M., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1997
Richards, Eliza C., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, August 31, 1997
Tipton, Sara M., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1997
Vanderborgh, Mark A., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1997
Weider, Katherine C., Lecturer II in Program in Film and Video Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 1997
Retirement Memoirs. Provost Cantor submitted six faculty retirement
memoirs.
Sharon A. Balius, senior associate librarian, retired on May 29, 1998,
following 36 years of service.
Ms. Balius earned her B.S. degree at Stout State University (Wisconsin)
in 1962 and her A.M.L.S. degree from the University of Michigan in 1972. She
joined the University of Michigan library staff in 1962 as an order clerk, and
in 1965 she moved to the Engineering-Transportation Library. There she was
promoted to assistant librarian in 1972, associate librarian in 1974, and senior
associate librarian in 1980.
Ms. Balius' primary focus was the Transportation History Collection,
which contains over 70,000 pieces, including rare books and pamphlets, reports,
prints, photographs, maps, railroad and canal reports, automobile brochures,
scrapbooks, and memorabilia. Ms. Balius was responsible for organizing the
collection, selecting new materials for it, and making it known to scholars.
Later, she was put in charge of the Serials Unit in Engineering-Transportation
and then became head of reference. In the early 1980s, she served on two
different groups examining the manner in which government publications
should be managed and on a third group which looked at serials management.
In each case, the recommendations of these groups led to significant changes in
the organization of physical space as well as the processing routines.
In 1989, shortly after the introduction of the library's first on-line
catalog, "MIRLYN," Ms. Balius was named coordinator for the planning and
implementation of the acquisitions and serials check-in components for the
23




July Meeting, 1998


next stage development of MIRLYN. In this position, she led the effort to
transfer the recording of new journal issues from a totally manual process to
an on-line process. In 1991, Ms. Balius was named acting head of monograph
acquisitions for the University Library, where she helped improve efficiency
in the ordering processes. She also participated in the job of adding
acquisitions records to MIRLYN for patron use.
The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian by naming Sharon
A. Balius senior associate librarian emerita.
Marjorie C. Becker, assistant professor of physical medicine and
rehabilitation, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1998.
Professor Becker received her B.S. degree in physical therapy from the
University of Michigan in 1958 and her M.A. degree from The Ohio State
University in 1962. She joined the University of Michigan Department of
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation in 1962 as an instructor in the Physical
Therapy Curriculum Program. She was promoted to assistant professor in 1971
and was also an adjunct assistant professor in the School of Nursing from
1984-91. In 1978, Professor Becker was appointed assistant dean for allied
health education in the Medical School and remained in that position until 1991.
In the course of her career, Professor Becker has held numerous
administrative positions. From 1968-73, she was patient program coordinator
at Parkview Rehabilitation and from 1972-77 was an associate in physical
therapy at the Institute for the Study of Mental Retardation and Related
Disabilities. Within University of Michigan Hospitals, she was acting assistant
director of ambulatory services from 1974-76, assistant director for professional
services from 1976-83, and director of allied health professions education from
1978-97. She was assistant personnel director and personnel administrator in
the Medical Campus human resources department from 1983-87. Professor
Becker also held a functional/internal title of administrator for graduate
medical education, Office of Clinical Affairs, University Hospitals, from 1987-97.
Professor Becker contributed strength, vitality, and enthusiastic leadership not
only to the Physical Therapy Curriculum Program but to all of her
administrative functions as well.
Professor Becker attained a national reputation in physical therapy and
health care administration. She has been elected or appointed to numerous
committees and boards in state and national organizations and served on the
Physical Therapy Licensing Board of the Michigan Department of Licensing
from 1982-93.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member and
administrator for her dedicated service by naming Marjorie C. Becker
assistant professor emerita of physical medicine and rehabilitation.
David W. Hessler, Ph.D., professor of information in the School of
Information, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1998.
Professor Hessler received his A.B. degree from the University of Michigan
in geography and economics in 1955, his A.M. degree from the University of
Michigan in media management and curriculum development in 1961, and his
Ph.D. degree from Michigan State University in instructional systems and
technology in 1972. His career at the University of Michigan began in 1961 as
a part-time lecturer in the School of Education. He became associate director


24




July Meeting, 1998


of the Audiovisual Education Center in 1964 and served in that capacity until
1967, when he left the University to accept an assistant professorship at
Western Michigan University. He was promoted to associate professor in
1971. In 1977, he returned to the University of Michigan as professor of
library science. During his tenure at Michigan, he has served as the director
of instructional strategy services for the School of Education and School of
Library Science and as a visiting professor at the Universidade de Brasilia in
Brasilia, Brazil.
Professor Hessler's impact on the curriculum has been particularly felt in
the areas of emerging technology, multimedia, and instructional strategies. In
his twenty years of teaching at Michigan, he has seen the School of Library
Science evolve into the School of Information, and his subject areas have
played an integral role in the curricular evolution of the school. He is beloved
by his students for his boundless enthusiasm, his expertise in fast-breaking
technologies, and his caring attitude and devotion to students.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
David W. Hessler professor emeritus of information.
Herbert W. Hildebrandt, Ph.D., professor of business administration
in the School of Business Administration, and professor of communication
studies in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active
faculty status on May 31, 1998.
Professor Hildebrandt received his B.A. degree from Wartburg College in
1952 and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Wisconsin in
1955 and 1958, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in
1958 as an instructor in speech and was promoted to assistant professor in 1961,
associate professor in 1965, and professor of speech in 1971. He assumed a
joint appointment as a lecturer in the School of Business Administration in
1970 and was promoted to professor of business administration in 1971.
From 1966-70, he also served as secretary of the university and assistant to
the president.
Professor Hildebrandt's service to the University and his profession has
been extraordinary. He has served on numerous University-wide committees,
including having chaired the University Committee on Ceremonials, which
was charged with planning and carrying out the University's Sesquicentennial
celebration in 1967. An active participant in professional associations, he has
served as president of the Association of Business Communication and in
1994 received that organization's Outstanding Researcher Award.
Professor Hildebrandt has been an extremely dedicated and productive
researcher and teacher. He was among the group of visionaries who recognized
early the importance of international research, focusing his attention on such
research streams as sociological patterns and lifestyles of U.S. and Asian
middle managers and on international management communication issues. His
file is full of letters attesting to the impact his instruction in oral and written
communication has had on generations of students. From his love of and
insistence upon communication excellence, to his skillful classroom
instruction, to his administrative contributions, Professor Hildebrandt's
influence has extended broadly across the University.


25




July Meeting, 1998


The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Herbert W.
Hildebrandt professor emeritus of business administration and professor
emeritus of communication studies.
Robert E. Lorey, D.D.S., professor of dentistry in the School of
Dentistry, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1998.
Dr. Lorey received his D.D.S. degree in 1957 and his M.S. degree in crown
and bridge prosthodontics in 1961, both from the University of Michigan. He
joined the University of Michigan faculty as a clinical instructor in 1959. He was
appointed assistant professor in 1963 and promoted to associate professor in
1967 and professor in 1970. During his tenure at the School of Dentistry, he
served as acting department chair four times and was chair of the Department of
Crown and Bridge Prosthodontics from November 1985 through August 1987.
Dr. Lorey has been a strong participant in the department's teaching and
clinic activity, both at the pre doctoral and graduate levels and through
continuing dental education programs. He served on more than 20 master's
thesis committees and has published extensively in the area of crown and bridge
prosthodontics. For his creative teaching in a self-instructional medium, in 1973
Dr. Lorey was awarded an international first prize for an outstanding
instructional videotape by the Health Sciences and Communications Association.
Within the Dental School, Dr. Lorey served on several committees and was
elected four times to the executive committee. He also served as an elected
member of the Faculty Senate. Dr. Lorey was a consultant to the Veterans
Administration Hospitals in Allen Park and in Ann Arbor and was a peer
review consultant to the Washtenaw District Dental Society. He is a charter
member of the Francis B. Vedder Society for Crown and Bridge Prosthodontics
and is a member of the American and Michigan Dental Associations, the
International Association for Dental Research, the Washtenaw District Dental
Society, and Omicron Kappa Upsilon and Phi Kappa Phi honorary societies.
The Regents salute this distinguished health sciences educator by
naming Robert E. Lorey professor emeritus of dentistry.
Daisy T. Wu, head of the Sciences Library and librarian, will retire from
active status on July 31, 1998, after ten years of service.
A native of Shanghai, China, Ms. Wu received her B.A. degree in 1955
from the College of St. Benedict and her M.L.S. degree in 1957 from the
Catholic University of America. From 1957-59, she worked at the University
of Illinois library and then the American Journal of Nursing Company
Library. In 1959, she moved to the University of Wisconsin at Madison,
working first in progressively responsible positions at the Middleton Health
Sciences Library and then as director of the Steenbock Agricultural and Life
Sciences Library from 1979-87.
Ms. Wu came to the University of Michigan in January 1988 as the
management information systems librarian at the University Library and then
became special assistant to the library's deputy director. In October 1989, she
was appointed interim coordinator of the Basic Science and Engineering
Libraries and in May 1991, she was selected as the permanent head, Basic
Sciences and Engineering Libraries. In this role, she oversaw the facilities and
services planning for both the new Shapiro Science Library and the Media


26




July Meeting, 1998


Union Library. Later, her responsibilities shifted once again to focus solely on
the Science Library, which had been created from the merger of the four
separate science libraries. Through her efforts, she has made an enormous
contribution to the University Library.
Throughout her career, Ms. Wu has been active professionally. She has
made many presentations on library services and buildings to librarians in
East Asia, most frequently in China, but also in Taiwan, Korea, and Japan.
She has been active in the Special Libraries Association. In Wisconsin, she
worked on development efforts, including an endowment for the purchase of
materials in the field of physics. Her tireless efforts in fundraising and
development for the Library will benefit users for generations to come.
The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian by naming Daisy T.
Wu librarian emerita.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. Provost Cantor submitted for approval the August 1998
Doctoral Degree List, the June 1998 and April 1998 degree lists, and changes
to previously approved degree lists.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded
by Regent Newman, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Alternative Asset Investment
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $10 million of the Long Term
Portfolio to Morgenthaler Venture Partners V, L.P., subject to a favorable
legal review of the documents by the Office of the General Counsel.
Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe VIII, L.P.
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents that the
University intends to make a $40 million follow-on investment in Welsh,
Carson, Anderson & Stowe VIII, L.P., which is a follow-on fund of a
previously approved fund.
Sale of Tax Exempt Commercial Paper to Finance University's
Projects
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously authorized an increase to up to $60.2 million in the
amount outstanding under the commercial paper supported by a pledge of
General Revenues.
Sale of Tax Exempt Commercial Paper by the University
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously authorized the following resolution for the issuance of
up to $120 million of commercial paper supported by a pledge of general
revenues and to authorize the executive vice president and chief financial
officer to: 1) execute all the documentation for the establishment of the new
series of commercial paper and the rollover of the outstanding commercial
paper into the new series; 2) apply for a rating from the rating agencies, if


27




July Meeting, 1998


necessary, for the new series of commercial paper; 3) increase the
commercial paper outstanding up to $73 million to refinance the bond issues
listed on exhibit I of the Regents Communication.
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY OF COMMERCIAL
PAPER NOTES, SERIES B, AND PROVIDING FOR
OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") constitutes a
constitutional body corporate established pursuant to Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan
Constitution of 1963, as amended, with the general supervision of the University of Michigan
(the "University") and the control and direction of all expenditures from the University's
funds; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has determined it is necessary and desirable to provide for the
temporary financing of capital projects of the University currently under way or to be
undertaken within the next succeeding eighteen months, through the issuance of Regents of
the University of Michigan Commercial Paper Notes, Series B (the "Notes"), in principal
amount outstanding from time to time not to exceed $120,000,000; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has determined it is necessary and appropriate to refund
through the issuance of Notes the outstanding balance of the Issuer s Commercial Paper
Notes, Series A (the "Prior Notes"), and the outstanding balance of the Issuer's $6,590,000
Recreational Activities Buildings Fee Refunding Bonds, $3,500,000 Dearborn Recreational
Buildings Fee Refunding Bonds, $10,180,000 Dearborn Campus Projects Fee Bonds,
$1,360,000 Institute of Continuing Legal Education Revenue Bonds and $24,985,000
Construction and Refunding Student Fee Bonds, Series 1987 (collectively, the "Prior
Bonds"); and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has approved certain capital projects to be temporarily
financed in whole or in part through the issuance of the Notes, and may approve additional
projects to be so financed in the next eighteen months (all such projects, together with the
projects financed or refinanced with the proceeds of the Prior Bonds and the Prior Notes
being herein called the "Projects"); and
WHEREAS, in order to provide for the issuance of the Notes, it will be necessary for
one or more of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the Associate Vice
President for Finance, or the Associate Vice President and Treasurer (each an "Authorized
Officer") to execute and deliver a Commercial Paper Issuance Certificate (the "Issuance
Certificate"), a Commercial Paper Issuing and Paying Agent Agreement (the "Paying Agent
Agreement") with a bank to be selected by an Authorized Officer, and one or more Dealer
Agreements (each a "Dealer Agreement") with a dealer or dealers (collectively, the "Dealer")
to be designated by an Authorized Officer; and
WHEREAS, the Notes are to be limited and not general obligations of the Issuer,
payable from and secured by a pledge of General Revenues (as defined in the Issuance
Certificate) and to be additionally payable from Available Investments (as defined in the
Issuance Certificate); and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously issued certain series of bonds or notes (the "Senior
Lien Indebtedness") secured by and payable from Student Fees or other revenue streams (other
than Hospital Gross Revenues and Medical Service Plan Revenues) which comprise a portion of
General Revenues, and it is intended that each series of the Senior Lien Indebtedness remain
outstanding and continue to be secured, until paid or defeased, by its respective revenue stream
on a senior lien basis to the Notes and other General Revenue indebtedness subsequently
issued, but that no new Senior Lien Indebtedness is to be issued; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary for the Issuer to delegate to each of the Authorized Officers
the power to designate certain Authorized Representatives and Authorized Persons (each as
defined in the Issuance Certificate or Paying Agent Agreement) to undertake certain actions
with respect to the issuance of Notes; and
WHEREAS, the Notes authorized hereby are to finally mature on or before October 1,
2001, and are intended to be replaced by permanent General Revenue financing on or prior
to such date; and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties, and in order to prudently
control and direct expenditures from the University's funds, the Issuer determines it is
28




July Meeting, 1998


necessary and desirable to authorize the issuance of the Notes to provide funds to
temporarily finance and refinance all or part of the costs of the Projects, and to pay certain
costs incurred in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes; and
WHEREAS, in order to be able to market the Notes, it is necessary for the Issuer to
authorize an Authorized Officer to prepare, execute and deliver, on behalf of the Issuer, an
Offering Memorandum (as supplemented from time to time, the "Offering Memorandum")
to be circulated and used in connection with the marketing, sale and delivery of the Notes,
and to take, together with other appropriate officers, agents and representatives of the
Issuer or the University, additional actions necessary to accomplish the sale and delivery of
the Notes, the administration of the commercial paper program of which the Notes are a
part, and the purposes hereof, all within the limitations set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, the financing and refinancing of the Projects will serve proper and
appropriate public purposes; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has full power under its constitutional authority for
supervision of the University, and control and expenditures from the University funds, to
authorize and acquire the Projects, to finance and refinance by the issuance of the Notes the
costs of the Projects and the costs related to the issuance of the Notes, and to pledge the
General Revenues of the University for payment of the Notes and to covenant to pay the
Notes from available investments.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Regents of the University of
Michigan, as follows:
1. The Issuer hereby authorizes the issuance, execution and delivery of the
Notes of the Issuer, in multiple issuances on various dates, to be designated
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN COMMERCIAL PAPER
NOTES, SERIES B, in the aggregate principal amount outstanding from time time to
time as shall be designated by any two Authorized Officers, but not in excess of
$120,000,0000, to be dated as of a date of issuance of each Note, or otherwise as
shall be determined by an Authorized Officer, for the urpose of financing and
refinancing all or part of the Projects (including refun the Prior Bonds and
the Prior Notes), and to pay all or part of the costs incidental to the issuance of
the Notes. The Projects as a whole a whole are hereby determined by the Issuer to
constitute a single governmental purpose of the Issuer. The Notes shall not be
subject to redemption prior to maturity. Each Note shall mature not later than
270 days after its date of issuance, as shall be determined as provided in the
Issuance Certificate and Pa ing Agent Agreement, and all Notes must mature on
or before October 1, 2001. Interest on each Note shall be payable on the maturity
date thereof, at the rate, not in excess of 12% per annum, to be determined as
specified in the Issuance Certificate and Paying Agent Agreement. The Notes
shall be issued in fully registered form, or registere   to bearer, in the
denominations,e shall be subject to transfer and exchange, and shall be executed
and authenticated, all as shall be provided in the Issuance Certificate. The Notes
shall be sold at par through the Dealer selected by an Authorized Officer, as
provided in the Dealer Agreement.
2. The Notes shall be limited and not general obligations of the Issuer
payable from and equally and ratably secured by a lien on General Revenues,
subject only to the senior liens on portions of General Revenues securing the
respective series of Senior Lien Indebtedness (until each respective series of such
Senior Lien Indebtedness is paid or defeased in accordance with its terms), and
moneys from time to time on deposit in the Note Payment Fund created pursuant
to the Issuance Certificate, as provided therein. The Notes shall also be payable
from Available Investments, as provided in the Issuance Certificate. The Issuer
shall covenant in the Issuance Certificate that so long as any of the Notes remain
outstanding, the Issuer will not issue any new series of Senior Lien Indebtedness.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal amount of or
interest on the Notes or any claim based thereon against the State of Michigan,
or, except as provided in the Issuance Certificate, the Issuer, or against any
officer or agent of the Issuer or of the University, as individuals, either directly or
indirectly, nor shall the Notes and interest with respect thereto become a lien on
or be secured by any property, real, personal or mixed of the State of Michigan,
the Issuer, or the University, other than the General Revenues and the moneys
from time to time on deposit in the Note Payment Fund created by the Issuance
Certificate.


29




July Meeting, 1998


3. The right is reserved to issue additional bonds, notes or other obligations
payable from and secured by General Revenues on a parity basis with the Notes
as to the lien on General Revenues, but subject to the prior liens on portions
thereof securing Senior Lien Indebtedness.
4. The Authorized Officers or any of them, are hereby authorized and
directed to select a bank to be Issuing and Paying Agent, and one or more
Dealers, and any two of the Authorized Officers are authorized and directed, in
the name of the Issuer and as its corporate act and deed, to negotiate, execute and
deliver the Issuance Certificate, the Paying Agent Agreement and one or more
Dealer Agreements, substantially in the form previously filed with the Secretary
of the Issuer, but with such changes, not inconsistent with the terms of this
Resolution, as the Authorized Officers executing the same shall approve, which
approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution of the respective
documents.
5. The Authorized Officers are, or any one of them is, hereby authorized
and directed to designate employees or agents of the University to act as
Authorized Representatives with respect to the issuance of Notes, and to
designate Authorized Persons, who may be employees or agents of the University
or employees or agents of the Dealer, to take certain actions with respect to the
issuance of Notes, all as provided in the Issuance Certificate, the Paying Agent
Agreement, or the Dealer Agreement.
6. The Authorized Officers are, or any one of them is, hereby authorized,
empowered and directed, in the name and on behalf of the Issuer, and as its
corporate act and deed, to execute the Notes by manual or facsimile signature and
to deliver the Notes to the purchaser in exchange for the purchase price thereof,
as provided in the Issuance Certificate and the Paying Agent Agreement. The
Notes may be issued in the form of one or more Master Notes, as provided in the
Paying Agent Agreement.
7. The Authorized Officers are, or any one of them is, hereby authorized to
cause to be prepared and circulated the Offering Memorandum with respect to
the Notes, and to update, or cause to be updated the Offering Memorandum,
through supplements or otherwise, as an Authorized Officer shall deem
appropriate, or as may be required by law. Any Dealer is authorized to circulate
and use, in accordance with applicable law, the Offering Memorandum, as the
same may have been updated or supplemented from time to time, in the offering,
sale and delivery of the Notes.
8. The Authorized Officers are, or any one of them is, hereby authorized to
provide for the call for redemption of the Prior Bonds and the redemption or final
payment of the Prior Notes, and to take any and all actions necessary and
appropriate to provide for the payment when due of all amounts with respect to
the Prior Bonds and the Prior Notes, from the proceeds of the Notes or other
available funds of the University.
9. The Authorized Officers, the Secretary, representatives of the
University's General Counsel, and any other appropriate officer of the University
are each hereby authorized to perform all acts and deeds and to execute and
deliver all instruments and documents for and on behalf of the Issuer or the
University required by this Resolution or the documents authorized hereby, or
necessary, expedient and proper in connection with the issuance, sale and
delivery of the Notes, from time to time, all as contemplated hereby or in
connection with subsequent elections, approvals or determinations under the
Issuance Certificate or other documents. Any reference to any specified officer of
the Issuer or the University in this Resolutions shall include any interim officer
occupying such position.
10. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer
in conflict herewith be and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict
exists.
Aerospace Engineering Plasma Research Building Additional Boiler
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved a project to install a new boiler and an


30




July Meeting, 1998


addition to the Pumping Station Building on North Campus, as described in
the Regents Communication.
Arbor Lakes Complex Data Center Facility
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved a project for creation of a new data center
facility within the existing Arbor Lakes Office Complex, as described in the
Regents Communication.
School of Dentistry Kellogg Building Expansion and Renovation
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents that John M.
Olson Company of St. Clair Shores, which had submitted the lowest
responsive bid, had been awarded the construction contract for the Kellogg
Building Expansion and Renovation Project.
Women's Rowing Team Facility New Building
Regent McGowan moved approval of a project for construction of a
Women's Rowing Team Facility on Belleville Lake, as described in the
Regents Communication. Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
Recommendation for Brighton Market Development and Expansion
Regent Newman moved approval of development of the Brighton market
and expansion of the Brighton Health Center project, the long term lease of
the building and property, and the option to purchase, as described in the
Regents Communication. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
University of Michigan Hospitals Helipad Relocation Project
Executive Vice President Omenn gave a brief slide presentation
illustrating the proposed new relocation site for the Hospitals' helipad.
Regent Newman moved approval of the Helipad Relocation Project and site,
as described in the Regents Communication, as well as authorization for the
appointment of an architect and submission of a Certificate of Need
application. Regent McGowan seconded the motion.
Regent Power asked for an explanation of the high cost of this project.
Executive Vice President Kasdin responded that the biggest cost isn't for the
helipad itself, but for the underground tunnel that connects the helipad to
the University Hospital Emergency Department. Regent Power asked
whether other alternatives had been considered. Mr. John Ballew, senior
architect on the project, responded that other locations and alternative
technologies had been considered in an attempt to try to mitigate the effect
of the helicopter odors on the buildings that are a major source of concern
with the current helipad location. It was determined that the only viable
alternative to eliminate the odors from the buildings would be to relocate the
helipad from the top of the Taubman Center. Once that decision was made,
Venturi, Scott Brown and Associates (VSBA) were consulted and a number of
alternative sites were considered. VSBA and hospital officials are in


31




July Meeting, 1998


agreement that the proposed site is the only viable alternative location, both
to solve the air quality problem and to provide a more functional. entry to the
Emergency Room for patients being transported from the helicopters.
Regent Newman pointed out that the proposed site also appears to be much
safer. The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Power made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 Public Act 202 and 1996 Public Act 464, I move that the Board of
Regents meet in closed session on July 16, 1998, in the Regents' Room,
for the purpose of consulting with our attorneys regarding trial or
settlement strategy in connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The Regents met in executive session beginning at 3:00 p.m. and
reconvened in public session at 4:00 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the
topics indicated: Heh Shin Kwak, president of Inteflex Student Council, on
the review of the Inteflex program; Darcy Leach, Paul Eiss, and Sanjiv
Gupta, members of the Graduate Employees Union (GEO), on conditions
affecting graduate student employees; Nadia Kim, Tom Guglielmo, and Niki
Dickerson, graduate students and members of Academics for Affirmative
Action and Social Justice (AAASJ), on affirmative action; and Trent
Thompson and Bram Elias, president and treasurer, respectively, of MSA, on
the 1998-99 General Fund Budget.
1998-99 Ann Arbor General Fund Operating Budget
Regent Deitch moved adoption of the Ann Arbor General Fund
Operating Budget. Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved,
with Regents Deitch, Maynard, McFee, McGowan, Power, and Taylor voting
in favor and Regent Newman opposed.
UM-Ann Arbor Student Fee Rates for FY 1998-99
Regent Deitch moved adoption of the Ann Arbor campus student fee
rates for FY 1998-99. Regent McGowan seconded the motion, and it was
approved, with Regents Deitch, Maynard, McFee, McGowan, Power, and
Taylor voting in favor and Regent Newman opposed.
University of Michigan-Dearborn 1998-99 General Fund Budget
Regent Deitch moved adoption of the University of Michigan-Dearborn
1998-99 General Fund Budget. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it
was approved, with Regents Deitch, Maynard, McFee, McGowan, Power, and
Taylor voting in favor and Regent Newman opposed.


32




July Meeting, 1998


University of Michigan-Dearborn Student Fee Rates for 1998-99
Regent Deitch moved adoption of the University of Michigan-Dearborn
student fee rates for 1998-99. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was
approved, with Regents Deitch, Maynard, McFee, McGowan, Power, and
Taylor voting in favor and Regent Newman opposed.
University of Michigan-Flint 1998-99 General Fund Budget
Regent Deitch moved adoption of the University of Michigan-Flint
1998-99 General Fund Budget. Regent McGowan seconded the motion, and
it was approved, with Regents Deitch, Maynard, McFee, McGowan, Power,
and Taylor voting in favor and Regent Newman opposed.
University of Michigan-Flint Tuition and Fee Rates for 1998-99
Regent Deitch moved adoption of the University of Michigan-Flint
tuition and fee rates for 1998-99. Regent McGowan seconded the motion,
and it was approved, with Regents Deitch, Maynard, McFee, McGowan,
Power, and Taylor voting in favor and Regent Newman opposed.
1998-99 Budgets
Regent Maynard moved approval of the 1998-99 Revenue and
Expenditure Operating Budgets. Regent Deitch seconded the motion, and it
was approved, with Regents Deitch, Maynard, McFee, McGowan, Power, and
Taylor voting in favor and Regent Newman opposed.
Proposed FY 1999 University of Michigan Hospitals and Health
Centers Operating Budget
Regent Deitch moved approval of the FY 1999 University of Michigan
Hospitals and Health Centers Operating Budget. Regent McFee seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
1000 and 1010 Cedar Bend Drive, Ann Arbor
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved offering the properties at 1000 and 1010
Cedar Bend Drive for sale, as described in the Regents Communication.
118 E. Hoover, 126 E. Hoover, and Vacant Parcel
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved purchase of the property at 118 E. Hoover, 126 E.
Hoover, and the vacant parcel located at the northeast corner of Main and
Keech Streets at a price of $2.5 million, as described in the Regents
Communication.
Alternative Asset Investments
Regent Power moved approval of commitment of up to $40.0 million to SZ
Investments, L.L.C., subject to the review of the final documentation by counsel.
Regent Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.


33




July Meeting, 1998


Amendment to Bylaws of M-Care
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved an action taken by the M-Care board of
directors to amend the M-Care bylaws to replace the term "president" with
the term "executive director" throughout those bylaws.
Change in Reporting Lines for the Population Studies Center
Provost Cantor reported that it had been recommended by several
external reviews, and endorsed by the dean of the College of LS&A, the
provost, the director of the Institute for Social Research, and faculty in the
relevant units, that the Population Studies Center become a center within
the Institute for Social Research (ISR).
Regent Deitch moved that the Population Studies Center become a
center within the Institute for Social Research. Regent Newman seconded
the motion. Regent Power noted that the Population Studies Center had
undergone a number of organizational changes during his tenure on the
Board. Provost Cantor commented that this change was initiated by the
Population Studies Center and by ISR, and the prevailing view is that the
move will give the Population Studies Center the type of cross-disciplinary
exposure it needs, thereby enhancing the center's ability to attract grant
funding.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
New Degree Program for the College of Engineering and Computer
Science at University of Michigan-Dearborn (Bachelor of Science in
Engineering (Computer Engineering))
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved a new degree program, "Bachelor of Science
in Engineering (Computer Engineering)," to be offered by the Department of
Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Management Information Systems Concentration within the UMDearborn School of Management's Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Program
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved a new    concentration in management
information systems (MIS) within the existing Bachelor of Business
Administration (BBA) program at the UM-Dearborn School of Management.
Finance Concentration within the UM-Dearborn School of Management's Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Program
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved a new concentration in Finance within the
existing Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) program at the
UM-Dearborn School of Management.


34




July Meeting, 1998


Recommendations for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Newman, and on the
recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board,
the Regents unanimously approved certain specified appointments to medical
staff membership.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 5:30 p.m.
Regents' expenses for June 1998 totaled $1,457.18. The next meeting is
scheduled for September 16 and 17, 1998.
Nancy Cantor
Provost and Executive Vice President
for Academic Affairs


35




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1998


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Wednesday, September 16, 1998
The Regents convened at 4:05 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Interim Co-General Counsel
Barry, Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Vice President Hartford, Executive
Vice President Kasdin, and Executive Vice President Omenn. Vice President
Neidhardt, Chancellor Renick, and Interim Chancellor Schmoll were absent.
Announcement
President Bollinger announced that a sophomore student, Christopher
Giacherio, had been discovered dead in an off-campus apartment that morning.
He noted that the student's father is a professor in the Medical School and his
mother is a teacher at an Ann Arbor elementary school. Vice President Hartford
said that a vigil had been held in the Residential College at noon, and that
personnel are being made available for students to help them deal with the death.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Sumeet Karnik, member of MSA, on
student/Regent relations.
Executive session
Regent Horning then made the following statement:
Pursuant to Section 8(a) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202 and 1996 PA 464, the Board of Regents will now meet in
closed session for the purpose of considering a periodic personnel
evaluation of a person who has requested confidentiality.
The meeting then continued in executive session.
Thursday, September 17, 1998
The Regents met at 9:40 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Interim Co-General Counsel
Barry, Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Vice President Hartford,
Executive Vice President Kasdin, Chancellor Renick, and Interim Chancellor
Schmoll. Executive Vice President Omenn arrived shortly after the start of
the meeting, and Vice President Neidhardt arrived at 10:55 a.m.
Appointment Recommendations
President Bollinger announced that several recommendations for vice
presidential appointments were listed as part of the consent agenda. He noted


37




September Meeting, 1998


that Marvin Krislov, recommended for appointment as vice president and
general counsel, and Cynthia Wilbanks, recommended for appointment as vice
president for government relations, were both present at the meeting.
President Bollinger observed that Mr. Krislov had been selected following
a national search that had yielded an exceptional pool of candidates, and that
Elizabeth Barry, who is currently serving as interim co-general counsel, was
among those candidates. Ms. Barry is being recommended for appointment
as associate vice president and deputy general counsel.
President Bollinger stated that Cynthia Wilbanks, currently serving as
associate vice president for university relations, had been doing an outstanding
job in state government relations, and that in her new role she would assume
the additional responsibilities of federal relations and community relations.
He noted that Lisa Tedesco, his recommendation for vice president and secretary
of the university, is a noted scholar and administrator in the School of Dentistry.
Regent Newman commented to President Bollinger that "you continue
to amaze with the wonderful people that you find to fill these positions, and
that is a terrific credit to you and to the institution." She said that she is
very excited about all of the appointments.
Regent Power said that he shares Regent Newman's enthusiasm about
President Bollinger's appointments and moved approval of the appointment
of Marvin Krislov as vice president and general counsel. Regent McFee
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent Deitch moved approval of the appointment of Cynthia H. Wilbanks
as vice president for government relations. Regent Newman seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent Newman moved approval of the appointment of Lisa A. Tedesco
as vice president and secretary of the university. Regent Power seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent Maynard moved approval of the appointment of Elizabeth Barry
as associate vice president and deputy general counsel. Regent Taylor seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent Power observed that in the past, the University had been
reluctant to create very many positions of vice presidential rank. He asked
President Bollinger to speak about the organizational structure that he is
setting into place, along with his feelings about titles.
President Bollinger responded that when he became president, he saw a
need to enhance the legal services and representation within the University, and
he wanted to symbolize that by elevating the position of general counsel to the
vice presidential level. This is a common status for that position in other
institutions. Creation of the position of associate vice president and deputy
general counsel was done so as to take advantage of the talents and experience of
Elizabeth Barry.
He observed that the title of vice president for university relations had
arisen relatively recently in the University's history, incorporating the former


38




September Meeting, 1998


position of vice president for government relations with the role of media
relations into the position held through May 1998 by Walter Harrison. He
said that in his view, at this point in the life of the institution it is appropriate
to separate those functions into two positions, with the individuals who
perform each set of responsibilities holding the title of vice president.
Regarding the position of secretary of the university, he noted that this
position has always held executive officer rank, so the addition of the title of
vice president to this position involves no change in status. However, the
addition of the title of "vice president" is simply a reflection of modern
sensibilities, to make the title reflect the actual status of the position. He said
that his goal is to create offices that provide an opportunity to have people work
on the things that we think really need to be accomplished at the University. It
has become necessary to have the titles shift somewhat to make that possible.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. The minutes of the July 1998 meeting were submitted for
approval.
Reports.   Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports on
Investment, Plant Extension, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action.
Interim Co-General Counsel Barry submitted the Litigation Report. The
Regents also received the report of Projects Established for the months of
July and August, 1998.
Student Affairs Report. Vice President Hartford reported that the
residence hall move-in had gone extremely well, with superb cooperation and
coordination among the City of Ann Arbor, the Ann Arbor Transit Authority,
the Medical Center complex, and the School of Public Health. She also noted
that in response to urging from the Regents, residence hall crowding has
been dramatically reduced, to the point that the only overflow triples are
those that have been requested by students.
Regent Power observed that this is a good example of a problem having
arisen about which concern had been expressed among the Regents, and Vice
President Hartford having noted the problem and taken corrective action.
This is the mark of a well-managed organization.
Vice President Hartford reviewed some of the other programs that had
been conducted in conjunction with residence hall move-in week. She also
reported that as a result of a grant from the Kellogg Foundation, four
academic units would be incorporating civic engagement through leadership
and community service into specific classes.
Medical Affairs Report. Executive Vice President Omenn noted that
the role of biomedical research is being highlighted around the state. He said
that increases currently being proposed by Congress for the National
Institutes of Health reflect the strong public support for biomedical research.
He noted that in general, the health system is in good shape on all
fronts and reviewed some recent initiatives and actions that had taken place
in the Medical School and Hospitals and Health System.


39




September Meeting, 1998


Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin called attention to the
year-end report for fiscal year 1997-98. She noted that this was another record
year in voluntary support, with a total of $179.5 million having been received.
This represents a 13 percent increase over the previous year. Of particular
note is the $30 million in new commitments made after the end of the
campaign. She also pointed out that 58 percent of the gifts in 1997-98 came
from individual donors, and this percentage has been steadily increasing. This
represents an important trend, as the largest potential for significant growth
in private giving to the University is from individuals.
Vice President Feagin noted that FY 1997-98 was an exceptional year
for several units, including the Medical School, which raised more than $28
million, and the College of Engineering, which raised more than $25 million.
She pointed out that the figures reported for July and August, 1998, are
deceiving because the implementation of M-Pathways has delayed the
crediting of gift receipts.
Vice President Feagin observed that the focus for the coming year will
be on making sure that there is effective staffing and ensuring that the
donors who were responsible for the success of the Campaign for Michigan
are kept connected to the University in meaningful ways.
AARP Andrus Foundation Washington, DC
for research in the Medical School and the Institute of Gerontology........ $199,989
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  7,752
Marjorie O. Alpern, Bloomfield Hills
367 shares of Fannie Mae common stock and a cash gift
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens Conservatory Upgrade Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for WUOM/WVGR.......... 23,095
American Automobile Manufacturers Association, Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute....... 400,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts and the Biophysics Research Division........................... 105,256
American Cancer Society Michigan Division, Inc Lansing
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School............ 5,000
American Chemical Society, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Engineering................................. 5,000
American Football Coaches Association, Waco, Texas
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................... 10,000
American Foundation for Urological Disease, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research and other support in the Medical School...................... 11,333
American Gastroenterological Association, Thorofare, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School....................................   24,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health and in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 538,174
American Israel Education Fund, Troy
for the Bruce Stanley and Stuart Frankel Endowment in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  10,000
American Jewish World Service, New York, New York
for Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts.........................................           7,000
Ameritech, Chicago, Illinois
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 6,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc. Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching  gifts.............................................  5,525
Arthur Andersen LLP Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching  gifts............................................  53,676
Andersen Consulting Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts............................................  55,099


40




September Meeting, 1998


Thomas A. Andersen Estate
for the Thomas A. and Laura J. Andersen Scholarship..................... 37,500
Andrews and McMeel Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Journalists in Residence Program in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate  Studies.............................................  5,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Clinical Programs Endowed Fund in the Law School............... 250,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Edward M. and Ruth B. Gramlich Fund, School of Public Policy..... 100,000
Anonymous Donor
for special exhibitions support in the Museum of Art...................... 20,000
ARCO Foundation, Inc., Los Angeles, California
for employee  matching gifts.............................................  7,360
Ashland, Inc., Ashland, Kentucky
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute.... 7,500
Association Frangois-Xavier Bagnoud, Zug, Switzerland
for the Frangois-Xavier Bagnoud Fellowship and the Franoois-Xavier
Bagnoud International Design Center Fund in the College of Engineering... 439,972
Astra/Merck Group of Merck & Company, Inc., Wayne, Pennsylvania
for research  m  the Medical School......................................  29,020
Astra USA, Inc., Westborough, Massachusetts
for the Division of Allergy Endowed Fellowship in the Medical School......... 6,000
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for employee  matching   gifts.............................................  7,615
Avenir Foundation, Inc., Wheat Ridge, Colorado
for the  Clements Library.............................................  25,000
Larry R. Babcock, Chatham, Ontario, Canada
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Baker Petrolite, Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous
Media in the College of Engineering.....................................  20,000
Bankers Trust Company, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,079
Arthur P. Bartholomew, Jr., Ocean Ridge, Florida
400 shares of Nobel Insurance, Ltd., common stock
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Fund in the School of Business Administration.... 5,250
Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Albuquerque, New Mexico
for scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School..................... 24,000
Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Santa Ana, California
for support in  the Medical School......................................  5,300
Hazel M. Beach Estate
for the Neurology Endowed Professorship in the Medical School............ 164,414
Jacqueline M. Beach, Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society......................................  10,000
Robert N. Beebe Trust, Sun City Center, Florida
for the Marion E. and Robert N. Beebe Endowed Football Scholarship
in the Department of Athletics........................................ 100,000
Bellcore, Morristown, New Jersey
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Fund in
the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts................ 25,985
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Political Science Seminar Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.............15,000
and  the  Arts.........................................................  15,000
Alfred Berkowitz Foundation, Birmingham
for support in the School of Music and for the Children's Art Program
at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................. 30,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
126 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for research in the Medical School and the College of Engineering........... 23,179
Margaret G. Bertsch, La Quinta, California
1,521 shares of various corporate common stock
for research  in the Medical School.....................................  133,006
Gunnar D. Birkerts, Bloomfield Hills
for the Gunnar Birkerts Fund in the Bentley Historical Library............. 25,000
Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Michigan, Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund and for
the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn..... 5,610
Harold and Penny Blumenstein Foundation, Bingham  arms
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment, University Library.... 5,000


41




September Meeting, 1998


Boothman, Herbert, Eller & Yockey, P.C., Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Robert Bosch Company, Reutlingen, Germany
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute.... 7,500
Mildred B. Boynton Estate
for support of the Law  School........................................   5,000
Briarwood Mall Office, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for the C. S. Mott
Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............................. 6,400
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Resident's Education Program and other support, Medical School...... 7,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Morrisville, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School................................   85,000
John T. Byrne Trust
for the William S. Smith Research Fund in the Medical School............. 100,000
Cabletron Systems, Inc., Rochester, New Hampshire
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............. 10,800
Cancer Research Foundation of America, Alexandria, Virginia
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  8,000
John Carver, Brighton
for the Environmental and Global Change Education Fund and the
Matthaei Botanical Gardens, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 9,500
William C. Cassebaum, Ann Arbor
for the Milton G. and Josephine Kendrick Marketing Award Fund in the
School of Business Administration and for the University Musical Society.... 10,290
Harry E. Chesebrough Trust
for support in the College of Engineering............................... 600,000
Chevron Petroleum Technology Company, Concord, California
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous
Media in  the College of Engineering.....................................  25,000
Chevron Products Company, San Ramon, California
for the Experimental and Analytical Geochemistry Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts........................................  5,000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for the Chevron Corporation Fellowship in the School of Business
Administration and for employee matching gifts.......................... 12,800
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  15,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for the support in the School of Business Administration,
for the Schools of Engineering and Management at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, and for other support at the University of Michigan.... 152,500
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the CIGNA Risk Management Program Fund in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  10,000
Citizens, Flint
for W FU M -TV........................................................  7,500
Citizens Bank Matching Gift Program, Flint
for the Flint Banker's Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint........ 7,000
Clorox Company, Oakland, California
for the Clorox Fellowship in the School of Business Administration.......... 10,000
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Group of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education of Women... 7,500
Conoco, Inc., Ponca City, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media
in  the  College of Engineering..........................................  25,000
Eugene Cordes, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Pharmacy.................................. 33,000
Cryolife, Inc., Kennesaw, Georgia
for the MCHC Symposium in the Medical School.......................... 10,000
Cummins Engine Company, Inc., Columbus, Indiana
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Team Projects Fund in the School
of Business Administration and the College of Engineering................. 15,000
Franklin M. Cunard, Clinton Township
100 shares of Schering-Plough Corporation common stock
for the Franklin M. Cunard, Jr., Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering....................... 9,272
Cushman & Wakefield, Inc., New York, New York
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
42




September Meeting, 1998


Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the Medical School.......................................27,125
Cystinosis Foundation, Piedmont, California
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  7,380
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute.... 7,500
Deloitte & Touche Consulting Group, Hermitage, Tennessee
for the C. S. Mott Childen's Hospital Gof Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment,
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund, and
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn... 9,850
Detroit Regional Chamber, Detroit
for the Detroit Compact Award Fund....................................  36,500
Robert F. DiRomualdo, Ann Arbor
315 shares of Borders Group, Inc., common stock
for the University  Musical Society.......................................  9,863
William T. Dobson Fund, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for the Risk Management
and Insurance Scholarship in the School of Business Administration,
for support in the Medical School, and for the Mary Hunter Dobson
Scholarship in the Center for the Education of Women..................... 29,550
Donnelley Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for  W U O M...........................................................  7,500
Dow Agro Sciences, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Models of Sensory and Motor Neuropathies Fund in the School of
Public Health, and for employee matching gifts.......................... 125,800
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for employee matching  gifts............................................  30,754
Herbert H. and Grace A. Dow Foundation, Midland
for the Marshall Symposium Fund...................................... 15,000
Earl-Beth Foundation, St. Clair Shores
for the Business Administration Development Fund at the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn...................................................  7,500
Ernst & Young, Lyndhurst, New Jersey
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Ernst & Young Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching  gifts...........................................  73,082
E. Malcolm Field, Saginaw
for the E. Malcolm Field Research Fellowship in the Medical School......... 50,000
First of America Bank-Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.......................................  5,000
Mrs. Carl H. Fischer, Ann Arbor
600 shares of Comerica, Inc., common stock and
600 shares of Hershey Foods Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Carl H. Fischer Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Carl H. Fischer Endowed Collegiate
Professorship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 100,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health, for the Residential College and
the Center for Chinese Studies in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and for the University Musical Society......................... 296,373
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in the College of Engineering, for the Tauber Manufacturing
Institute Team Projects Fund in the School of Business Administration and
the College of Engineering, for the Millennium Project Fund, and for the
School of Engineering, the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, and the Quality
Research Center at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................. 238,600
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the College of Engineering, for research in the School of
Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and for employee
m atching  gifts.......................................................  17,000
Forest Health Services Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.......................................  8,350
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Stanley D. FrankelEntrepreneurship Fund in the School of
Business Administration and for the Frankel Fellowships in Jewish
Communal Service in the School of Social Work........................... 31,500


43




September Meeting, 1998


Norman and Edna Freehling Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Humanities Institute Director's Graduate Student Fellowship
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 7,500
Melvin Friedland, New York, New York
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 20,000
Frederick W. Gehring, Ann Arbor
450 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Frederick W. and Lois B. Gehring Professorship in Mathematics,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 45,197
Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  31,000
General Dynamics, Falls Church, Virginia
for the James R. Mellor Professorship in the College of Engineering........ 600,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts.26,322
for employee matching  gifts............................................  26,322
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for research in the Medical School and the Transportation Research Institute... 125,217
General Motors Corporation R & D Center, Warren
for support in the College of Engineering................................. 5,000
Genesee Area Focus Council, Inc., Flint
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute... 10,000
Charles H. Gershenson Trust
for the Jessye Norman Master Class Series Fund and the Jessye Norman
Graduate Fellowship in the School of Music.............................. 62,605
Ralph J. Gerson, Bloomfield Hills
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School of
Business Administration...............................................  5,000
Glaxo Wellcome, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School and for employee matching gifts.......... 25,600
Gleason Foundation, Rochester, New York
for research in the Transportation Research Institute...................... 15,000
Martin G. Gold, Dexter
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, for the
University Library, and for WUOM/WVGR............................... 12,828
Graham Foundation, York, Pennsylvania
for the Samuel A. Graham Memorial Fund in the School of Natural
Resources and  Environment...........................................  43,988
Frances Greer, Ann Arbor
for the Frances Greer Scholarship and other support in the School of
Music, for the Institute for Research on Women and Gender and for
the University Musical Society.........................................  12,310
Guardian Industries Corporation, Auburn Hills
10,000 shares of Orbotech, Ltd., common stock
for the William Davidson Institute in the School of Business Administration.... 372,188
Beverly Lannquist Hamilton, Marina del Rev, California
104 shares of Fidelity Magellan mutual fund for the Beverly Lannquist
Hamilton Scholarship and other support in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  11,000
Sheila Ford Hamp, Dearborn
for the  Clem ents Library..............................................  10,000
Steven K. Hamp, Ann Arbor
775 shares of Associates First Capital Corporation common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............. 60,256
Donald C. Hayden Jensen Beach, Florida
875 shares of Royal Dutch Petroleum common stock
for the Wolverine Venture Fund in the School of Business Administration.... 49,273
James E. Hayes, Kenilworth, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
James C. Hays, Atlanta, Georgia
for student aid in the Medical School..................................... 5,000
Hella KG, Hueck & Company, Lippstadt, Germany
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 14,991
John and Rose Herman Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 5,000
Jack D. Highfield, Grand Rapids
400 shares of First Chicago NBD Corporation common stock
for the Jack D. and Marjorie E. Highfield Dean's Merit Scholarship in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 35,775


44




September Meeting, 1998


Hitachi, Ltd., Takasaki-Shi Gunma, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 23,750
Hoechst Marion Roussel, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for support in the Medical School........................................ 6000
Homeland Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Homeland Foundation Fund for the Teaching of Professional
Ethics in the Law School............................................. 250,000
Robert L. Hooker, Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund, School of Business
Administration........................................... 5,000
Hosiden and Philips Display Corporation, Kobe-City, Japan
for research m the College of Engineering................................ 26,835
Hospital & Health Services Credit Union, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............. 10,800
Betty J. Humphry, Hudson, Florida
for support in the School of Education, in memory of Ann F. McAloon........ 15,000
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Kanagawa, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.......... 7,500
Inco Technical Services, Ltd., Mississauga, Ontario, Canada
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 25,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the School of Public Policy................................ 69,000
International and American Associations for Dental Research, Washington, DC
for support in the School of Dentistry................................... 14,400
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............. 10,800
Andrew C. Jacobs, Lincoln, Nebraska
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,000
Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Sol Drachler Professorship in Jewish Communal Service,
School of Social Work............................... 400,000
Johnson Controls, Inc., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for automotive transportation research in the, Transportation
Research Institute................................................ 7,500
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health, the Institute
of Gerontology, and the Survey Research Center in the Institute for
Social Research and for employee matching gifts........................ 1,681,688
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Social Work................................ 220,180
JP Morgan, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School......................................  34,399
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.........................................................  16,000
Kalamazoo Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the F. Conrad Fischer Fund in the School of Business Administration..... 15,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Schools of Education, Information, and Social Work
and for the Center for Political Studies in the Institute for Social Research..... 1,022,361
Harold W. Keopka Estate
for the Class of 1936 Engineers Fund in the College of Engineering.......... 19,101
Mary Kristen Tooze Kern, Portland, Oregon
175 shares of Gillette Company common stock
for instructional support in the Center for Middle Eastern and North
African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 9,816
Helen V. Kew Trust
for support in the Medical School...................................... 262,943
Key Bank, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society....................................... 5,480
KeyCorp, Toledo, Ohio
for the Ann Arbor Flower Show presented by the Matthaei Botanical
Gardens, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 5,000
John E. King, Jr. Trust
for the George W. Roby Research Fund in the Medical School............... 81,578
Leslie Kish, Ann Arbor
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research........... 5,000


45




September Meeting, 1998


Kitch, Drutchas, Wagner & Kenney, P.C., Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............. 5,400
KLS Martin L.P., Jacksonville, Florida
for the Joseph Helman Research Fund in the School of Dentistry............. 8,000
Koito Manufacturing Company, Shimizu-Shi, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Gerald P. Kolb, Alden
100 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 9,003
Ton Koot, Montfoot, Netherlands
for the Isadore Lampe Professorship in the Medical School................. 10,000
William M. Krips, Houston, Texas
for the Krips Endowment in the School of Education....................... 6,000
F. Bruce Kulp, Ann Arbor
70 shares of Associates First Capital Corporation common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics, and
for the University Musical Society.......................................  5,318
Lake Superior Basin Trust
for research in the School of Public Health.............................. 612,040
James L. Learner, Glencoe, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
Legacy Fund of Hamilton County, Indianapolis, Indiana
for support in the Department of Athletics.............................. 250,000
Edward H. Lerchen, Birmingham
200 shares of Rockwell International Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Edward H. Lerchen Donor Pooled Income Fund and other support in
the School of Business Administration...................................  9,625
Albert A. Liao Memorial Fund, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School........................................ 5,000
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  8,750
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Resident's Education Program in the Medical School................. 7,000
Lockheed Martin Corporation, Bethesda, Maryland
for employee  matching  gifts............................................  7,370
London Family Trust
for the Duane London Endowed Scholarship in the School of Education...... 25,000
Gillson Longenbaugh Foundation, Bellaire, Texas
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................ 120,000
LTV Steel Company, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the School of Public Policy................................. 5,000
Shirley W. Ludington Estate
for support in the College of Pharmacy..................................  8,379
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 100,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Social Work................................ 30,000
Managed Resources, Inc., Long Beach, California
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............. 10,800
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for biology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 12,500
Raymond W. Marttila, Portage
142 shares of Northern Trust Company common stock
for support in  the School of Education....................................  9,922
MascoTech, Inc., Fraser
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute.... 5,000
Peter J. Mather, Kalamazoo
2,052 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Mather Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the Schools of Law and Medicine.............................. 121,181
Mazda Distributors Great Lakes, Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund, School of Business Administration.. 5,000
Julian G. McIntosh Estate
13 shares of Tele-Communication TCI common stock and a cash gift
for the Julian and Vera McIntosh Memorial Fund in the School of Music..... 58,483
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Dexter
750 shares of Unisys Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Research in College Teaching and Learning Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for support i the School of Music..... 18,381
46




September Meeting, 1998


Merck & Company, Inc., West Point, Pennsylvania
for support in  the Medical School........................................  5,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School...................................... 51,500
Michigan Eye Bank & Transplantation Center, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School....................................... 9,989
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for the Marshall Symposium and for employee matching gifts................ 5,850
Adele M. Milanowski Estate
for the Nicolaus Copernicus Collegiate Professorship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  30,000
Miller, Canfield, Paddock, and Stone, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society................................... 5,000
Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone, Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  7,500
Marsha and Jeffrey H. Miro Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.... 10,000
Mobil Foundation, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
for the Mobil Scholarship in Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering,
and for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous
Media in the College of Engineering.................................   55,000
Hilda B. Moorhead, Cincinnati, Ohio
142 shares of Exxon Corporation common stock
for the Lucinda Hindsdale Stone Award Fund, University of Michigan-Flint.... 9,998
Helen Moyer, Ann Arbor
for the Ralph Moyer Endowed Dental Scholarship in the School of Dentistry..... 25,000
Alberta Muirhead Trust, Dearborn
for the Honors Program Scholarship in the College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................... 10,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  111,250
Myron J. Nadler, Delray Beach, Florida
4,300 shares of Banc One Corporation common stock
for the Myron J. Nadler Fundin the Law School......................... 240,128
National City Bank, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Emergency Services Gift Fund in the University Hospitals............ 5,000
National Semiconductor, Santa Clara, California
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 50,000
NBD Bank, N.A., Flint
for WFUM-TV........................................................ 5,000
Wencel A. Neumann, Jr., Clemson, South Carolina
3,000 shares of Hubbell, Inc., common stock
for the Ruth Judson Neumann Scholarship in the School of Nursing........ 128,813
Newport News Shipbuilding, Newport News, Virginia
for the Navel Architecture and Marine Engineering Scholarship and
Development Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 5,000
Nippondenso Manufacturing USA, Inc., Battle Creek
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Ronald and Joan Nordgren Charitable Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Ronald P. and Joan M. Nordgren Endowed Research Fund
in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................... 25,000
North American Lighting, Inc., Farmington Hills
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.......... 7,500
Northern Trust Company, Chicago, Illinois
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center and for employee matching gifts........ 6,615
Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School and for special events support
in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................... 26,000
Novellus Systems, Inc., San Jose, California
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 20,000
O'Connor, DeGrazia & Tamm, P.C., Bloomfield Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation, Raritan, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School and for research in the College of Pharmacy.. 13,000
Otis, Farmington, Connecticut
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400


47




September Meeting, 1998


David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for research, School of Natural Resources and Environment, and
for biology and mathematics support, College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts........................................................  127,047
Elysia Pefley Foundation, Livonia
for support in the Medical School.......................................  10,000
Donald E. and Jo Anne Petersen Foundation, Birmingham
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center, for the Mildred Hague
Matthaei Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan, and for the
Rouge River Bird Observatory Fund at the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn...................................................  12,500
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Center for Political Studies in the Institute for Social Research...... 137,000
Pfizer Inc., New York, New York
for support in the Medical School, for the Pfizer Undergraduate
Summer Fellowship in Organic Chemistry in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and for employee matching gifts..................... 19,375
Pharmacia and Upjohn, Inc., Kalamazoo
for research in the Medical School and for chemistry support in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 25,250
Philips International, B.V., Eindhoven, Netherlands
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 14,953
Richard W. Pogue, Cleveland, Ohio
4,400 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Richard W. Pogue Endowment to Support the Study of Business
Law  in the Law  School...............................................  250,572
Laurence J. Pons, Brighton
for support in the Department of Athletics................................ 5,000
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Sadye Harwick Power Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts and for the Marshall Symposium............................ 28,602
PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for employee matching gifts.............................................  7,925
Presser Foundation, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania
for the Presser Graduate Scholarship in the School of Music................. 5,000
Prince Corporation, Holland
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................   7,500
Procter & Gamble Fund Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 50,000
Pryor Foundation, Bloomfield, Connecticut
for the Humanities Institute Director's Graduate Student Fellowship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................... 10,000
G. Robina Quale, Albion
for the G. Robina Quale Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the Leslie A. Quale and Gladys D. Quale Endowed Scholarship..... 10,000
Radiological Society of North America R&E, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.......................................  14,166
Al Renfrew Fund, Ann Arbor
for the Al Renfrew Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.............. 33,436
Research Genetics, Inc., Huntsville, Alabama
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  6,000
RJ Management LLC, Twinsburg, Ohio
for the Jamieson Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics......... 35,000
P. Anthony Ridder, Miami, Florida
482 shares of Knight-Ridder, Inc., common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 24,928
John O. Robertson, Clayton, Georgia
for the John O. Robertson Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Ruth Lobdell Scholarship................... 20,000
Roche Laboratories, Nutley New Jersey
for support in  the Medical School........................................  5,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 22,538
Sterling L. Ross, Jr., Mill Valley, California
251 shares of Archer-Daniels-Midland Company common stock
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,020


48




September Meeting, 1998


Glenn A. Rossman, Fort Wayne, Indiana
100 shares of Mellon Bank Corporation common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics, the School of
Business Administration, and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and for the University of Michigan Club of Fort
W ayne  Scholarship....................................................  6,869
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for the Research Center for Group Dynamics in the Institute for
Social Research, for the Population Studies Center in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the Institute for
Research on Women and Gender in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies.................................... 183,610
John W. Sanguinetti, Los Altos Hills, California
2,000 shares of Synopsys, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 90,875
Schering Sales Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and
for support in  the Medical School........................................  9,500
John B. Schwemm, Downers Grove, Illinois
1,213 shares of R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company common stock
for the John Butler Schwemm Fund in the Law School..................... 55,457
Sci Healthcare Group, Inc., Toledo, Ohio
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Claude E. Shannon Trust
for support in the College of Engineering................................  10,000
Steven C. Shields, Ann Arbor
for the Al Renfrew Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............... 5,000
Paul E. Siegel Estate
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts.........................................................  68,968
Siemens Automotive Corporation, Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute....... 7,500
Mrs. Willard E. Slater, Boca Raton, Florida
800 shares of Fortune Brands, Inc., and a cash gift
for the Luella Slater Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the Willard E. Slater Class of 1926 Memorial Fund....... 50,475
Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Marietta, Georgia
for research  in the Medical School......................................  33,840
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education and at the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn..................................................  614,100
SPX Foundation, Muskegon
for employee matching gifts............................................... 15,160
St. Joseph Mercy Hospital Medical Staff, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund and for WUOM/WVGR....... 7,916
Standard Register, Dayton, Ohio
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Stanley Electric Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Detty Stark, Sarasota, Florida
2,500 shares of various common corporate stock
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................  157,353
John M. Stevens, Largo, Florida
4,000 shares of Union Pacific Corporation common stock
for the John and Ellen M. Stevens Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the University of Michigan..................... 173,125
Stimsonite Corporation, Niles, Illinois
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.......... 7,500
Mary L. Stoll Estate
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund......................... 100,000
Robert G. Strachan, New York, New York
400 shares of John H. Harland Company and
100 shares of Deluxe Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration and for the Robert G.
Strachan Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts.........................................................  10,650
Stryker Corporation, Kalamazoo
for the Homer H. Stryker Orthopaedic Lecture Fund in the Medical School.... 6,500
49




September Meeting, 1998


Jerome P. Subar, Grand Rapids
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the
U niversity  Library.....................................................  8,333
Sullivan, Ward, Bone, Tyler & Asher, P.C., Southfield
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Sunrise Medical HHG, Inc., Longmont, Colorado
for wheelchair restraints research in the Transportation Research Institute..... 7,500
James D. Supance, Tiffin, Ohio
100 shares of AT&T Corporation common stock,
8 shares NCR Corporation mutual fund, and a cash gift
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 6,652
Edward Surovell Company/Realtors, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society and for WUOM/WVGR................... 5,797
T A P Holdings, Deerfield, Illinois
for research in the Medical School....................................... 8,900
Shelby M. Tauber Fund of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Beatrice and Barney Keywell Graduate Student Support Fund
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 10,000
William B. Taylor Trust
for the William B. Taylor Endowment in the Medical School................ 10,000
Thomas Foundation, Farmington Hills
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  25,000
John and Daniel Tishman Fund, New York, New York
for the John L. Tishman Fellowship in the College of Engineering.......... 100,000
TMP Associates, Inc., Architects, Engineers, Planner,Bloomfield Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Sinibaldo Tozzi, Grosse Pointe
250 shares of Dell Computer Corporation for research in the Medical School.... 21,305
Transplantation Society of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medica l School....................................... 10,000
Trimas Corporation, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for the University
Musical Society...................................................... 20,000
TRW Automotive Worldwide Sector, Cleveland, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute..................................................... 7,500
United Audit Systems, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............. 10,800
University of Michigan Credit Union, Ann Arbor
for support  in  the School of Music.......................................  5,000
USX Foundation, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for employee  matching  gifts............................................  20,166
Valeo Automotive, Inc., Livonia
for automotive transportation and human factors research in the
Transportation  Research  Institute......................................  22,493
Clara D. Van Auken Trust
for the H. Van Auken Fund and the William W. Bishop, Jr., Research
Professorship in the Law School................................ 150,000
Van Vlack Family Charitable Fund, Portage
for the Van Vlack Family Fund in the College of Engineering............... 61,600
Varsity Ford, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for research in the
Medical School, and for the Comprehensive Cancer Center and the
University  Musical Society............................................  112,650
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School and for employee matching gifts.......... 28,757
Washington University, St. Louis Missouri
for the Consortium for Graduate Study in Management Fund in the
School of Business Administration..................................... 100,089
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics, for support in
the Medical School, and for the Comprehensive Cancer Center and
the University Hospitals................................. 69,627
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the National Pollution Prevention Center and the Transition for the
Center for Sustainable Systems Fund in the School of Natural Resources
and  Environm ent....................................................  32,500


50




September Meeting, 1998


West Michigan Industrial Sales Company, Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................... 10,000
Whirlpool Financial Corporation, Benton Harbor
for the Industrial Design Projects Fund in the School of Art and Design....... 5,000
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the Medical School...................................... 60,619
Robert J. White, Los Angeles California
for support of the Law School........................................... 5,000
Sonya Wicha, Ann Arbor
9,752 shares of various corporate common stock,
222 shares of Dean Witter American Value mutual fund, and a cash gift
for the Wicha Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit
of the Comprehensive Cancer Center...................................  202,376
Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering, Washington, DC
for support of the Law School........................................... 5,000
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the School of Public Policy and for the Mellon Fellowships
in the Humanities, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.......... 39,722
Frank B. Womer, Ann Arbor
for the Frank B. Womer Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the School of Education............................... 25,000
Woodbridge Group, Troy
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute.... 7,000
World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland
for research in the School of Public Health............................... 68,780
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Scholarship in the Law School........................... 50,000
Elizabeth Halfert Youngman
for the Elizabeth Youngman Graduate Student Aid Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  98,330
Bruce Zenkel, White Plains, New York
for the Golf Course Commemorative Fund in the Department of Athletics..... 5,000
lien Shaw Agress, Sleepy Hollow, New York
for the Vivian R. Shaw Lecture Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts..........................................................   6,000
Jay and Maryanne Alix Foundation
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 14,200
American Express Foundation, New York, New York
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  6,150
Anonymous Donor
for special exhibitions support in the Museum of Art and for WUOM/WVGR.... 20,200
Autism Society of America, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School...................................... 15,000
Nancy Azzam, Golden Valley, Minnesota
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Baker & McKenzie, Brussels, Belgium
for the Baker & McKenzie Law Student Assistance Program Fund in the
Law School........................................................... 5,000
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Henry A. Bergstrom Child Welfare Law Program Fund in the Law
School..............................................................  50,000
Margaret G. Bertsch, Grand Rapids
1,150 shares of Warner-Lambert Company common stock
for the Margaret Bertsch Research Fund in the Medical School...........  81,506
Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Guido A. Binda Exhibit and Lecture Fund in the College of
Architecture and Urban Planning....................................... 20,000
Boeing Commercial Airplane Group, Seattle, Washington
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Team Projects Fund in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering........... 15,000
BP America, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.......... 5,000
David A. Brandon Foundation, Plymouth
for golf course restoration and other support in the Department of Athletics....20,500
Robert W. Browne, Ada
for the Orthodontic Alumni Clinic Fund in the School of Dentistry......... 300,000
Barbara E. Bryant, Ann Arbor
for  Cam p  M ichigania...................................................  5,000


51




September Meeting, 1998


Linda P. Chapman, Traverse City
for the Clements Library, in memory of Morton M. Peterson................. 5,000
Karl E. Christen, Milford
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................... 10,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for the 1994 Summer Engineering Academy Program Fund and other
support in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts...... 114,141
Lawrence G. Clayton, Vero Beach, Florida
140 shares of E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 8,632
Ralph G. Conger, Detroit
900 shares of Huntington Bancshares, Inc., common stock
for the Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration and for the Pauline M. Conger Scholarship................. 30,881
Ronnie M. Cresswell, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society...................................... 15,000
Peter C. Dendrinos, Frankfort
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Everett R. Doehr, San Diego, California
210 shares of Dayton-Hudson Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,461
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for the Marketing Faculty Research Fund in the School of Business
Administration, for research and other support in the Colleges of
Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts, for the National
Pollution Prevention Center in the School of Natural Resources and
Environment, and for career planning and placement support.............. 156,000
Electronic Data Systems, Plano, Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
Engle Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sylvia "Duffy" Engle Graduate Student Fellowship in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................  37,000
Bruce A. Featherstone, Denver, Colorado
134 shares of Daisytek International Corporation common stock and
85 shares of Motorola, Inc., common stock
for support of the Law  School...........................................  7,277
Janette Ferrantino, Ann Arbor
500 shares of Colgate-Palmolive Company common stock and
450 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Janette Ferrantino Pediatric Hematology Research Fund in the
M edical School.......................................................  88,741
Chuck Fisher East Lansing
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................... 11,000
Paul Foltyn, Birmingham
for the Paul and Leah Foltyn Fund in the Medical School.................. 10,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 15,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn... 500,000
Frederick W. Gehring, Ann Arbor
980 shares of various corporate common stock and
2,867 shares of T. Row Price New Horizons mutual fund
for the Frederick W. and Lois B. Gehring Professorship in Mathematics,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 130,229
General Cable Corporation, Highland Heights, Kentucky
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering........................... 20,000
General Motors Corporation, Canada Group, Warren
for the Chevrolet Collegiate Scholarship..................................  9,000
Gilmour Fund, Detroit
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000
Richard L. Hirsch Foundation, New York, New York
for the building fund and other support in the Division of Kinesiology........ 13,250
James and Lynelle Holden Fund, Troy
for the Child Advocacy Law Clinic in the Law School and for the
John L. Kemink Professorship in the Medical School..................... 400,000
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for the Pediatric Dentistry Program in the School of Dentistry............. 150,250


52




September Meeting, 1998


Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for electrical and computer engineering fellowships in the College
of Engineering.......................................................  41,800
International Paper, Charlotte, North Carolina
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering........... 5,000
John P. Junge, Rancho Santa Fe, California
1,100 shares of Symix Systems, Inc., common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics............................... 28,256
Kalamazoo Foundation, Kalamazoo
for support in  the School of Music.......................................  5,000
Robert C. Leland, Jr. Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Department of Athletics.............................. 100,000
Eli Lilly an Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Mark Roth Memorial Fund in the Medical School.................... 5,000
Litvak Foundation, Troy
for the Alan T. Ackerman Endowment in the Law School................... 50,000
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for history of art support, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 35,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 100,000
Donald H. Malloure, Beverly Hills
3,000 shares of Fannie Mae common stock
for support in the College of Engineering............................... 201,281
Walter B. McLellan, Ann Arbor
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens Conservatory Upgrade Fund, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................  10,000
McNamara Scholarship Fund, Grosse Pointe Woods
for scholarships and fellowships at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 5,500
MedImmune, Inc., Gathierburg, Maryland
for support in  the Medical School........................................  5,000
Meritor Automotive, Inc., Troy
for support in the College of Engineering................................. 5,000
Mobil Foundation, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
for employee matching gifts..........................................  7,650
Mor-Tech International, Inc., New Orleans, Louisiana
for the Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Loyal Crew Fund in
the  College  of Engineering..............................................  5,000
Joe D. Morris, Ann Arbor
75 shares of Comerica, Inc., common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,194
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
275 shares of Schering-Plough Corporation common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics............................... 28,566
Munn Foundation, Inc., Steamboat Springs, Colorado
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment and other
support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................. 87,500
Myron J. Nadler, Delray Beach, Florida
for the Myron J. Nadler Fund in the Law School.......................... 11,101
NanoLogic, Inc., Walnut Creek, California
for research in the College of Engineering................................  10,000
Nike, Inc., Beaverton, Oregon
for the Nike Athletic Scholarship for Women and the Nike Women's
Basketball Scholarship in the Department of Athletics and for the
Chris Webber/Nike Foundation Scholarship.............................. 52,500
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Westmont, Illinois
for the Center for Excellence Fund in the School of Dentistry............... 25,000
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration........10,000
Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Pharmacy, Inc., Collegeville, Pennsylvania
for special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.............. 5,000
John O. Robertson, Clayton, Georgia
for the John O. Robertson Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Ruth Lobdell Endowed Scholarship.......... 100,000
Rosenstiel Foundation, New York, New York
for support of the Law  School..........................................  10,000
Helen S. Schaefer, Tucson, Arizona
210 shares of General Electric Company common stock and a cash gift
for the Helen Schwarz Schaefer Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for the Nichols Arboretum Visitor Center......... 20,352
53




September Meeting, 1998


Peter A. Schweitzer, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Schweitzer Endowment in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts...........................................................  8,000
Merton and Beverly Segal Philanthropic Fund, Boca Raton, Florida
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business
Adm inistration........................................................  5,000
Herbert Sloan, Jr., Trust
for special exhibitions support in the Museum of Art....................... 5,000
Penelope A. Stamps, Key Largo, Florida
for support in the School of Art and Design.............................. 25,000
Steelcase Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Program for the Study of Complex Systems Computer Lab Gift
Fund and for employee matching gifts................................... 28,400
Jay H. Stubenhaus, Fairfield, Connecticut
300 shares of Flag Investors Communications mutual fund
for the University Musical Society.......................................  7,428
Joseph F. Tetlak, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 5,000
Trenton Firefighters Local 2701,Trenton
for the Trauma Burn Center Firefighter's Fund in the Medical School....... 29,100
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 25,000
Union Texas Petroleum, Houston, Texas
for the Krips Endowment in the School of Education....................... 6,000
University of Michigan Dugout Club, Ann Arbor
for baseball support in the Department of Athletics........................ 11,900
Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation, Camarillo, California
for the Bipolar Transistors Fund in the College of Engineering.............. 20,000
Wal-Mart Foundation, Bentonville, Arizona
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.......... 5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Pharmacy............................ 49,450
University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Washington, DC
for the University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Scholarship......... 10,000
Waypointe Foundation, Holland
for support in the College of Engineering................................. 5,000
Matilda R. Wilson Fund, Detroit
for the Institute for Human Adjustment in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate  Studies............................................  10,000
Asa G. Yancey, Sr., Atlanta, Georgia
166 shares of BellSouth Corporation common stock
for the Carolyn D. and Asa G. Yancey, Sr., M.D., Fund, Medical School....... 11,023
Allied Signal, Inc., Morristown, New Jersey
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Team Projects Fund in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering........... 15,000
Anonymous Donor
2,700 shares of General Motors Corporation common stock
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint.......................... 198,113
Ruth H. Baker, Wilmington, Delaware
for the Frank H. Baker Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.... 25,000
Henry D. Baldwin Estate
for support of the Law  School..........................................  10,000
Clara M. Blackerby, Punta Gorda, Florida
for the Philip E. and Clara M. Blackerby Lectureship Fund in the School
of Public Health.........................................          10,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Mental Health Research Institute..................... 100,000
Robert W. Browne, Ada
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 20,000
Budres Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Budres Foundation Scholarship in the School of Music............... 6,000
Doris N. Caddell, Ann Arbor
1,979 shares of Merrill Lynch Global mutual fund common stock,
two shares of Muniyield Fund, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Robert Caddell Memorial Scholarship, College of Engineering,
and for the University Productions Gift Fund in the School of Music......... 29,846
CaP Cure, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................ 150,000


54




September Meeting, 1998


Darl F. Caris Trust
for the Darl F. and Lorene O. Caris Dean's Scholarship in the Colleges of
Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 5,087
Ron and Betsy Cayo Fund, Clifton Park, New York
for support of the Law  School.........................................  5,000
Chase Manhattan Bank Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts                                             5,950
for employee  m atching   ifts.............................................  5,950
Citicorp Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration.................... 33,500
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 11,400
Cole-Belin Education Foundation, Des Moines, Iowa
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 50,000
Joyce and Lester Coleman Charitable Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support of the Law School................................... 5,000
Comerica, Inc., Detroit
for employee matching gifts.........................................   5,004
Carl S. Conlon Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 13,582
Louise E. Cuyler Estate
for the Louise E. Cuyler Prize Fund in Musicology, School of Music.......... 49,706
Albert C. Dames Estate
for the Albert C. Dames Memorial Scholarship............................. 5,000
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for ice hockey support and the Dekers Club Hockey Scholarship in the
Department of Athletics...............................................  14,719
Dermik Laboratories, Inc., Collegeville, Pennsylvania
for the William B. Taylor Endowment in the Medical School................. 5,000
Diamond Technology Partners, Chicago, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 38,000
Evangeline L. Dumesnil Estate
Tor the Maurice H. and Evangeline L. Dumesnil Scholarship in the School
of Music............................................................  80,719
Irving A. Fader, Farmington Hills
for the Lester Fader Memorial Endowment in the College of Architecture
and  Urban  Planning..................................................  12,500
Federal-Mogul Corporation, Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering.................................  5,000
Flow Ezy Filters Inc. Ann Arbor
for the Milie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund, Medical School......... 5,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Krimm Symposium in the College of Engineering and for the
Center for Engineering Education and Practice at the Urniversity of
M ichigan-Dearborn...................................................  24,600
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters at the University
of M ichigan-Dearborn................................................  250,000
Forest Health Services Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 40,000
Sam and Jean Frankel Fund of the Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in Rabbinic Literature,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 20,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Stanley D. Frankel Entrepreneurship Fund in the School
of Business Administration and for the Frankel Fellowships in
Jewish Communal Service in the School of Social Work.................... 31,500
Freeson Company, Ltd., Wanchai, Hong Kong
for the S.M. Wu Symposium in the College of Engineering.................. 45,000
Fremont Area Foundation, Fremont
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  20,675
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for the General Electric Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate  Studies....................................................  125,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Team Projects Fund in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering........... 15,000


55




September Meeting, 1998


Dudley J. Godfrey, Jr. 1996 Trust
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School....................... 10,000
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, University of Michigan-Dearborn,
and for employee matching gifts.........................................  5,250
Graham Foundation, York, Pennsylvania
for the Graham Endowment Fund in Manufacturing in the College of
Engineering.........................................................  10,000
Jacob W. Haas, Ann Arbor
for the Jacob W. Haas Scholarship in the Department of Athletics........... 40,000
Marian E. Harris, Lakewood, New Jersey
for the James E. Harris Chemistry Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts........................................  5,000
Health Care & Retirement Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for W UOM /W VGR....................................................  12,428
Hearst Corporation, Charlotte, North Carolina
for the Ann Arbor Flower Show presented by the Matthaei Botanical
Gardens, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................... 15,000
James K. Herbert Foundation, Lindsay, California
for program support in the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  25,000
Hosiden and Philips Display Corporation, Kobe-City, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering.............................. 26,825
Frederick G. L. Huetwell Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 44,783
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for the Program in Pediatric Dentistry Fund in the School of Dentistry....... 41,250
James W. Hyde Estate
for the Class of 1904 Law Scholarship in the Law School................... 11,494
Ideation, Inc., Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics................... 5,000
Instrumentation Laboratory, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the Meyerhoff Research Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.........................................................  25,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Team Projects Fund in the School
of Business Administration and the College of Engineering................. 30,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for electrical and computer science engineering fellowships and the
Intel Foundation Graduate Fellowship in the College of Engineering and
for employee matching gifts...........................................  125,300
International Business Machines, Endicott, New York
for electrical and computer science engineering fellowships in the
College  of Engineering................................................  40,352
ITT Automotive Group, Auburn Hills
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Team Projects Fund in the School
of Business Administration and the College of Engineering................. 15,000
Harold R. Johnson, Ann Arbor
200 shares of Maytag Corporation common stock
for the building fund in the School of Social Work.......................... 8,906
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health.................. 92,833
Katherine M. Kalbfleisch, South Yarmouth, Massachusetts
for the Class of 1931 Engineers Scholarship in the College of Engineering,
in memory of Winfred Kalbfleisch.......................................  10,000
Douglas S. Kelbaugh, Ann Arbor
50 shares of Cisco Systems, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning............... 5,134
Helen Dyar King Fund of the Arizona Community Foundation Phoenix, Arizona
for the Helen Dyar King Stearns Collection Endowment, School of Music........ 65,000
KLS Martin, L.P., Jacksonville, Florida
for continuing education support and the Joseph Helman Research Fund
in  the  School of Dentistry..............................................  10,000
Liberace Foundation for the Performing Arts, Las Vegas, Nevada
for support in the School of Music....................................  10,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the W. R. Roush Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts and for support in the Medical School............................... 20,100


56




September Meeting, 1998


Walter Lorenz Surgical Instruments, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida
for the Joseph Helman Research Fund in the School of Dentistry............ 13,333
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 100,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education.................................  305,000
Olive Madigan, Wilmette, Illinois
for scholarships in the Law School, in memory of Edward P. Madigan........ 25,000
Tammy Matioli, Howell
for the Herbert H. Lee Scholarship...................................... 16,324
C. Blake McDowell, Jr., Estate
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  16,192
McGraw Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Julian G. Mclntosh Estate
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,681
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.......... 590,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for the Chemical Engineering Undergraduate Scholarship in the College
of Engineering.................................................... 10,000
Michigan Fire Sprinkler Contractors, St. Clair Shores
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund, Medical School.... 30,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for the Michigan Union Development Fund.............................. 25,000
Mitsubishi Electric Research Laboratories, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts
for research in the College of Engineering................................  30,000
Monsanto Fund, St. Louis, Missouri
for employee matching gifts..................................... 6,070
Violet Gay Most Estate
for student financial aid........................................... 120,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for research in the School of Business Administration...................... 11,600
Music Study Club of Metropolitan Detroit, Royal Oak
for the Jeanette X. Miller Fund in the School of Music, in memory of
Jonathan  P. Miller...................................................  10,000
National Starch and Chemical Foundation, Bridgewater, New Jersey
for the Macromolecular Research Center in the College of Engineering........ 6,500
Arthur S. Nicholas, Barrington, Illinois
2,000 shares of Master Service Company common stock and
850 shares of Old Kent Financial common stock
for support in the College of Engineering.............................. 97,050
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Westmont, Illinois
for the Center for Excellence Fund in the School of Dentistry............... 20,000
Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for employee matching  gifts............................................  16,395
Wilbur K. Pierpont, Ann Arbor
for the  Clements Library...............................................  5,000
Porter Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Burke E. Porter Foundation Scholarship in the College of
Engineering and for WUOM/WVGR..................................... 10,500
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Second World Workshop in Oral Medicine Fund, School of Dentistry.... 104,067
M. Jean Rich Estate
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering and
for the Bentley Historical Library........................................  8,000
Marquerite Roll Estate
for the Lyle C. Roll Memorial Fund in the Medical School................. 382,021
Alan I. Rothenberg, Los Angeles, California
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,000
Rouge Steel Company, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of
Michigan-Dearborn.................................                 20,000
John A. Russell, Hershey, Pennsylvania
for the Health Management and Policy Gift Fund, School of Public Health..... 5,000
Margery H. Ruth Trust
for the J. Griswold and Margery H. Ruth Endowment, the Ruth Summer
Research Award Fund, and the Ruth Research Fellow Fund, Medical School.... 100,000


57




September Meeting, 1998


Millie Schembechler Memorial Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School.... 220,000
Frances B. Schneider, Lansing
for the Russell L. and Frances B. Schneider Charitable Remainder Unitrust
Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Russell L. and Frances B. Schneider
Student Merit Award Endowment...................................... 30,000
Peter A. Schroeder, East Lansing
for the Chris Schroeder Graduate Scholarship and other support in the
School of Music...............................................  5,000
Donald R. Shepherd Rancho Santa Fe, California
4,000 shares of Bay State Gas Company common stock
for the Marching Band Fund in the School of Music.................... 155,125
Richard D. Snyder, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for support in the Schools
of Business Administration, Information, and Law and the Colleges of
Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the C. S. Mott
Children's Hospital Gift Fund..........................................  2000
K.P. Sogoian Manufacturing Company, Royal Oak
for the Glaucoma Research and Development Fund in the Medical School..... 25,000
Mary C. and Perry F. Spencer Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the MSTP Scholarship Assistance Fund in the Medical School........... 10,000
John F. Stone Trust
for the John F. Stone Cancer Research and Scholarship Fund in the
Medical School....................................................... 12,600
Helen M. Taylor, Ann Arbor
for support in the W.K. Kellogg Eye Center................. 5,000
Textron Automotive Exteriors, Inc., Troy
for the building fund in the School of Engineering, the University
of Michigan-Dearborn...........................................    25,000
Time, Inc., New York, New York
for the Karsten Prager Fund for International Reporting in the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, in memory of
Karsten Prager....................................................... 5,000
Time Warner, Inc., New York, New York
for employee matching gifts..........................................  5,400
Transplantation Society of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School.............................30,000
Trenton Corporation, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 30,000
George R. Troost, Palm City, lorida
175 shares of Wachovia Corporation common stock
for the Paton AccountingCenter in the School of Business Administration.. 15,039
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice at the University
of Michigan-Dearborn........................................        60,000
Stefan F. Tucker, Washington, DC
1,435 shares of BB&T Corporation common stock
for the Stefan and Marilyn Tucker Scholarship in the Law School.......... 102,333
U. S. Environmental Protection Agency, Las Vegas, Nevada
for scholarships in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning.......... 11,000
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts............................................. 6,901
Clara D. Van Auken Trust
for the H. Van Auken Dean's Fund in the Law School.................. 30,445
Harvey A. Wagner Dearborn
231 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Harvey A. and Eleanor M. Wagner Fellowship in the College of
Engineering and for support in the School of Education................ 6,692
Walbridge Aldinger Company, Detroit
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.... 20,000
Charles R. Walgreen, Deerfield, Illinois
for the Cecil and Sue Miskel Fund in the School of Education............. 20,000
Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Fund, New York, New York
for the University Musical Society.....................................  152,430
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Pharmacy, for the 16th Biennial
Conference on ChemicalEducation Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and for the University Musical Society............... 37,000


58




September Meeting, 1998


Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the Warner-Lambert/Parke Davis Fellowships and Professorships
in the Medical School and the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for support in the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate  Studies.............................................  742,000
MaliVai 0. Washington, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 5,000
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for support in the Schools of Dentistry and Medicine, for the Comprehensive
Cancer Center and the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund, and
for the Communicative Disorders Clinic in the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate  Studies...................................................  10,320
Theresa Ting Woo Estate
for support in  the Medical School......................................  150,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Gloria and Gerald D. Abrams Ann Arbor
a Turkish carpet of Herkey type for the Museum of Art
David W. Bean, West Bloomfield
fibers, metals, equipment, and supplies for the School of Art and Design jewelry and
metalsmithing departments
Alfred Berkowitz, Birmingham
23 pieces of Baccarat Crystal for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Berkowitz Gallery
Flora M. Burt, Chelsea
three lithographs for the Clements Library
Frederick P. Currier, San Francisco, California
a photographic collection and other related items for the Clements Library
John R. Curtin, Bloomfield Hills
eight Bonsai plants for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens
EDS, Troy
three Dell OptiPlex computers, two HP Laserjet Printers, and a Toshiba photocopier
for the University of Michigan-Flint Cooperative Education and Career Services Center
General Motors R & D Center, Warren
a YAG laser with electronic narrowing for the Department of Mechanical Engineering
and Applied Mechanics
Hall Engineering, Novi
a Hewlett-Packard Draft Plotter Pro and a Houston Instruments Hi Plot Plotter for
the University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Engineering
Intel Corporation, Hillsborot Oregon
106 Pentium workstations and one quad Pentium server for the Department of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
International Business Machines Corporation, Armonk, New York
computer equipment for the Information Technology Division
Benjamin Lev, West Bloomfield
various books for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Mardigian Library
Daisy Lovain, Garden City
a photo album and related items for the Clements Library
Ross E. Lucke, Perrysburg, Ohio
seven glass paperweights for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Berkowitz Gallery
PHD, Inc., Fort Wayne
clamps, grippers, and kit for the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics
Meryl D. Place, Ann Arbor
a Japanese Imari vase for the Museum of Art
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
39 volumes and nine binders of items illustrating South and Southeast Asia art and
architecture for the history of art department
Alfred S. Sussman, Ann Arbor
a glass sculpture by Jon Wolfe for the Museum of Art
Susan B. Ullrich, Ann Arbor
93 pieces of African art for the Museum of Art
WFYI Television, Indianapolis, Indiana
a Microtime ACT I control panel for WFUM-TV
Whirlpool Financial Corporation, Benton Harbor
three Whirlpool refrigerators for the School of Art and Design
Clarence Wolf
a collection of 24 books related to various aspects of American History
Paul L. Stewart, Ann Arbor
an Apple color printer with related accessories
59




September Meeting, 1998


Flora M. Burt, Chelsea
a 1774 manuscript commission appointing Thomas Williams as justice in Detroit for the
Clements Library
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
computer equipment for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
Microsoft software for the Solar Car Team
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
82 binders illustrating Champa and Cambodian sculpture for the history of art
department
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:


Ann Arbor Welding Supply, Ypsilanti
Animalia Gallery, Saugatuck
John Arthos, Ann Arbor
George R. Bingham, Dearborn
Boise Cascade Office Products, Warren
Joseph Cepuran, Plymouth
Antranig Chalabian, Southfield
Simon L. Cook, Plymouth
James H. Cross, Glen Ellyn, Illinois
Beverly J. Dildine, Wheaton, Illinois
Lovi Z. Edwards, Flushing
John W. Etsweiler III, Ann Arbor
Mrs. Zvart Gevorkyan,
Long Island, New York
Grob, Inc., Grafton, Wisconsin
Elton D. Higgs, Dearborn
IBM Corporation, Research Triangle
Park, North Carolina
Paul Ison, Santa Ana, California
Gloria Seving Jadwin, Ann Arbor
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
David K. Maxfield, Ann Arbor
David C. Michener, Ann Arbor
Robert K. Moore, Linden
Harold C. Noffz, Northville


Gerald E. Ottenbreit, Jr., Southgate
Diran Papazian, Southfield
Play It Again Sports, Ann Arbor
Beverly I. Post, Swartz Creek
Ann Schultz, Dearborn
Singer Safety Company, Chicago, Illinois
Smith Equipment, Watertown,
South Dakota
Spears Fire and Safety Services, Ann Arbor
Tap Magic, Division of Steco Corporation,
Little Rock, Arkansas
Max Terian, Livonia
Tim Todish, Grand Rapids
Torrence Sound, Inc., Temperance
Kenneth B. West, Flint
Edward Davidson, Ann Arbor
Paul G. Streby, Ann Arbor
Lisa Bartlett, Ann Arbor
Kenneth F. Baumann, Milan
Susan A. DeeWaard, Bolingbrook, Illinois
Carmen Otero, Ann Arbor
Robert C. J. Tuttle, Milford
Anahid Ugurlayan,
Jackson Heights, New York


M-Pathways. Regent Power requested that a discussion about the
implementation of M-Pathways be held at the next meeting. Executive Vice
President Kasdin said that he would arrange such a discussion.
Personnel Actions.       Provost Cantor called    attention  to  the
appointments of Beverly Ulrich as director of the Division of Kinesiology and
Lucy Waskell as professor of anesthesiology.       She also   noted the
reappointments of Dean Hinshaw in the School of Nursing and Dean
Lehman in the Law School, and the extension of the appointment of Paul
Boylan as vice provost for the arts.
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that Mr. Leo Heatley, the
director of public safety and security, would be retiring as of March 31, 1999.
NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Cho, Kathleen R., M.D., Associate Professor of Pathology, Medical School
Krishna, Aradhna, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Marketing, School of Business Administration
Noll, Douglas C., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering


60




September Meeting, 1998


Taylor, Jeremy M. G., Ph.D. Professor of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, August 1, 1998
Thomason, Richmond H., Ph.D., Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, and Professor of
Philosophy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, College of Engineering,
three year term, January 1, 1999
Ulrich, Beverly D., Ph.D., Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, and Director, Division of
Kinesiology, five year term, January 1, 1999
Waskell, Lucy A., M.D., Ph.D., Professor of Anesthesiology, Medical School
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicate
Frost, Carolyn O., Associate Dean, School of Information four year-one month term
Gillespie, Carolyn M. Chair, Department of Theatre, UM-Flint College of Arts and Science,
one year term, July 1, 1998
Gluck Peter R., Chair, Department of Political Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, three year term, July 1, 1998
Helmuth, John A., Chair, Department of Accounting and Finance, UM-Dearborn School of
Management, three year term, July 1, 1999
Hinshaw Ada Sue, Dean, School of Nursing, five year term, July 1, 1999
Kunkel, Steven L Associate Dean for Interdisciplinary Programs and Initiatives, Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies, one year term
Lehman Jeffrey S., Dean, Law School, five year term, July 1, 1999
Olson, GPary M. Associate Dean, School of Information, four year term, October 1, 1998
Perry, Valener A., Assistant Dean for Student Services, College of Pharmacy, five year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Alexander, Lois, Chair, Department of Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, three
year term, July 1, 1998
Armstrong, Thomas J., from Professor of Industrial Health, with tenure, to Professor of
Industrial Health, without tenure, School of Public Health, and from Professor of
Industrial and Operations Engineering, without tenure, to Professor of Industrial and
Operations Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering; also appointed Professor
o Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering
Hansen, Kristina, Chair, Department of Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, three year term, July 1, 1998
Kumar, Kamalesh, Acting Chair, Department of Management Studies, UM-Dearborn School
of Management, ten month term
Larson, Kerry C., Senior Associate Dean for Academic Programs and Initiatives, Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies, four year term
Levine, Simon P., Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering
Meares, Rienry O., Assistant Dean, School of Education, two year term, August 1, 1998
Palincsar, Annemarie S., Associate Dean, School of Education, two year-one month term,
August 1, 1998
Periard,Mary E., Interim Dean, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Pintrich, Paul R., Associate Dean, School of Education, two year term
Pietrykowski, Bruce A., Assistant Dean, UM-Flint College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
three year term
Swanson, Joel A., from Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, to
Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, Medical School
Thomas, Charles B., Jr., Chair, Department of Sociology/Anthropology/Criminal Justice,
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, three year term, July 1, 1998
Waissi, Gary, R., Acting Dean, UM-Dearborn School of Management, ten month term
Watkins, Bruce A., Interim Director, Division of Kinesiology, four month term
Wigston, David L., Acting Dean, Graduate Programs and Research, UM-Flint, August 1, 1998
Wolfe, Robert A., Acting Chair, Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, nine
month term
Wu, Lung-Chiang, Chair, Department of Computer Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, three year term, July 1, 1998


61




September Meeting, 1998


LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Reimann, Mathias W., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, scholarly activity leave
extended
Wintroub, A. Michael, Assistant Professor of History, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave extended
ESTABLISHING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing Professorships
Dow Professorship in Public Health, School of Public Health, September 1, 1998
Sol Drachler Professorship in Jewish Communal Service, School of Social Work, two to five
year renewable term, July 1, 2000
Establishing Academic Administrative Position
Associate Dean of Students, Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs, October 1, 1998
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointments to Professorships
Crow, Thomas R., Theodore Roosevelt Professor of Ecosystem Management, October 1, 1998 -June 30, 2000
Delbanco, Nicholas F., Robert Frost Collegiate Professor of English Language and Literature,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five year term, September 1, 1998
Gross, Samuel R., Thomas G. and Mabel Long Professor of Law, Law School, five year term,
September 1, 1998
Lee, John C., Interim Director, Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project, Office of the Vice
President for Research, August 1, 1998
MacKinnon, Catharine A., Elizabeth A. Long Professor of Law, Law School, five year term,
September 1, 1998
Miller William I., Thomas G. Long Professor of Law, Law School, five year term,
September 1, 1998
O'Donnell, Matthew, Jerry W. and Carol L. Levin Professor of Engineering, College of
Engineering, five year term, September 1, 1998
Richardson, Rudy J., Dow Professor of Toxicology, School of Public Health, five year term,
October 1, 1998
Rosenberg, William G., Alfred G. Meyer Collegiate Professor of History, five year term,
September 1, 1998
Reappointments to Professorships
Kerr, Philip, the Claribel Baird Halstead Professor, School of Music, three year term,
September 1, 1998
Other Transactions
Barry, Elizabeth M., from Interim Co-General Counsel to Associate Vice President and
Deputy General Counsel, Office of the Vice President and General Counsel,
November 2, 1998
Boylan Paul C., reappointed Vice Provost for the Arts, Office of the Provost and Executive
Vice President for Academic Affairs, two year term, July 1, 1998
Brett, Teresa G., Associate Dean of Students, Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs,
October 1, 1998
Keeney, Wendy S., Interim Assistant Dean for Development and External Relations, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998
Krislov, Marvin Vice President and General Counsel, Office of the President, November 2, 1998
Spencer, Theodore L., reappointed Director of Undergraduate Admissions, Office of the
Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs, August 1, 1998


62




September Meeting, 1998


Tedesco, Lisa A., from Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Dentistry, to Vice
President and Secretary of the University, Office of the President, October 1, 1998
Tirado, Mildred C., Associate Dean of Students, Office of the Vice President for Student
Affairs, October 1, 1998
Wilbanks, Cynthia H., from Associate Vice President for University Relations, Office of the
Vice President for University Relations, to Vice President for Government Relations,
Office of the President, September 18, 1998
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Pryor, Cecil A., alumni member, reappointed July 1, 1998-June 30, 2001
Clements Library Associates Board of Governors
OCTOBER 1, 1998-SEPTEMBER 30, 1999
Dance William H.          Kingsley, Thomas      Shapiro, Harold T.
Diedrich, Duane N.        Klancnik, James M.    Thompson, Bradley L. II
Finkenstaedt, William C., Jr. Lowenhaupt, Charles.  Thurber, Cleveland, Jr.
Hatcher, Anne             Mason, Philip P.      Upton, David
Hayes, Walter             Pohrt, Richard A.     van den Bosch, Elizabeth
Heydon, Peter N.          Price, Jacob M.       Wheeler, John D.
Hoyt, Ruth B.             Schoff, Joanna        Winkelman, Margaret
Hurley, William L.        Schoonhoven, Anne M.
Kennedy, Sally            Seger, Mary I.
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Stanton, Domna C., September 1-December 31, 1998, vice John Knott, on sabbatical leave
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Shirley, George I., July 1, 1998-June 30, 2001, vice Judith 0. Becker, term expired
Van Leer, Bram, July 1, 1998-June 30, 2001, vice Nancy E. Reame, term exired
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee
Barry, Anita K., July 1, 1998-June 30, 2001, vice Harry J. D'Souza, term expired
Faires, Nora H., retroactive, January 1-June 30, 1998, vice Doug E. Miller, appointed
Assistant Provost
Kollman, Judith J., retroactive, January 1-April 30, 1998, vice Harry J. D'Souza, sabbatical
leave extended
Zeff, Jacqueline L., July 1, 1998-June 30, 2001, vice Nora H. Faires, term expired
UM-Flint Channel 28 Community Advisory Board
JUNE 1, 1998-MAY 31, 1999  JUNE 1, 1998-MAY 31, 2000  JUNE 1, 1998-MAY 31, 2001
Bettendorf, James B.     Berger, Michael              Bryson, Tom
Hamadym, Jack            Davlantes, Alexander G.      Driskell, Lew
Hinterman, Carol         Flores, Chris               Hanflik, Nancy
Niewenhuis, Jan          Melet, Michael               Mansour, Anthony
Stanley, Rita            Monkaba, Richard            Kelly, Dianna
Strong, Mary L.          Piper, Karen                Sherrin, Karen
Turcke, Mary             Silverman, Ronald           Tyler, Nancy
Terwilliger, Leathea         West, Karen
UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services Executive Committee
Blakely, Everett J., July 1, 1998-June 30, 2000, new appointment
Towsley, Ann E., July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999, new appointment
Webb, Nancy C., July 1, 1998-June 30, 2000, new appointment
Woestehoff, Sue A., July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999, new appointment
UM-Flint School of Management Executive Committee
Moreland, Keith A., July 1, 1998-June 30, 2000, vice Fataneh Taghaboni-Dutta, term expired
Raman, Kalyan, July 1, 1998-June 30, 2000, vice John D. Marquardt, term expired


63




September Meeting, 1998


Personnel reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001, unless otherwise indicated
Adam, Miriam E., M.A., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1- August 31, 1998
Ahmad, Amjad Z., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30, 2000
Albert, Daniel M., B.A., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering,
September 1, 1998- May 31, 1999
Ameri, Afshin, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 1998- June 30, 1999
Anand, Jaideep, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Corporate Strategy, School of Business
Administration
Arroyo, Jossianna, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Asplin, Brent R., M.D  Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Bailey, Joseph F., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures,
July 1-August 31, 1998
Bain, Robert B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 2002
Baker, James B. M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Beck, Larry W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Bee, Sheila, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 2000
Benamou, Catherine L., Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures,
Assistant Professor of Fistant Professor of American Culture,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31 2001
Berrios-Torres, Sandra I., M.D., Clinical Instructor  in Surgery, Medical School,
October 1, 1998-September 30, 1999
Bisognano, John D., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Blumner, Jacob S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences
Borum, Michael C., M. Arch., Assistant Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning,
College of Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2002
Boyd, Charles M., M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Brennan, Patrick J., M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
July 1, 1998- June 30, 2000
Brodie, Juliet M., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, October 1, 1998 -May 31, 2003
Bromberg, Kenneth W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Brown, Christina L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Marketing, School of Business
Administration
Brown, Pamela I., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School, August 1, 1998-July 31, 2001
Callahan, Timothy K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, an the Arts
Carolin, Kathryn A., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Carpenter, Daniel P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-Mav 31, 1999
Carter, David S., B.S.E., Lecturer in Information, School of Information, September 1, 1998 -August 31, 1999
Chavous, Tabbye M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Childress, Anita G., M.A., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1- August 31, 1998
Christopher, Anne T., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
Medical School, August 31, 1998-August 30, 1999
Collins, Kathleen L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
August 1, 1998- July 31, 1999


64




September Meeting, 1998


Craig, Kathryn A., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Damour, Lisa K., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Davis, Elizabeth A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 2002
Dawson, Laura A., M.D., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
de Albaladejo Galus, Claudia I., M.A., Lecturer II in Spanish Literature, Residential College,
College of Literature Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
de Ferrantl, Hugh B. Z., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Music (Musicology), School of Music,
and Assistant Professor of Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Delay, Jeanine A., M.A., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, September 1, 1998 -May 31, 2000
Dewyer, Rodney L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 1998-June 30, 2000
DiGiovanni, Robert B., Ph.D., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Dimendberg, Edward, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures,
Assistant Professor of Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Assistant Professor of Architecture, College of Architecture and Urban
Planning
Dixon, TravisL., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Communication Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Duvernoy, Claire S., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Eisenman, David J., M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Ensing, Gregory J., M.D., Clinical Associate Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School, August 1, 1998-July 31, 2000
Erickson, Laurel M., Ph.D., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering,
July 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Feinberg, Fred M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Marketing, School of Business Administration
Ferry, Elizabeth E., M.A., Lecturer II in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Fischer, Phillippe, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Florence, Timothy D., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Fluent, Thomas E., M.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, August 1, 1998-July 31, 1999
Gach, Martha H., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Biology, Residential College, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Gee, Gilbert C., B.A., Lecturer in Health Care, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies September 1, 1998-May 31, 2002
Gerdes, David W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Ghezzi, Elisa M., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Giannobile, William V., D.D.S., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
July 1, 1998-August 31, 2001
Haghighat, Shaghayegy H., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, Medical School,
July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Harris, Lisa H., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Hawn, Mary T., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1-December 31, 1998
He, Zhong, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences,
College of Engineering, July 1, 1998-May 31, 2001
Herring, Gioia M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
Medical School, August 1, 1998-July 31, 1999
Hershkowitz, Debra, D. Phil.., Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Hickenbottom, Susan L., M.D., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Hoeffner, Ellen G., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Radiology, Medical School, September 1, 1998 -August 31, 1999
Holter, Mark C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work
Hornbuckle, Andrea C., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School, August 1, 1998-July 31, 1999
Hunt, Alan J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering


65




September Meeting, 1998


Jacobson, Matthew E., M.F.A., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, September 1, 1998 -April 30, 1999
Jonsson, Mattias, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Kahler, Shelly L., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, September 1, 1998 -August 31, 1999
Kales, Helen C., M.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Kaller, Eileen L., M.A., Lecturer in Mathematics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Kaplan, Mariana J., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Kardia, Sharon R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health,
September 1, 1998- May 31, 2002
Keller, Evan T., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Comparative Medicine and Assistant Professor
of Pathology, Medical School, August 1, 1998-July 31 1999
Kim, Julee, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Kim, Angela W., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, July 7, 1998-July 6, 1999
King, Jeffrey C., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Kollack-Walker Sara S., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Komolpis, Ruangrat, D.D.S., Lecturer in Orthodontics and Pediatric Dentistry, School of
Dentistry, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Krakowiak, Peter A., D.M.D., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Krebs Angela S., M.S.M.A., Lecturer in Mathematics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Kurdak, Cagliyan, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Kwa, Hian, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Ladabaum, Uri, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
LeBel, Joseph S., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Lederman, Robert J., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Lee, Laura W., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical
School, August 1, 1998-July 31, 1999
Lee, Jason H., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Leighton, Ian K., M.A., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 1998
Li, Jianming, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Linetsky, Vadim, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering,
College of Engineering
Lionberger, Robert A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, College of
Engineering
Lu, Biao, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Finance, School of Business Administration
Macura, Natasa, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Maker, Axmaira H., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1- August 31, 1998
Marshall, David L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, August 1, 1998-July 31, 2000
Martinossi, Alain E., Ph.D., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Mason, Gloria J., Ed.D., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and
July 1-August 31, 1998
McAuslan, Pamela A., M.A., Lecturer in Psychology, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, September 1-April 30, 1998
McDowell, Sharon K., M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical
School, September 1, 1998-August 31, 1999
McEnnerney, Dennis J., Ph.D., Lecturer III in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Mehta, Rajendra H., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 2001
Michael, Mariam, B.Ch., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 1998- August 31, 2001


66




September Meeting, 1998


Michaud, Gregory F., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Miller Cathleen L., Ph.D., Lecturer in Accounting, UM-Flint School of Management,
September 1, 1998- May 31, 1999
Mitchell, Michele, Ph.D., Instructor in History and Instructor in Afroamerican and African
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Murphy, Terrance P., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, August 1, 1998-July 31, 1999
Murray, Kendalyn J., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, Medical School,
June 8, 1998-August 31, 1999
Musick, Marc A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1998
Myers. Larry, M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Nadasdy, Paul E., M.A., Lecturer II in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Nadkarni, Jeanne S., B.A., Lecturer I in English, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1- August 31, 1998
Nagar, Venkatesh K., M.S., Lecturer in Accounting, School of Business Administration
Nallamothu, Brahmajee K., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 1998 -June 29, 1999
Neacy, Kathleen A., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Neal, Charles R., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Nelson, Marcia M., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Newman, Andrew E., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1998-August 31, 1999
Noble, Brian D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
College of Engineering, July 1, 1998-May 31 2001
Nolen-Hoeksema, Richard C., Ph.D., Lecturer in Civil Engineering and Environmental
Engineering, College of Engineering, September 1, 1998-August 31, 1999
Opipari, Anthony, M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Opipari, Lisa C., Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School, September 1, 1998-August 31, 1999
Orlandi, Richard R., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical
School, July 6, 1998-July 5, 1999
Oswald, Gilbert T. II, M.A., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Parrish, Susan S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Paulino, Augusto F., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pathology, Medical School,
July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Penner-Hahn, Joan D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Corporate Strategy, School of Business
Administration
Perez, Alejandro, M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
July 13, 1998-July 12, 1999
Phipps, Maureen G., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30 1999
Pollock, David A., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, July 7, 1998-July 6, 1999
Price, Jessica, Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy,
August 10, 1998-June 30, 1999
Rajagopalan, Sanjay, M.B.B.S., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
August 1, 1998- July 31, 1999
Rastalsky, Hartmut M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Razdan, Sanjay, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Reed, Frank A., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Renne, Elisha R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anthropology and Assistant Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Richardson, Caroline R., M.D., Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, August 17, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Robinson, E. Ian Ph.D., Lecturer III in Political Science, Residential College, and Lecturer
III in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Rochelle, Marion, License, Lecturer II in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Art, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Rodgers, Phillip E., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School,
August 17, 1998-August 31, 1999
67




September Meeting, 1998


Rubin, Mark A., M.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology and Assistant Professor of Surgery,
Medical School, September 1, 1998-August 31, 1999
Sanders, Jerry D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Schaffer, Natasha V., B.A., Lecturer I in International Studies Residential College, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Schumacher, Eric H., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Sharma Pramod K., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical
School, July 13, 1998-July 12, 1999
Shier, Janice, Pharm.D., Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
August 1, 1998- July 1, 1999
Siegmund, Stefanie B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History and Judaic Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Simmons Julie E., Assistant Professor of Statistics, School of Business Administration
Sisson, Thomas H., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 1998 -June 29, 1999
Smith, Howard G., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, Medical School, August 1, 1998 -July 31, 1999
Speights, Steven E., M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
July 1, 1998-June 30 1999
Stack, Austin G., M.B.B.Ch., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Steyer, Terrence E., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Suarez, Lucia M., B.A., Assistant Professor of Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Swaniker, Fresca C., M.B.Ch.B., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Swisher, Stephen A., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Tempest, Snejana J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Russian Pedagogy, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Tichenor, Paul K., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
August 10, 1998-August 9, 2000
Tindall, Shauna, Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School, September 1, 1998-August 31, 1999
Tomori, Oladapo T., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, Medical School, June 4, 1998 -June 3, 1999
Tsai, Wan C., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
August 1, 1998- July 31, 1999
Velez, Lourdes, M.D., Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, August 1, 1998 -July 31, 1999
Weineck, Silke-Maria, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Westwalewicz, Piotr, M.A., Lecturer II in Russian and Polish Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Wierba, Elizabeth E., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Wilke, Charles M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Biology, College of Literature Science, and the Arts
Willard, Margaret, Ph.D., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Wooldridge, Margaret S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics, College of Engineering
Worch, Eric A., M.A., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Wu, Guojun, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Finance, School of Business Administration
Wysocki, Peter D., M.S., Lecturer in Accounting, School of Business Administration
Yoon, Carolyn Y., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Marketing, School of Business Administration
Zheng, Lu, B.A., Lecturer in Finance, School of Business Administration, September 1, 1998 -May 31, 2002
CANCELLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENT OF
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Perry, Raymond S., B.M.E., Lecturer in Computer and Information Systems, School of
Business Administration (previously approved as July 1, 1998-June 30, 2001)


68




September Meeting, 1998


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001, unless otherwise indicated
Benki Jose R., from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Linguistics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2000
Countryman, Matthew J., from Lecturer II in History to Assistant Professor of History and
from Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies, to Assistant Professor of
American Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Davis, Alice E., from Lecturer to.Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing
Fakhouri, Hani I., from Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Sociology/Anthropology/Criminal Justice, to Professor of Anthropology, with tenure,
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, July 1, 1998
Forman, Glenn M., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, Medical School, July 1, 1998-August 31, 1999
Ghosh, Mrinal, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Business Administration, School of
Business Administration
Hawn, Mary T., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School,
August 1, 1998-July 31, 1999
Heidebrink, Judith L., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Neurology, Medical
School, July 1, 1998- August 31, 1999
Magee, John C., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School,
August 1, 1998-July 31, 1999
Maixner, Daniel F., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, Medical School,
July 1, 1998- June 30, 1999
Muriel, Ana, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Business Administration, School of
Business Administration
Pipe, Steven W., M.D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30 1999
Rosen David S., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor II of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School, August 1, 1998-July 31, 1999
Von Moltke, Johannes F., from Instructor in Germanic Languages and Literatures to
Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures and from Instructor in
Film and Video Studies to Assistant Professor of Film and Video Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998- January 1, 2001
Yaman, Peter, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Professor II of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry, August 1, 1998-July 31, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Bohr, David F., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Burling, Robbins, Professor Emeritus of Linguistics and Professor Emeritus of Anthropology,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Dekker, Eugene E., Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School,
January 1, 1998-December 3, 1999
Edwards, Alfred L., Professor Emeritus of Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Fortner Richard W., Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Management, UM-Flint
School of Management, September 1-December 31, 1998
Gans, Carl, Professor Emeritus of Zoology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Graves, Helen M., Associate Professor Emerita of Political Science, UM-Dearborn College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, May 1-December 31, 1998
Gunn, Sondra M., Assistant Professor Emerita of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
September 1, 1998-Augst 31, 1999
Jacquez John A., Professor Emeritus of Physiology Medical School, and Professor Emeritus
of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, March 1, 1998-February 28, 1999
Krachenberg, A. R. Professor Emeritus of Management, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
July 1-December 31, 1998
Lindenauer, S. Martin, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999


69




September Meeting, 1998


Livingstone, Frank B., Professor Emeritus of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Lorey, Robert E., Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Medzihradsky, Fedor, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry and Professor Emeritus of
Pharmacology, Medical School, April 15, 1998-April 14, 1999
Oxender, Dale L., Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Pastalan, Leon A., Professor Emeritus of Architecture, College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Sloan, Herbert, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Tien, Tseng-Ying, Professor Emeritus of Materials Engineering, College of Engineering,
June 1, 1998- May 31, 1999
Weikart, Phyllis S., Associate Professor Emerita of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology,
May 1-August 31, 1998
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Adriaens Peter, Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 3, 1999
Abriola, Linda M., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Bayou, MohamecE., Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of
Management, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1999
Bell, Betty L., Assistant Professor of English, Women's Studies, and American Culture, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, extended sick leave, September 23-December 31, 1998
Berridge, Kent C., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 1998, and sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1999
Brewer, George J., Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, and Professor of Internal
Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough, July 1, 1998-June 30, 2001
Carpenter, Daniel P., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, scholarly activity leave
Carr, Robert I., Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Dahm, Werner J. A., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Das, Sunil K., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough,
July 1, 1998- June 30, 1999
Driscoll James F., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Endelman, Todd M., William Haber Professor of Modern Jewish History and Professor of
History with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 1998, and sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Faller, Kathleen C., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Feldman, Martha S., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Associate Professor of Public Policy, without
tenure, School of Public Policy, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1998
Fellin, Phillip A., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, retirement
furlough (phased), January 1-December 31, 1999
Fornell, Claes G., Donald C. Cook Professor of Business Administration and Professor
of Marketing, with tenure, School of Business Administration, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1999
Fowler, Gary W., George Willis Pack Professor of Forestry and Professor of Biometry,
with tenure, School of Natural Resources and Environment, retirement furlough,
January 1-December 31 1999
Fries, Brant E., Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of Public
Health, sabbatical leave
Fuller, A. Oveta, Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, Medical
School, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1998-February 28, 1999
Gilchrist Brian E., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, and Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences,
without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave


70




September Meeting, 1998


Goldstein, Richard A., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1998
Gombosi, Tamas I., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, and
Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Gray, Donald H., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, retirement furlough (phased), January I, 1999-Ma 31, 2000
Holden, Sally, Associate Professor of Dental Hygiene, with tenure, School of Dentistry,
retirement furlough, September 1 1998-August 31, 1999
Huber, John D., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, wit ollege of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, outside teaching leave
Huntley, Hugh E., Associate Professor of iechanical Engineering, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Ingersoll-Dayton, Be,, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work,
sabbatical leave
Johnson, Michael D., D. Maynard Phelps Collegiate Professor of Business Administration
and Professor of Marketing, with tenure, School of Business Administration, sabbatical
leave, September 1- December 31, 1998
Joyce, James M., Assistant Professor of Philosohy, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Juster, Susan M., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, scholarly activity leave
Kacen, Jacqueline J., Assistant Professor of Marketing, UM-Dearborn School of
Management, outside teaching leave, September 1, 1998-April 30 1999
Katz, Steven J., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, and Assistant
Professor of Health Management and Policy, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave,
July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Kinder, Donald R., Philip E. Converse Collegiate Professor, Professor of Political Science,
with tenure and Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave
Kleinman, Kent F., Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Koenen, Ludwig, Herbert C. Youtie Distinguished University Professor of Papyrology,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough,
September 1-December 31, 1998
Lanen, William N., Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, School of Business
Administration, sabbatical leave
Lansing, John S., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources
and Environment, outside teaching leave
Levine, Daniel H., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998, and duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 1999
Levine, Steven P., Professor of Industrial Health, with tenure, School of Public Health,
extended sick leave
Lubeck, Sally A. Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education,
sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 1999
Makin, Michael, Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Maxim, Bruce R., Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
McCauley, Laurie K., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1998-February 28, 1999
Menge, Alan C., Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without tenure, Medical
School, retirement furlough, July 1-December 31,1998
Merte, Herman, Jr., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
retirement furlough
Montoya, Maria E., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1998
Moore, Thomas E., Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Curator of Insects, Museum of
Zoology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September
1-December 31, 1998, and retirement furlough, January 1-May 31, 1999
Myers, Philip, Associate Professor of Zoology, with tenure, and Associate Curator, Museum
of Zoology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 1999
Olson, Charles E., Jr., Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, retirement furlough,
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Paulson, William R., Professor of French, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 1999


71




September Meeting, 1998


Penner-Hahn, James E., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave
Platz, Stephanie S., Alex Manoogian Assistant Professor of Modern Armenian History and
Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, January 1-May 31 1999
Pollack, Henry N., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbaticalleave
Poonam, Arora, Assistant Professor of English, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Porter, Brian A., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31 1999
Potter, David S., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of Greek and Latin, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Prasad, Gopal, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave
Ramaswamy, Sumathi, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Ramsay, Theodore K., Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Reaves, Natalie D. Assistant Professor of Economics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, outside teaching leave, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Reuter-Lorenz, Patricia A., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Rogers, W. Leslie Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, and
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
retirement furlough (phased), June 1, 1998-May 31, 2000
Rosenberg, William G. Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1999
Rosenblatt, Dorrie E., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, extended
sick leave, February 1, 1998-October 31, 1998
Rowan, Brian P., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1999
Schultz, William W., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Siedel, George J, III, Williamson Family Professor of Business Administration and Professor
of Business Law, History, and Communication, with tenure, School of Business
Administration, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Simmons, Milagros S., Associate Professor of Environmental Chemistry, with tenure, School
of Public Health, extended sick leave September 22, 1998-May 31, 1999
Sinopoli, Carla M., Associate Professor of Antiropology, with tenure, and Associate Curator,
Museum of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity
leave
Smith, Frederic N., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, retirement
furlough, August 1, 1998-July 31, 1999
Stembridge, John R., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Toman, Jindrich, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave
Trepanier-Street, Mary L., Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of
Education, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 1999
Triantafyllidis, Nicolas, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, scholarly activity leave, October 1-December 31, 1998
Twomey, Michael, Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1999
Velleman, J. David, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, scholarly activity leave
Walton, Hanes, Jr., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998, and duty off campus,
January 1-Ma 31, 1999
West, Patrick C., Samuel T. Dana Associate Professor of Outdoor Recreation, with tenure,
School of Natural Resources and Environment, sabbatical leave
Wilkes, James O., Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
retirement furlough (phased), January 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Wintroub, A. Michael, Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave
Wyszewianski, Leon, Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure,
School of Public Health, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Yang, Wei-Hsuin, Professor of Applied Mechanics, with tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
72




September Meeting, 1998


Young, Martin R., Assistant Professor of Statistics and Management Science, School of
Business Administration, research leave
Zhang, Yi, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School
of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1999
CANCELLATIONS OF
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Ball, Arnetha F., Associate Professor of Education with tenure, School of Education,
September 1, 1998- May 31, 1999, sabbatical leave canceled
Drewnowski, Adam, Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, with tenure, School
of Public Health, Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, and Professor of Psychology, without tenure, Medical School,
September 1, 1998-December 31, 1998, sabbatica leave canceled
Egger, Rebecca M., Assistant Professor of English, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998, duty off campus canceled
Whatley, Warren C., Professor of Economics and Afroamerican and African Studies, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999,
personal leave canceled
Yeung, Bernard Y., Associate Professor of International Business, with tenure, School of
Business Administration, September 1,998-May 31, 199, personal leave canceled
CORRECTIONS TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Anderson-Levitt, Kathryn M., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College
of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
(previously reported as duty off campus)
Andonyadis, Nephelie M., Assistant Professor of Theatre and Drama, School of Music,
personal leave, January 1-December 31, 1998 (previously reported as personal leave,
January 1-May 31, 1998
Briggs, Dale E., Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
retirement furlough (phased), January 1, 1998-May 31, 1999 (previously reported as
January 1-May 31, 1998)
Darwall, Stephen L., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998, and scholarly activity leave,
January 1-May 31, 1999 (previously reported as sabbatical leave, September 1, 1998 -May 31, 1999)
Douglas, Susan J., Catherine Neafie Kellogg Professor of Communication and Professor of
Communication, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly
activity leave, September 1-December 31, 1998 (previously reported as outside teaching
leave)
Tandon, Rajiv, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, July 15, 1998- January 15, 1999 (previously reported as sabbatical leave,
June 16-December 15, 1998)
Taylor, John E., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
retirement furlough (phased), September 1, 1997-May 31, 1999 (previously reported as
May 12, 1997- December 31, 1998)
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Deceased
Knudsvig, Glenn M., Professor of Latin, with tenure, College of Literature, and the Arts,
July 24, 1998
Stephens, Sharon K., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature, and the
Arts, and Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, June 17 1998
Thum, Reinhard H., Professor of German, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
July 26, 1998


73




September Meeting, 1998


Discharged
Lubitz, Deborah S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, Medical School, May 31, 1998
Resigned
An, Lawrence C., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School June 30, 1998
Applegate Amy L., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Brannen, Miary Y., Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management and International Business, School of Business Administration,
August 31, 1998
Brucker, Eric, Dean, School of Management and Professor of Economics and Finance, with
tenure, UM-Dearborn School of Management, August 31, 1998
Chawszczewski, David J., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, August 31, 1998
Christensen, Mary C., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, and the Arts, June 30, 1998
Csorgo, Zsuzsanna B., Lecturer in Dermatology, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Daughtery, Douglas R., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, June 30, 1998
Demetriades, Donald B., Lecturer I in Philosophy, Inteflex, College of Literature, and the Arts,
May 31, 1997
Desmond, Robert M., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, UM-Flint College of
Arts and Sciences, June 30, 1998
Dickinson, Lawrence D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 31, 1998
Douglas, Sue A., Lecturer in Dermatology, Medical School, June 30 1998
Driscoll, Marcia S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dermatology, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Edge, Marion J., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 17, 1998
Elmer, Lawrence W., Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Epstein, Terrie, Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, May 31, 1998
Garcia, Sergio Alvarez, Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, and the Arts, June 30, 1998
Goodin, Donna M. Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, and the Arts, May 31, 1998
Grant, Robert J., Clinical Assistant Professor IIof Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Guillery, Edward N., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and
Assistant Professor of Physiology, Medical School, July 31, 1998
Gutstein, Howard B., Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, Medical School, July 31, 1998
Johnson, Joann, Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, Medical School, May 30 1998
Kelling, Mary A., Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, May 31, 1998
Kintanar, Esperanzna B., Lecturer in Pathology, Medical School, August 14, 1998
Koomey, John M., Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure,
Medical School, July 31, 1998
Ladika, Joseph, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Lin, Wendy, Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 31, 1998
Machiorlatti, Jennifer A., Assistant Professor of Communication, UM-Flint College of Arts
and Sciences, June 30, 1998
Majumdar, Sumit K., Assistant Professor of Corporate Strategy, School of Business
Administration, August 31, 1998
McDonald, Marie T., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 31, 1998
Muchmore, James A., Lecturer in Education, School of Education, August 31, 1998
Patton, Sharon F., Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, Associate Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies, without tenure, and Director, Center for
Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, and the Arts, August 31, 1998
Pileggi, Roberta, Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, August 15, 1998
Price, Vincent E., Associate Professor of Communication Studies, with tenure, and Chair,
Department of Communication Studies, College of Literature, and the Arts, June 30, 1998
Purdy, Carolina B., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, and the Arts, June 30, 1998
Quinn, James V. Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery Medical School, June 30, 1998
Ruan, Carolyn M., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
July 16, 1998
Sanchez, George J., Associate Professor of History and American Culture, with tenure,
College of Literature, and the Arts, May 31, 1998
Schreiner, Robert J., Jr., Clinical Instructor lI in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Sethuraman, Kannan, Assistant Professor of Operations Management, School of Business
Administration, July 31, 1998
Shanley, Charles J., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Shepard, Neil T., Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, and Director,
Vestibular Testing Center, Medical School, June 30, 1998


74




September Meeting, 1998


Snyder, Edward A., Senior Associate Dean and Professor of Business Economics and Public
Policy, with tenure, School of Business Administration, July 31, 1998
Stavropoulos, Mary F., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
July 24, 1998
Stollack, Mary A., Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Music, M-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, August 31, 1998
Trotman, Carroll-Ann E., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 31, 1998
Weiss, Bernard, Professor of Pathology, with tenure, Medical School, July 3, 1998
Zakharov, Valentine I., Professor of Physics, College of Literature, and the Arts, May 31, 1998
Retired
Jender, Joseph G., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, July 31, 1998
Kanar, Henry L., Associate Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, School of Dentistry,
August 31, 1998
Lang, Brien R,., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, August 31, 1998
Miller, Murray H., Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering, August 31, 1998
Schnermann, Jurgen B., Professor of Physiology, with tenure, Medical School, August 31 1998
Sullivan, Edwards., Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, May 31, 1998
Tait, Charles A., Associate Professor of Education and Audiology, with tenure, School of
Education, November 30, 1998
Term Completed
Aarsvold, John N., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering,
June 30, 1998
Ahuvia, Aaron, Assistant Professor of Marketing, School of Business Administration,
June 30, 1998
Barreales, Marta, Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, and the Arts, May 31, 1998
Baroni, Raphael, Lecturer II in French, College of Literature, and the Arts, term completed
April 30, 1998
Bennett Michael A., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, and the Arts,
July 31, 1998
Benson, Heidi P., Lecturer I in Italian, College of Literature, and the Arts, June 30, 1998
Campbell, Dianna S., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Carrigan, Andrew G., Lecturer II in Creative Writing, Residential College, College of
Literature and the Arts, December 31, 1997
Cardenas, Brenda F., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Caspari, Rachel, Lecturer II in Anthropology, College of Literature, and the Arts, June 30, 1998
Chen, Xiaokai, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, and the
Arts, December 31, 1997
Chen, Fang-Chu, Lecturer I in Physics, College of Literature, and the Art, December 31, 1997
Collins, Steve V., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Contreras, Francisco, Lecturer HI in Spanish, College of Literature, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Doherty, Amy F., Lecturer II in Women's Studies, College of Literature, and the Arts,
December 31, 1997
Douglas, William, Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Fante, Robert G., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, July 6, 1998
Flint, Christopher, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, and the Arts, May 31, 1998
Frieze, William E., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Fromes, Mary C., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medical School, June 30, 1998
Gaca, Julie A., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Geq    aa Glen L., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 30, 1998
Greenwood, Jennifer L., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, and the Arts,
August 31, 1997
Gupta, Sunil, Assistant Professor of Marketing, School of Business Administration,
May 31, 1998
Hanlan, Patricia C., Lecturer I in Astronomy, College of Literature, and the Arts,
August 31, 1997
Henke, Timothy J., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Hickman, Miranda B., Lecturer I in nglish Language and Literature, College of Literature,
and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Huang, Li-Ning, Lecturer II in Communication Studies, College of Literature, and the Arts,
June 30, 1998


75




September Meeting, 1998


Jindal, Usha R., Lecturer I in Hindi-Urdu, College of Literature, and the Arts,
December 31 1997
Jones, Lance R., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, August 31, 1998
King, Miriam L., Assistant Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, and the Arts,
May 31, 1998
Laughlin, Gregory P., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, and the Arts,
December 31, 1997
Levenstein, Margaret C., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, and the
Arts May 31, 1998
Lin, Ali i. T., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Lindner, James H., Lecturer in Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering
December 31, 1997
Luebbe, Christopher D., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, June 30, 1998
Manuca, Radu, Lecturer I in Physics, College of Literature, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Mardon, Mary T., Lecturer I in Philosophy, College of Literature, and the Arts,
December 31, 1997
McCollum, Steven A., Lecturer I in Biology, College of Literature, and the Arts, August 31, 1998
McKinsey, Pamela S., Lecturer I in Russian History, College of Literature, and the Arts,
December 31 1997
Millar, Katherine B., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, and the Arts,
December 31, 1997
Munshey Gulafshan A., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 30, 1998
Oswald, Gilbert T., II, Lecturer II in Communications/Film, Residential College, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Lecturer in Education, School of Education,
December 31, 1997
Pendleton, Sara M., Lecturer in Internal Medicine and Lecturer in Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Pepper, John W., Lecturer I in Anthropology and Lecturer I in Biology, College of
Literature, and the Arts December 31, 1997
Pfaff, Raman, Lecturer I in Physics, College of Literature, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Picolo, W. Vincent, Jr., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, August 21, 1998
Price, Margaret B., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
and the Arts, June 30, 1998
Pugh, Coleen R., Assistant Professor of Chemistry and Macromolecular Science and
Engineering, College of Literature, and the Arts, August 31, 1998
Ragowsky, Tziona, Lecturer I in Hebrew Language, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 1998
Richardson, Susan L., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
and the Arts, May 31, 1998
Russell, Ann, Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, and the
Arts, May 31, 1998
Schmitt, Michael T., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Shea, William F., Lecturer II in American Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 1998
Sheehi, Stephen P., Lecturer II in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, and the Arts,
April 30, 1998
Skalsey, Mark A., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Stone, David L., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, and the Arts,
December 31, 1997
Taylor, Charles L., III, Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies and Lecturer I in English
Language and Literature, College of Literature, and the Arts, August 31, 1998
Toogood, Peter L., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, and the Arts,
July 31, 1998
Waghulde, Vidyullata C., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, and the Arts,
April 30, 1998
Wilson, Melvin R., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, July 31, 1998
Wu, Ping, Lecturer II in Communication Studies, College of Literature, and the Arts,
June 30, 1998
Young, Thomas E., Lecturer II in Buddhist Studies, College of Literature, and the Arts,
December 31, 1997
Zaki, Ahmed A., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School June 30, 1998
Zimmerman, Angela T., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, July 8, 1998
Zweip, Mary N., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, and
the Arts, December 31, 1997
Retirement memoirs. Provost Cantor submitted recommendations
for the adoption of six retirement memoirs.


76




September Meeting, 1998


Ramon R. Joseph, M.D., assistant dean and professor of internal
medicine in the Medical School, retired from active faculty status on
November 30, 1984, following 22 years of service.
Dr. Joseph received his B.S. degree from Manhattan College in 1952 and
his M.D. degree from Cornell University in 1956. He received internship and
residency training at Meadowbrook Hospital in Hempstead, New York, in
1956-57 and additional residency training at Wayne County General Hospital
from 1959-62. He came to the University of Michigan as an instructor in 1962
and was promoted to assistant professor in 1965, associate professor in 1968,
and professor of internal medicine in 1975. He served as assistant dean of the
Medical School and director of the Department of Internal Medicine at Wayne
County General Hospital from 1973-84 and also directed the Internal Medicine
Residency Program and the Gastroenterology Fellowship Training Program at
Wayne County General Hospital.
An outstanding clinician, lecturer, and teacher, Dr. Joseph introduced
fiberoptic endoscopy at Wayne County General Hospital soon after the
development of this technology, and he was a skilled endoscopist. He trained
many fellows and actively participated in the teaching of hundreds of medical
students and residents. His opinion on difficult cases was widely sought. As an
administrator, Dr. Joseph guided the Department of Medicine and the medical
staff of Wayne County General Hospital through the difficult transition of
developing a medical practice plan and eventually ending their affiliation with
the University of Michigan. Dr. Joseph's efforts brought order to potential
chaos, and he was highly respected by all as a skilled administrator.
In 1985, Dr. Joseph's contributions to the University were memorialized by
former Medical School deans as follows: "In your capacity as the assistant dean
for Wayne County-Westland and the dominant figure at that hospital for 20
years, you provided an educational opportunity to the University the value of
which... no one disputes. It is unlikely that anyone of lesser personal, political,
and administrative skills could have done this. The experience which our
medical students and house officers obtained there throughout that period was
unquestionably a major contribution to the clinical education programs of the
school."
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Ramon R. Joseph professor emeritus of internal medicine.
Henry L. Kanar, D.D.S, associate professor of dentistry in the School
of Dentistry, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1998.
Dr. Kanar received his D.D.S. degree in 1957 from the University of
Detroit and his M.S. degree in pediatric dentistry in 1971 from the University
of Michigan. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan as a clinical
instructor in the Department of Pedodontics in 1964 and was promoted to
assistant professor in 1972 and associate professor in 1976. Dr. Kanar also
held an appointment as an attending staff member at the University of
Michigan Mott Children's Hospital. There, since 1982, he was a member of
the craniofacial anomalies program and the Cleft Palate Center. From
1969-81, Dr. Kanar also was program director for dentistry at the Institute
for the Study of Mental Retardation and Related Disabilities (ISMRRD).
Within ISMRRD, he also served as coordinator of student activities from
1971-73 and acting associate director for clinical activities from 1973-74.


77




September Meeting, 1998


Dr. Kanar has been a strong participant in the department's pre-doctoral,
graduate, and postgraduate teaching and clinic activity and has served as
consultant to the School of Dentistry's General Practice Residency Program
at University Hospitals. He has served on numerous committees, both within
the School of Dentistry and at ISMRRD and was a member of the University's
Senate Advisory Review Committee and the University Library Council.
During the past 35 years, Dr. Kanar has served as consultant to many
agencies, including the Michigan Academy of Dentistry for the Handicapped,
Wyandotte General Hospital, Plymouth State Home and Training School, and
the Michigan Departments of Mental Health and Public Health. He has been
a member and officer in local, state, and national professional societies and
has served both on the editorial board and as associate editor of the journal,
Special Care in Dentistry. Dr. Kanar is a fellow of the Academy of Hospital
Dentistry for the Handicapped and is a member of Omicron Kappa Upsilon
and Phi Kappa Phi honor societies.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health sciences educator by
naming Henry L. Kanar associate professor emeritus of dentistry.
Brien R. Lang, D.D.S., professor of dentistry in the Department of
Prosthodontics, School of Dentistry, retired from active faculty status on
August 31, 1998.
Dr. Lang received his A.B. degree in 1956 from Albion College and his
D.D.S. (1961) and M.S. (1965) degrees from the University of Michigan. He
joined the University of Michigan School of Dentistry as an assistant professor in
1965 and was promoted to associate professor in 1969 and professor in 1972.
From 1971-96, he also served as chair of the school's Department of Complete
Denture Prosthesis. He has been a diplomate of the American Board of
Prosthodontics since 1969 and has served as director of the Nobel Biocare/
University of Michigan Center for Excellence within the School of Dentistry
since 1994.
Dr. Lang has distinguished himself nationally and internationally as a
scholar, researcher, and teacher. He has served as consultant to numerous
organizations and as both examiner and president of the American Board of
Prosthodontics. He has been a reviewer for the International Journal of
Prosthodontics, a member of the editorial committee of the Journal of
Implant Dentistry, and a member and vice chair of the editorial council for the
Journal of Prosthetic Dentistry. His publication record includes more than 71
journal articles and 10 chapters in textbooks. His main research interests
have been in the area of complete denture prosthodontics.
Dr. Lang has served on the School of Dentistry Executive Committee and
many other school committees and was a member of the Multidisciplinary
Advisory Committee to the Michigan Geriatric Center for the Institute of
Gerontology. He is a member of numerous professional organizations and is
both member and past president of the Academy of Prosthodontics. Dr. Lang
has been a member and officer of the Chi Chapter of Omicron Kappa Upsilon
and a member of Beta Beta Beta honorary societies. He received the Jerome
M. and Dorothy Schweitzer research award from the Greater New York
Academy of Prosthodontics in 1994 and the Presidents Award (1995) and
Daniel Gordon Award (1997) from the American College of Prosthodontics.


78




September Meeting, 1998


The Regents now salute this distinguished health sciences educator by
naming Brien R. Lang professor emeritus of dentistry.
Murray H. Miller, Ph.D., professor of electrical and computer
engineering in the School of Engineering at the University of MichiganDearborn, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1998.
Professor Miller earned his B.S. degree in 1950, his M.S. degree in 1951,
and his Ph.D. degree in 1959, all in electrical engineering and all from the
University of Michigan. He was a faculty member on the Ann Arbor campus
from 1959-69 and joined the electrical and computer engineering department
at UM-Dearborn as an associate professor in 1971. He was promoted to
professor in 1977.
Professor Miller served as acting chair of the department from 1976-77
and as chair from 1977-84. He also served three terms as a member of the
college's executive committee. As an educator, he developed and updated
instructional laboratories in digital logic, electronics, controls, robotics, and
microprocessors. He was also the faculty advisor for the Institute of Electrical
and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) student branch and Fairlane Power House
renovation. He was one of the founders of Conductron Corporation, KMS
Industries, and Vicom Inc.
Professor Miller is a member of IEEE, the American Society of
Engineering Educators, Sigma Xi, Eta Kappa Nu, and Tau Beta Pi. He was a
recipient of the Tau Beta Pi Eminent Engineer Award in 1982. He also
received the Vincent Bendix Award. He has over thirty publications, classified
reports, and presentations to his credit and was awarded three U.S. patents.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Murray H.
Miller professor emeritus of electrical and computer engineering.
Marlin P. Ristenbatt, Ph.D., research scientist in the Department of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS), retired from active
faculty status on May 31, 1998, following a long and productive career as a
teacher and researcher at the University of Michigan.
Dr. Ristenbatt received his B.S. (1952) and M.S. (1954) degrees in
electrical engineering from Pennsylvania State University and his Ph.D.
degree (1961) in electrical engineering from the University of Michigan. He
joined the faculty as an associate research engineer in 1960 and became a
research engineer in 1961. His title was changed to research scientist in 1973.
During most of this time, he was also a lecturer in electrical engineering.
Dr. Ristenbatt's research interests include intelligent transportation
systems, digital communications systems, position location techniques,
microwave and fiberoptic communication systems, spread spectrum
communications, coherent detection, and local area networks.  He has
published over 75 articles and technical reports. In 1985, Dr. Ristenbatt
received the IEEE/USAB Citation of Honor for "outstanding contribution
towards achieving recognition of national professional activities." In 1997, he
received a United States Activities Board Citation of Honor from the IEEE
"for his 20 years of work in the areas of career maintenance and development
for U.S. engineers, including his leadership of the project to create the
document 'IEEE-USA Guidelines for Professional Employment.' "
Dr. Ristenbatt taught numerous EECS courses over a period of many
years, including two senior level courses which he developed: "Digital
79




September Meeting, 1998


Communication Systems and Signals" and "Microwave and Fiber Optic
Communication Systems." An active participant in the Engineering Summer
Conferences, he has chaired many conferences and sessions and has delivered
a significant number of lectures to conference attendees.
The Regents now salute this distinguished researcher and teacher for
his dedicated service by naming Marlin P. Ristenbatt research scientist
emeritus.
Jurgen B. Schnermann, M.D., professor of physiology, retired from
active faculty status on August 31, 1998, after a long and productive career as
a teacher and researcher.
A native of Germany, Dr. Schnermann studied at the University of
Munich and the University of Hamburg and received his M.D. degree from
the University of Freiburg in 1962. He received further research training at
the University of Gottingen in Germany and Cornell University in New York
City. He joined the faculty of the Department of Physiology at the University
of Munich in 1968 and was appointed professor of physiology in 1974. He
came to the University of Michigan in 1985 as professor of physiology.
During his career, he has also served as visiting scientist or professor at Yale
University, the University of Ottawa, the University of Texas, and the
University of Heidelberg.
Dr. Schnermann is an internationally recognized kidney physiologist
who has contributed extensively to the understanding of the renal
mechanisms of tubuloglomerular feedback and the function of the
juxtaglomenilar apparatus. Recently, he has played a lead role in utilizing
transgenic and knockout mice to study renal physiology. He has been
recognized by the American Physiological Society and the American Heart
Association for his research and served on the editorial boards of a number of
journals, including the American Journal of Physiology.
Dr. Schnermann has played an important role in the teaching of renal
physiology to medical and graduate students at the University of Michigan. He
has served on the Medical School Admissions Committee and the Physiology
Graduate Committee and has trained a number of graduate students and
postdoctoral fellows who are now themselves contributors to his field.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his
dedicated service by naming Jurgen B. Schnermann professor emeritus of
physiology.
Memorials. Provost Cantor submitted memorial statements for two
deceased faculty members, and also noted the recent death of Professor
Sharon Stevens.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound
sadness the death on April 13, 1998, of Raymond Y. Fadous, Ph.D.,
associate professor of computer science at the University of Michigan-Flint.
Professor Fadous was born in Chekka, Lebanon, on February 1, 1940.
He received B.S. and M.S. degrees in mathematics from Michigan State
University in 1963 and 1965 and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in computer
science, also from that institution, in 1973 and 1975. Professor Fadous joined
the faculty of the University of Michigan-Flint in 1977. He was away from
the University from 1982-87, while he taught in the Departments of


80




September Meeting, 1998


Computer Science of Beirut University College-Loueze, American University
of Beirut-East Beirut, and Haigazian University. He returned to his associate
professorship at the University of Michigan-Flint in 1987, serving as chair of
the computer science department from 1989-92 and teaching in that
department until his untimely death.
Professor Fadous' early professional contributions to computer science
were in the area of relational database theory, but his interests evolved as did
his field. A voracious reader in his area, he always kept up on the latest
technology. He was a superb teacher and was considered a master at making
complex subjects and topics simple, clear, and concise for his audience. He had
a special interest in cryptography and offered many courses on new technology.
He also extended his expertise to the public by offering an extension and
continuing education course on the internet and the world wide web.
His colleagues will long remember his contributions to the University.
As we mourn his loss, our condolences go to his wife Dola and his children
Sandy, Joe, and Andy.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound
sadness the death on July 24, 1998, of Glenn Myron Knudsvig, Ph.D.,
professor of Latin, and for many years director of the University's nationally
acclaimed Elementary Latin Program.
Born on December 11, 1940, and raised in Buxton, North Dakota,
Professor Knudsvig received his B.A. degree in classical studies from
Concordia College in Moorehead, Minnesota, in 1962. He attended graduate
school at the University of Michigan, where he completed M.A. degrees in
classical studies and in behavioral science. He received his Ph.D. degree in
1974 in psychology with a specialty in curricular design.
Professor Knudsvig joined the faculty of the Department of Classical
Studies at Michigan in 1963 and worked tirelessly and with great effectiveness
for both the department and the University in many capacities during his 35
year tenure. He served as director of the Reading and Learning Skills Center
from 1971-73 and interim director of the English Composition Board in 1977.
He was a member of the faculty of the School of Education and for many years
he was associated with the Michigan Business School as workshop director for
the Graduate School of Business Administration's Executive Education
Program. Professor Knudsvig was honored with the University of Michigan
Distinguished Achievement Award in 1977. He was known worldwide for his
innovative and effective methods for the teaching of second languages. He
authored numerous college textbooks and his Latin for Reading (co-authored
with Professor Gerda Seligson) is used nationwide. His most recent book is
Critical Thinking: Building the Basics.
Professor Knudsvig was president of the American Classical League from
1994-98, and his contributions to language learning on the national level were
many and substantial. He served the College Board of Examination Committee
and, since 1979, as a consultant for the National Latin Exam. His expertise in
testing was extraordinary. He made a significant impact on the way classical
languages were represented in the foreign language community at large.
Professor Knudsvig was passionate about the facilitation of learning and
was known as a teacher of teachers. He was sought out by students, teachers,
colleagues, and executives because of his compassion, willingness to listen, and


81




September Meeting, 1998


nonjudgmental nature. He was an advocate, mentor, and coach for all who
were in search of bettering themselves. Professor Knudsvig understood the
struggles and challenges people face and was a tremendous resource for helping
them overcome personal and professional hurdles. He held himself to the
highest professional and personal standards and inspired others to do the same.
The University community has suffered a tremendous loss, much before time.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
MSA Report. President Bollinger called on Mr. Trent Thompson,
president of MSA. Mr. Thompson handed out the monthly MSA report and
apologized for the fact that Mr. Bram Elias, treasurer of MSA, had not been
able to make it to the public comments session in time to address the Board
the day before.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded
by Regent McFee, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda
University of Michigan Financial Statements for the Year Ended
June 30, 1998; 1998-99 Budgets
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted for information the annual
financial statements for the year ended June 30, 1998, as audited and
certified by Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors. He also submitted
for information the 1998-99 budget book, which formally compiles the budget
that was approved in July 1998.
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that in the past, the Regents had
been asked to approve the financial statements before having had an
opportunity to review them and meet with the auditors. He has adjusted the
timing so that the financial statements are being transmitted in September,
which will enable the Regents to review them and contact him with
questions prior to receiving the report of the independent auditor the
following month. Approval of the financial statements will be sought in
conjunction with the report of the independent auditor in October. He noted
that Ernst & Young has offered an unqualified opinion this year.
Regarding the University's Budget Book for fiscal year 1998-99, he
observed that this book has traditionally been compiled to be more responsive
to accounting needs than to be a valuable configuration of information. He
reported that he and Executive Vice President Omenn, along with staff in
Financial Operations on central campus and the health system, would be
working over the next year to make sure that the data contained in the next
budget book will be more helpful and responsive to the Regents' and
administration's need to have a more meaningful understanding of what is
occurring.
Regent Deitch noted that in the past, the Regents had raised the issue of
rotation of the University's external auditors. Executive Vice President Kasdin
responded that the time to make the decision to engage a new auditor is in the
winter, when the next year's audit is being planned. He said that although the
University is very pleased with Ernst & Young, he has informed Ernst & Young


82




September Meeting, 1998


that he and his staff will be carefully reviewing the benefits of rotation over the
coming winter. A request for proposal will be sent out at that time.
Alternative Equity Investment
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $15.0 million of the Long Term
Portfolio to Berkshire Fund V, L.P.
Oak Investment Partners VIII, L.P.
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that the University had made a
follow-on investment of $10.0 million to Oak Investment Partners VIII, L.P.
Absolute Return Managers
Executive Vice President Kasdin explained the investment strategies of
"absolute return" managers. On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by
Regent Power, the Regents unanimously approved the appointment of
Centurion Investment Group, Farallon Capital Management, Highfields
Capital, and Och-Ziff Capital Management Group, at an initial funding of $25
million each, subject to a favorable legal review of the documents by the
general counsel's office.
Rackham Engineering Foundation
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that the Rackham Engineering
Foundation is asking to be allowed to change its distribution policy so as to
increase the spending of income on its endowment from 3 percent of principal
to 5 percent of principal.
Regent Power noted that there had been discussion in past years of
disposing of this building because the programming associated with its use is
not particularly relevant to the University's interests.  Executive Vice
President Kasdin responded that there have been impediments in the
University's desire to dispose of the building, and as a result, a long-term
arrangement was made with Wayne State University (WSU) under which
WSU would occupy and maintain the facility.
Regent McFee observed that the Rackham Engineering Foundation
building represents the University's presence in Detroit. In the past, the
desirability of maintaining a presence in Detroit has perpetuated the interest
in continuing to find uses for this building.
Executive Vice President Kasdin proposed presenting an item for
information at an upcoming meeting that would provide further information on
the relationship with Wayne State University and the status of this building.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved supporting the request of the Engineering Society of
Detroit to increase the Trust's distribution rate from 3 percent to 5 percent.
Dow Building Addition
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that in February 1997 the
Regents had approved a $7 million addition to the Herbert H. Dow Building.


83




September Meeting, 1998


Since that time, structural ways of enhancing efficiency and additional
programmatic needs have been identified. Therefore, a larger $18 million is
now being proposed, in lieu of the originally approved addition. He called on
Arthur Andersson, architect, to present the revised design for the project.
Mr. Andersson displayed a map of North Campus showing the location
of the building, as well as site plans, floor plans, renderings of the exterior,
and samples of the brick and "Rheinzink" materials planned for the exterior,
and he described the various features of the structure.
President Bollinger reported that this project had undergone months of
discussion, and that while compatible with the existing structure, it also will
add to the visual interest of North Campus.
Following further discussion, Regent McFee moved approval of the
revised project scope, design, and budget as described, along with
authorization for soliciting bids and awarding a construction contract to the
successful bidder providing the project remains within the approved budget.
Regent Deitch seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Mason Hall and Haven Hall Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved the Mason Hall and Haven Hall Renovation
Project and authorized contracting with the firm of Einhorn Yaffee Prescott,
Architecture & Engineering P.C. for its design.
Perry Building Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved the Perry Building Renovation Project and
authorized contracting with the firm of Einhorn Yaffee Prescott,
Architecture & Engineering P.C. for its design.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC)
Relocation and Expansion of Services in Briarwood Buildings 1, 3,
and 5
Executive Vice President Omenn reviewed the advancements in health
care which have allowed medical and diagnostic procedures to be performed
outside of the traditional hospital setting. This has led to the emergence of
smaller facilities geographically distributed so as to be more conveniently
located for patients. He noted that although the UMHHC now has about 30
health centers in the area surrounding Ann Arbor, some of these are dated or
too small for present needs or in other ways inadequate. In keeping with the
general organized expansion of ambulatory services by the UMHHC in
Washtenaw County and surrounding areas, the relocation and expansion of
the Briarwood Buildings 1, 3, and 5 are being proposed, as described in the
Regents Communication.
Regent Horning moved approval of expansion and relocation of the
UMHHC services in Briarwood Buildings 1, 3, and 5, as described in the


84




September Meeting, 1998


Regents Communication. Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
New Plymouth/Canton and Novi Health Centers
Executive Vice President Omenn informed the Regents that in keeping
with its goal of creating a geographically distributed health care network, the
University of Michigan Health System (UMHS) has identified the
Plymouth/Canton and Novi communities as two of the top areas for rapid
expansion. The Health System has identified new sites in each of these
communities which will replace its current sites and has negotiated leases
with local developers, as described in the Regents Communication.
Executive Vice President Omenn described the mutually-beneficial
partnership that has developed between the UMHS and Providence Medical
Center in Novi, noting that the new UMHS health center will be located in a
building owned and operated by Providence Medical Center. He also described
a similar partnership arrangement in the city of Lansing, Michigan.
Regent McFee commented that as a person who lives in an out-state
community in Michigan, she appreciates the physical connection being made
to the University of Michigan Health System in outlying areas. She noted
that it poses quite a burden on people to have to travel to Ann Arbor to
receive medical services, so she applauded the trend toward expansion of
these services to other areas of the state.
Purchasing Contract with Hesseltine & DeMason Design, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Power, all six
Regents present unanimously approved a purchasing contract with
Hesseltine & DeMason Design, Inc., for design services to be used for the
Medical School Sesquicentennial celebration. Regents Deitch and McGowan
were not present for this vote or the following vote.
Because Douglas H. Hesseltine is both the owner of Hesseltine &
DeMason Design, Inc., and a University of Michigan employee, this contract
falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchasing contract will be the Regents of the University of
Michigan and Hesseltine and DeMason Design, Inc.
2.  The terms of the contract are to provide design services for the Medical
School Sesquicentennial celebration, particularly the creation and application
of the Medical School Sesquicentennial logo, for the duration of the
celebration, through December 31, 2000, for $10,000.
3.  Mr. Hesseltine's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of Hesseltine
and DeMason Design, Inc.
Purchasing Contract with Clark-MXR, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Maynard, all six
Regents present unanimously approved a purchasing contract with
Clark-MXR, Inc. Because Gerard A. Mourou is both a partial owner of
Clark-MXR, Inc., and a University of Michigan employee, this purchasing


85




September Meeting, 1998


contract falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the purchasing contract will be the Regents of the University
of Michigan and Clark-MXR, Inc.
2.  The terms of the contract include the purchase of unique optical equipment,
in the form of two requisitions totaling $10,700.
3.  Professor Mourou's pecuniary interest arises from his position as partial
owner of Clark-MXR, Inc.
Residency Guidelines
Provost Cantor reported that the Residency Guidelines approved in July
1997 contained a paragraph (section B.2.a., second paragraph) intended to
provide greater clarity to the document. However, this paragraph has
instead become a source of confusion among potential residency applicants,
so it is now being recommended that the paragraph be deleted from the
guidelines. On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved and adopted the Residency Guidelines, as
amended by the deletion of section B.2.a., second paragraph, effective fall
term 1998. The revised guidelines can be found in Appendix A, page 89.
Revision of Bylaws of the Executive Board of the University of
Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
Regent Power moved approval of the proposed revisions to the Bylaws of
the Executive Board of the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health
Centers so as to move the granting of clinical privileges from the Regents to
the Hospitals executive board, as described in the Regents Communication.
Regent Horning seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Revision of the Medical Staff Bylaws of the University of
Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
Executive Vice President Omenn called on Dr. Charles Watts, chief of
clinical affairs at University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC), to review the proposed revisions to the UMHHC medical staff
bylaws. Dr. Watts explained that the bylaws revisions were necessary due to
the upcoming reaccreditation process by the Joint Commission on
Accreditation of Health Care Organizations and to preserve the academic
mission and the unique relationships between the Hospitals, the Medical
School, and the medical staff. Other areas of concern that prompted revision
involved the need to incorporate changes in state law and the need to correct
the perception by the Joint Commission that there were more than one set of
standards and structures for the health system's medical staff.
He reviewed each of the major substantive issues addressed in the
bylaws revision process and noted that the medical staff had approved the
revisions by a vote of 406 to 7.
Regent Power moved approval of the proposed revisions to the Medical
Staff Bylaws of the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers, as
detailed in the Regents Communication. Regent Horning seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
86




September Meeting, 1998


Recommendations for Appointment to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Power, and on the
recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board,
the Regents unanimously approved certain specified appointments to medical
staff membership.
Concluding Remarks
President Bollinger thanked the individuals who will be serving in the
new vice presidential positions. He said that he would be seeking greater
central coordination and reporting to the vice president and general counsel
and the vice president for government relations from individuals throughout
the institution who function in those areas.
President Bollinger reported a number of recent accomplishments of
faculty members that have received national recognition, and also noted that
the University of Michigan Hospitals had been recognized as one of the 14
best hospitals in America, according to a survey by U.S. News and World
Report. Dr. Omenn noted that the Department of Family Medicine was just
named one of three National Centers for Health Services Research in
Primary Care.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Horning made the following motion:
Pursuant to Sections 8(e) and 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202 and 1996 PA 464, I move that the Board of
Regents meet in closed session on September 17, 1998, in the Regents'
Room, for the purposes of consulting with our attorney regarding trial
or settlement strategy in connection with specific pending litigation
(section 8e) and of considering material exempt from discussion or
disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act (section 8h).
Such exempt material consists of a written opinion from the Board's
legal counsel.
Regent Taylor seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Adjournment
The meeting then continued in executive session from 11:10 a.m. until
12:00 noon, at which time it adjourned. The next meeting will take place
October 15 and 16, 1998.
Nancy Cantor
Provost and Executive Vice President
for Academic Affairs


87




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1998


APPENDIX A
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Information on Residency Classification for Admission and Tuition Purposes
Authority
The governing board at each university in Michigan has the authority to determine residency
classification guidelines for admission and tuition purposes. Therefore, residency guidelines
may vary from school to school and are independent of guidelines used by other state authorities to determine residency for purposes such as income and property tax liability, driving, and
voting.
The following guidelines were approved by the University of Michigan's Board of Regents to
take effect spring term 1998 and to apply to students at all campuses of the University of
Michigan. The guidelines are administered by the Residency Classification Office in the Office
of the Registrar at the Ann Arbor campus, 1514 LS&A Building, University of Michigan, 500
South State Street, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1382, (734) 764-1400.
THE STUDENT'S RESPONSIBILITIES AND THE RESIDENCY APPLICATION PROCESS
It is the student's responsibility to read the University Residency Classification Guidelines
contained in this document and to apply for admission and register under the proper
residency classification. It is also the student's responsibility to file an Application for
Resident Classification for an official determination of status. Students are encouraged to
consult with staff in the Residency Classification Office if they have questions or assistance.
The admissions offices at the various schools and colleges within the University perform the initial
screening for residency classification. If a student indicates Michigan resident status on the
admissions application and the admissions office questions that status, the student will be
classified as a nonresident and notified of the need to file an Application for Resident Classification with the Residency Classification Office. The fact that a student's claim to residency
for University purposes is questioned does not necessarily mean that he or she will be ineligible;
it simply means that the student's circumstances must be documented and reviewed by the
Residency Classification Office. Failure on the part of admissions staff to question a
student's claim to resident eligibility does not relieve the student of the responsibility to
apply and register under the proper residency classification. Furthermore, the University
reserves the right to audit enrolled or prospective students at any time with regard to eligibility
for resident classification and to reclassify students who are registered under an improper
residency classification.
Until an Application for Resident Classification is filed and approved, a student who previously attended any campus of the University of Michigan as a nonresident will continue to be
classified as a nonresident at all campuses.
Upon application for admission to any campus of the University, an individual who claims
eligibility for resident classification must file an Application for Resident Classification for an
official determination of status if any of the following circumstances apply:
*    the individual is living out of state at the time of application to the University
*    either parent is living out of state (applies if the individual is 24 years of age
or younger)
*    the individual has attended or graduated from an out of state high school
(applies if the individual is 24 years of age or younger)


89




September Meeting, 1998 - Appendix


*   the individual has attended or graduated from an out of state high school
and has been involved in educational pursuits for the majority of time since
graduation from high school
*   the individual has had out of state employment or domicile within the last 3
years
The above list is not exhaustive. An individual is responsible for filing an application for
resident classification in any situation where the individual's eligibility for residency under
these guidelines could be reasonably questioned.
Filing Deadlines
Students may apply for resident classification for any term in which they are enrolled or
intend to enroll. The deadline dates for filing the Application for Resident Classification are
the same for all University of Michigan schools, colleges, and campuses.* The following dates
apply to the term for which residency is sought If the deadline falls on a weekend, it will be
extended to the next business day.
Fall Term.... September 30       Winter Term.... January 31
For all Spring, Spring/Summer, and Summer Terms.... July 31
* For the On Job/On Campus program, filing deadlines are 30 calendar days after the first
scheduled day of classes.
Documentation Which Must Be Included When Films for Resident Classification
When filing an Application for Resident Classification, the following documentation must be
included with the application form:
* for all applicants: a copy of the driver's license of the applicant and of the
person or persons upon whom the applicant is basing the claim to resident
eligibility
* for all applicants: copies of the front and signature pages of the most recent
year's federal and state income tax returns and W2s for the applicant and
the person or persons upon whom the applicant is basing the claim to
resident eligibility
* for applicants born outside the U.S.: verification of U.S. citizenship or visa
status
* for applicants who are dependents: (see Residence Classification Guideline
B-l) copies of the front and signature pages of the parents' most recent
year's federal and state income tax returns
* for applicants whose claim to eligibility for resident classification is based on
permanent full-time employment for themselves, a parent, spouse, or domestic partner: a letter from the employer, written on letterhead (including
phone number), stating the position, status and dates of employment. The letter
should be accompanied by a copy of the most recent pay stub showing Michigan
taxes being withheld.
Applicants are also responsible for providing any other documentation necessary to support
their claim to resident eligibility. Additional documentation may be requested by the
Residency Classification Office.
Appeal Process
If an Application for Resident Classification is denied by the Residency Classification Office,
the student may request that his or her file be reviewed by the University's Residency
Appeal Committee. The appeal request must be made in writing and must be received in the
Residency Classification Office within 30 calendar days of the date on the denial letter. If the
deadline falls on a weekend or University holiday, it will be extended to the next business
day.
All contact with the Residency Appeal Committee must be in writing. Personal contact with
a member of the committee prior to the meeting could disqualify the member from participating in the decision. A student who wishes the committee to consider additional


90




September Meeting, 1998 - Appendix


information must submit the information to the Residency Classification Office, in writing,
with the appeal request The information will then be forwarded to the Residency Appeal
Committee with the student's file.
The student will receive a written decision from the committee when the review is complete.
Once the Residency Appeal Committee issues its decision there are no further appeals for the
term covered by the application.
Misrepresentation and Falsification of Information
Applicants who provide false or misleading information or who intentionally omit relevant information in an application for admission, an application for resident classification, or any other
document relevant to residency eligibility may be subject to legal or disciplinary measures.
Students improperly classified as residents based on this type of information will have their
residency classification changed and may be retroactively charged nonresident tuition for the
period of time they were improperly classified.
RESIDENCY CLASSIFICATION GUIDELINES
For University purposes. "domicile" is defined as the place where an individual intends
his/her true, fixed, and permanent home and principal establishment to be, and to which the
individual intends to return whenever he or she is absent. These Guidelines are designed to
explain how a student may demonstrate the required intent and establishment of a domicile in
Michigan. An individual whose activities and circumstances, as documented to the University,
demonstrate that she/he intends to be domiciled in Michigan has, in fact, established a
domicile in Michigan will be eligible for classification as a resident. An individual whose
presence in the state is based on activities or circumstances that are indeterminate or temporary,
such as (but not limited to) educational pursuits, will be presumed not to be domiciled in
Michigan and will be classified as a nonresident. The burden of proof is on the applicant to
demonstrate with clear and convincing evidence that he or she is eligible for resident classification
under these guidelines.
These guidelines describe situations that create presumptions of resident and nonresident
status. The fact that a presumption of resident status may apply to a student does not mean
that the student will automatically be classified as a resident or that the student is relieved
of the responsibility for filing an Application for Resident Classification. (See The Student's
Responsibilities and the Residency Application Process on page 1.) To overcome a presumption
of nonresident status, a student must file a residency application and document with clear
and convincing evidence that a Michigan domicile has been established.
A. GENERAL GUIDELINES
1. Circumstances which may demonstrate permanent domicile
The following circumstances and activities, though not conclusive or exhaustive may
lend support to a claim to eligibility for resident classification:
*  both parents (in the case of divorce, one parent) permanently domiciled in Michigan
as demonstrated by permanent employment, establishment of a household, and
severance of out of state ties
*  applicant employed in the state in a full-time, permanent position provided that
the applicant's employment is the primary purpose for the applicant's presence in
Michigan
*  spouse or domestic partner employed in the state in a full-time, permanent position
provided that the spouse or partner's employment is the primary purpose for the
student's presence in Michigan
2. Circumstances which do not demonstrate permanent domicile
The circumstances and activities listed below are temporary or indeterminate and, in
and of themselves, do not demonstrate permanent domicile:
*    enrollment in high school, community college, or university
*    participation in a medical residency program, fellowship or internship


91




September Meeting, 1998 - Appendix


employment that is temporary or short-term
military assignment
employment in a position normally held by a student
ownership of property
presence of relatives (other than parents)
possession of a Michigan driver's license or voter registration
payment of Michigan income or property taxes
the applicant's statement of intent to be domiciled in Michigan
3. One year continuous presence
In cases where it is determined that an applicant has not demonstrated establishment of
a domicile in Michigan as defined by these guidelines, the University will require the
applicant to document one year of continuous physical presence in the state as one of the
criteria for determining eligibility for resident classification in any subsequent Application
for Resident Classification. The year to be documented will be the one year immediately
preceding the first day of classes of the term in question. The year of continuous presence
is never the only criterion used for determining resident eligibility, and, in itself, will not
qualify a student for resident status. If substantial and new information arises which changes
the circumstances of a student's presence in Michigan and which clearly demonstrates the
establishment of a Michigan domicile, the student may be immediately eligible for resident
classification prior to the passage of one year.
In documenting the year of continuous physical presence in Michigan, the applicant will
be expected to show actual physical presence by means of enrollment, employment,
in-person financial transactions, health care appointments, etc. Having a lease or a permanent address in the state does not, in itself, qualify as physical presence. Short-term
absences (summer vacation of 21 days or less, spring break, and break between fall and
winter term), in and of themselves, will not jeopardize compliance with the one year
requirement. In determining the effect of a short term absence, the nature of the absence
will be assessed to determine whether it is contrary to an intent to be domiciled in Michigan. Absences from the state in excess of the time mentioned above or failure to
document physical presence at the beginning and end of the year will be considered as
noncompliance with the one-year continuous presence requirement.
B. RESIDENCY PRESUMPTIONS IN PARTICULAR CIRCUMSTANCES
The fact that a presumption of resident status may apply to a student does not mean that
the student will automatically be classified as a resident or that the student is relieved of
the responsibility for filing an Application for Resident Classification. (See The Student's
Responsibilities and the Residency Application Process on page 1.)
1. Dependent Students
For University residency classification purposes, a student is presumed to be a dependent of
his or her parents if the student is 24 years of age or younger and (1) has been primarily
involved in educational pursuits, or (2) has not been entirely financially self-supporting
through employment.
a Residents
i. Dependent Student - Parents in Michigan
A dependent student whose parents are, according to University Residency Classification Guidelines, domiciled in Michigan is presumed to be eligible for resident classification for University purposes as long as the student has not taken steps to establish a
domicile outside of Michigan or any other action inconsistent with maintaining a
domicile in Michigan.
ii. Dependent Student of Divorced Parents - One Parent in Michigan
A dependent student whose parents are divorced is presumed to be eligible for
resident classification for University purposes if one parent is, according to University Residency Classification Guidelines, domiciled in Michigan. The student must
not have taken steps to establish an independent domicile outside of Michigan or
any other action inconsistent with maintaining a domicile in Michigan.


92




September Meeting, 1998 - Appendix


iii. Dependent Resident Student Whose Parents Leave Michigan
A student who is living in Michigan and who is, by University Residency Classification Guidelines, permanently domiciled in Michigan does not lose resident status if
the parents leave Michigan, provided (1) that the student has completed at least
the junior year of high school prior to the parents' departure, (2) that the student
remains in Michigan, enrolled as a full-time student in high school or an institution of higher education, and (3) that the student has not taken steps to establish a
domicile outside Michigan or any other action inconsistent with maintaining a
domicile in Michigan.
b. Nonresidents
Dependent Student - Parents not in Michigan
A dependent student whose parents are domiciled outside the state of Michigan is
presumed to be a nonresident for University purposes.
2. Michigan Residents and Absences From the State
Individuals who have been domiciled in Michigan according to University Residency
Classification Guidelines immediately preceding certain types of absences from the state
may retain their eligibility for resident classification under the conditions listed below:
a One Year Absence
An individual who has been domiciled in Michigan immediately preceding an absence
from the state of less than one year may return to the University as a resident for
admission and tuition purposes provided (1) that the individual has maintained significant ties to the state during his or her absence, and (2) that the individual severs out
of state ties upon returning to Michigan.
b. Absence for Active Duty Military Service (Army, Navy. Air Force, Marines,
Coast Guard), Missionary Work, Peace Corps, or Similar Philanthropic Work
An individual who is domiciled in Michigan at the time of entry into active military
duty, missionary work, Peace Corps, or similar philanthropic work does not lose eligibility for resident classification as long as he or she is on continuous active duty and
continuously claims Michigan as the state of legal residence for income tax purposes.
Dependent children of such an individual are also eligible for resident classification,
provided (1) that they are coming to the University directly from high school or they
have been continuously enrolled in college since graduating from high school, and (2) that
they have not claimed residency for tuition purposes elsewhere.
c. Absence for Education or Training
An individual who is domiciled in Michigan immediately preceding an absence from the
state for full-time enrollment in school or for a medical residency program, internship,
or fellowship does not lose eligibility for resident classification provided (1) that the
individual has maintained significant ties to the state during his or her absence (e.g.,
parents still in the state, payment of state taxes, active business accounts), and (2)
that the individual has not claimed residency for tuition purposes elsewhere.
3. Residence Status of Immigrants and Aliens
Only persons who are entitled to reside permanently in the United States may be eligible
for resident classification at the University. These individuals, like U.S. citizens, must
still prove that they have established a Michigan domicile as defined in these guidelines.
Having the privilege of remaining permanently in the United States, in itself, does not
entitle a person to resident classification for University purposes. The Residency Classification Office will review the circumstances of the following classes of immigrants:
* Permanent Resident Aliens (must be fully processed and possess Permanent Resident Alien
card or stamp in passport verifying final approval by filing deadline for applicable term)
* Refugees (1-94 card must designate "Refugee")
* A E (primary'). G and I visa holders *
* Based upon current law, these nonimmigrant visa classifications are the only
ones that permit the visa holder to establish a domicile in the United States. The
University Registrar shall update this list as changes occur in applicable law.


93




OCTOBER MEETING, 1998


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, October 15, 1998
The Regents convened at 1:45 p.m. in the Michigan Rooms of the
Harding Mott University. Center at the University of Michigan-Flint.
Present were President Bollinger and Regents Horning, Maynard, McFee,
and McGowan. Also present were Interim Co-General Counsel Barry,
Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Vice President Hartford, Executive
Vice President Kasdin, Vice President Neidhardt, Executive Vice President
Omenn, Chancellor Renick, Interim Chancellor Schmoll, Vice President and
Secretary Tedesco, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regents Taylor and Power
arrived shortly after the start of the meeting; Regents Deitch and Newman
were absent.
President Bollinger: Remarks
President Bollinger noted how pleased he was to be holding the Regents'
meeting on the Flint campus and thanked Chancellor Schmoll for hosting the
meeting. He reported that the search for a new chancellor of UM-Flint is
well underway and is proceeding swiftly according to the plan laid out last
spring.
President Bollinger welcomed Lisa Tedesco and Cynthia Wilbanks to
their first meeting as executive officers of the University.
Memorial Statement for Rheinhard Thum
Chancellor Schmoll observed that a memorial statement for Professor
Rheinhard Thum, a University of Michigan-Flint faculty member who had
died over the summer, was included in the Regents' agenda. She noted that
his wife, Maureen Thum, as well as many of his colleagues, were in the
audience, and she then read the memorial statement (see page 118.)
UM-Flint: Its Unique Contributions
Chancellor Schmoll announced that a new video, "A Michigan Asset:
Today and Tomorrow," would be shown as the first of several presentations
planned to showcase the contributions of the Flint campus.
Following the video, Chancellor Schmoll gave a presentation highlighting
some of the unique programs that are only offered on the Flint campus.
These include programs in physical therapy, anesthesia, health care, medical
technology, radiation therapy, and the Masters in Public Administration
program. The latter has two concentrations, in nonprofit administration and
health care administration, that are unique to the Flint campus. She
described features of each of these programs.
Chancellor Schmoll noted that a number of students in a variety of
disciplines had been invited to give presentations on their research at national


95




October Meeting, 1998


conferences, and that many of the student research projects had won
national awards. She called on Annette Nickel, a physical therapy student,
who gave a presentation on her research project.
David Wigston, acting dean of graduate programs and research and
director of research at UM-Flint, reported that the sixth annual "Meeting of
the Minds" conference had taken place on the Flint campus in May 1998. In
this program, undergraduate students present the results of their research,
and this year, for the first time, a journal of undergraduate research from the
meeting will be published. He called attention to the diversity of research in
which students are engaged and introduced Jason Holt, a student, who
described his research in physics and in English.
Chancellor Schmoll then introduced Professor Richard Hill-Rowley,
director of the Center for Applied Environmental Research. Professor
Hill-Rowley described the projects being conducted at the center involving
groundwater issues and related environmental concerns, including land use
and environmental problems within the City of Flint.
Following the presentations, Chancellor Schmoll noted that the Flint
Campus believes it makes a special contribution to the University of
Michigan system, and that it is proud to carry on the tradition of excellence.
She noted the campus' unique status as serving commuter students who
might otherwise not have access to the University of Michigan.
Executive Vice President Omenn commented on the important role the
Flint campus plays in providing well-trained people in health care fields
where there are a significant number of employment opportunities.
Chancellor Schmoll noted that Woodrow Stanley, mayor of Flint, was in
the audience and noted that Mayor Stanley had been extraordinarily
supportive of the Flint campus.
M-Care
Executive Vice President Omenn announced that Mr. Raymond
Haggerty was completing his term as interim executive director of M-Care,
and noted that he had made significant contributions during his tenure. He
introduced Mr. Haggerty and commended him for his outstanding service.
Executive Vice President Omenn then introduced Ms. Zelda Geyer-Sylvia,
newly-appointed executive director of M-Care. Ms. Geyer-Sylvia said that
she was excited to be joining the University of Michigan Health System and
to be working with providers and hospitals on improving the health of people
in the communities it serves.
M-Care Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws
Executive Vice President Omenn explained the various reasons for the
revision of the M-Care bylaws and articles of incorporation, further details of
which can be found in the Regents Communication.
Regent McFee moved approval of the restated Articles of Incorporation
of M-Care and the revised Bylaws of M-Care, both to take effect as of the
date of final approval of the Articles by the state of Michigan, and further,


96




October Meeting, 1998


that the executive director of M-Care be authorized to take all necessary and
appropriate additional steps on behalf of the University to make and
implement these changes. Regent Taylor seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Peggy Kahn, professor of political
science at UM-Flint, on the negative effect of the new state of Michigan
welfare policies on access to higher education for women, particularly women
with children.
Motion to Meet in Executive Session
Regent Horning made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202 and 1996 PA 464, I move that the Board of Regents meet
in closed session on October 16, 1998, in the Regents' Room, for the
purpose of consulting with our attorney regarding trial or settlement
strategy in connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting continued in executive session from 2:55-3:30 p.m. and then
recessed until the following day.
Friday, October 16, 1998
The Regents convened at 9:45 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McFee,
McGowan, Newman, Power, and Taylor.     Also present were Interim
Co-General Counsel Barry, Vice President Feagin, Executive Vice President
Kasdin, Vice President Neidhardt, Chancellor Renick, Interim Chancellor
Schmoll, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, and Vice President
Wilbanks, Chancellor Renick, Interim Chancellor Schmoll. Provost Cantor,
Executive Vice President Omenn, and Vice President Hartford were absent.
Announcement of Student Death
President Bollinger announced that a student had been found dead early
that morning outside of the Mary Markley residence hall. He noted that the
matter is still under investigation, and no further details were available.
Provost Cantor and Vice President Hartford were both absent from the
meeting because they were involved in addressing aspects of this tragedy.
Regents' Resolution
President Bollinger called to the podium members of the 1997-98
Michigan Academic Competition (MAC) team and their coach Michelle
LaLonde, noting that Regent Maynard would be offering a resolution in their
honor.
Ms. LaLonde introduced the team members: Michael Davidson, Rory
Molinari, Craig Barker, Ravin Garg, and Patricia Dark. Regent Maynard


97




October Meeting, 1998


noted that Coach LaLonde herself had been a member of the 1995 and 1996
MAC teams. She then read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan congratulate and
commend the 1997-98 Michigan Academic Competition (MAC) team
for an outstanding season, culminating in its winning of the College
Bowl National Title for the second time in three years.
The team's decisive victory in the finals over a strong Cornell
University team capped a brilliant season characterized by thorough
preparation and outstanding teamwork. The Regents also commend
Coach Michelle N. LaLonde, who had been a member of Michigan's
1996 MAC national championship team, for her dedication to the team
and to collegiate quiz bowl competition, and for her inspiring
leadership.
The Regents salute all of the members of the Michigan Academic
Competition team and Coach LaLonde for their victorious season and
for the intellectual excitement and vitality they bring to the University
of Michigan.
A round of applause followed.
Year 2000 (Y2K) Progress Report
President Bollinger called on Jose-Marie Griffiths, chief information
officer and executive director of the Information Technology Division. Ms.
Griffiths gave an update on the progress of the University's efforts to address
the issues raised by the Year 2000 challenge to technology-based services and
equipment, as summarized in the Regents' Communication.
Ms. Griffith reported that in addition to working to assure that all
systems will be Y2K compliant, planners had been asked to identify the most
critical issues that could arise. Contingency and disaster recovery planning
is underway, covering every mission-critical system, including power, water
supplies, and communications. All plans are to be in place by June 30, 1999.
In addition, essential personnel for mission-critical systems will be identified
by January 1999 so that they can be prepared to be on-site during the critical
time period.
University of Michigan Senate Assembly's Annual Davis-MarkertNickerson Lecture on Academic and Intellectual Freedom
President Bollinger reported that the president's office is going to be a
co-sponsor of the annual Davis-Markert-Nickerson Academic Freedom
Lecture.  The Senate Assembly created this lecture in 1990 to honor
Professors H. Chandler Davis, Clement Markert, and Mark Nickerson, who,
as University faculty members in the early 1950s, had been dismissed
because of their refusal to testify before the House Un-American Activities
Committee (HUAC). President Bollinger noted that he had given the second
annual Academic Freedom Lecture, and had introduced subsequent speakers
since assuming the presidency.
98




October Meeting, 1998


President Bollinger observed that this historical incident represented an
institutional failing that had occurred in the context of a national climate of
fear and suspicion. He also noted that at the time, however, there was some
degree of support for dismissing faculty who refused to testify before HUAC,
both within institutions and by national faculty organizations. To indicate
his support of the annual Davis-Markert-Nickerson Academic Freedom
Lecture, he has informed the Senate Assembly that the Office of the
President will now be a co-sponsor.
Regent McGowan expressed appreciation to President Bollinger for
having taken this step. She noted that his actions are being done with the
support of the Board of Regents, "thereby ending years of silence on that
issue." Regent Maynard also expressed support for this action.
Energy Star Award
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that the central administration
has demonstrated long-term commitment to pursuing aggressively opportunities
both to save money and to be environmentally responsible. For its efforts, the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency recently presented the University with a
certificate of recognition for voluntarily participating in the agency's Energy Star
program. He noted that the program will cost the University $10 million and
will yield $5 million per year in cost avoidance, with the Harlan Hatcher Library
alone saving $1 million per year. He distributed a packet of information
describing this and other energy conservation awards the University has
received in recent years. He also introduced Mr. Richard Robben, director of
maintenance and utility services, who leads this effort along with his staff.
1998 Financial Statements
Executive Vice President Kasdin called attention to the University's
Financial Report for the Year Ended June 30, 1998. Noting that the balance
sheet continues to be very healthy, he stated that the University "should
never discuss its financial health without starting with an expression of
appreciation to the taxpayers of the state of Michigan" who have provided
financial support through state appropriations. He also called attention to
the generous support the University received from the private sector.
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that the University has been engaged
in a master planning effort and praised the support that has been received in
this endeavor from the city of Ann Arbor and the surrounding townships.
He also praised the work of the University's financial operations staff.
President Bollinger left the meeting at this point, at about 10:30 a.m.,
and Regent Power assumed the role of chair of the meeting.
Ernst & Young LLP Management Report
Mr. Steve Staelin, the Ernst & Young LLP partner with overall
responsibility for the firm's reports on the University's financial statements,
introduced the other individuals who are responsible for various components
of the audit: Mike Simonti, Harold Miller, and George Johnson. He also
noted the importance of Carl Smith, director of University audits, and his
team toward the efforts of Ernst & Young in performing the audit.


99




October Meeting, 1998


Mr. Staelin pointed out that Ernst & Young had expressed an
unqualified opinion on the University's financial statements. He said that
the firm had also audited and reported on the separate financial statements
for the University Hospitals and Health Centers, the Michigan Health
Corporation, the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics, the Executive
Education Center at the School of Business Administration, Veritas
Insurance Corporation, and M-Care. The firm had also audited the financial
statements of three affiliated organizations that had not been included in the
University's combined financial statements: the Alumni Association, the
William Davidson Institute, and the University Musical Society. The reports
for each of these institutions were also unqualified.
Mr. Staelin also reported that there were no material weaknesses in
controls or procedures, and that the recommendations set forth in the
management letter are intended as constructive suggestions to further
strengthen the University's procedures and controls. He noted that in each
instance, the University had concurred with the firm's recommendations,
and that its responses are appropriate. Mr. Staelin offered to respond to any
questions.
Regent Power noted that in the absence of an audit committee, the
Regents encourage the auditors to raise any questions or concerns privately
with the Board at any time.
Regent Power observed that the financial reports present costs and
revenues in the aggregate and adjusted for inflation. He questioned whether
it might be useful to report costs on activity-adjusted basis; i.e., costs
adjusted per unit of volume undertaken.
Executive Vice President Kasdin responded that activity-based
accounting may be appropriate for certain non-scholarly activities, and is
already being done in some areas, including the health center and purchasing
department. He noted that if Provost Cantor had been present, she might
point out that this methodology would not be a useful way to approach the
academic mission of the institution because it fails to reflect the qualitative
aspects of scholarship and teaching and it does not provide a means to
account for quality.
Recalling past discussions of benchmarking, Regent Power questioned
whether it might be useful to begin engaging in both activity-based reporting
and benchmarking in an effort to gain a better understanding of the cost
structure. Executive Vice President Kasdin responded that he would like
first to use basic management and accountability techniques to be assured
that all cost-savings and cost-avoidance measures had been exhausted before
undertaking benchmarking studies. Such comparisons, when tried, raise
serious, time-consuming, methodological questions.
Regent Taylor observed that he believes it is important and possible to
conduct supply chain and benchmarking studies in both the nonacademic
and academic sides of the institution if the appropriate comparative
measures are selected.


100




October Meeting, 1998


Regent Power suggested that the administration regularly apprise the
Board of its plans for dealing with costs. Regent Taylor said that he would
work with Executive Vice President Kasdin to suggest possible avenues for
supply chain analyses.     Executive Vice President Kasdin said that a
presentation by the purchasing department might be useful in demonstrating
that many of the concerns about cost-savings are already being addressed.
Regent Taylor agreed, noting that such presentations would be
beneficial for taxpayers and parents as well as the Regents in order to
demonstrate that the University is operating in the most cost-effective
fashion.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. The minutes of the September 1998 meeting were submitted
for approval.
Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports on
Investment and Plant Extension.        Interim   Co-General Counsel Barry
submitted the Litigation Report.
Vice President Neidhardt submitted a report of projects established for
September 1998. He observed that the dollar value for awards made was 30
percent higher for the month and 60 percent higher for the year than for the
same periods the previous year. He also noted that he had distributed to the
Regents a draft of a report to Congress titled "Toward a New National
Science Policy" whose purpose is to define the role played by research
universities in the American system of research and development.
Voluntary support. Vice President Feagin submitted the monthly
report of monetary gifts received.
Andrew Abel, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............$ 5,000
Earl B. Abramson, Northfield, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Alcoa Corporate Center, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for research in the College of Engineering..............................  25,000
American Automobile Manufacturers Association, Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute....... 200,000
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for the American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education Fellowship
in  the College of Pharmacy............................................  12,000
American Industrial Hygiene Association Foundation, Fairfax, Virginia
for the Ralph Smith Scholarship and other support in the School of
Public  H ealth.........................................................  6,700
Carlos and Gloria Wille Bell Trust
for the Carlos R. and Gloria W. Bell Dean's Merit Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 100,000
Cynthia Reavis Berkshire, Chicago, Illinois
75 shares of Warner-Lambert Company common stock
for the Cynthia R. and Alan G. Berkshire Endowed Scholarship in
the College of Architecture and Urban Planning........................... 5,372
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for employee matching  gifts............................................  11,758
David A. Brandon Foundation, Plymouth
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund........................... 5,000
Gerald Bright, Beverly Hills
298 shares of Masco Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............. 7,105


101




October Meeting, 1998


Barry Briskin, Bloomfield Hills
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund in the Comprehensive
Cancer Center....................................................... 10,200
Leo Burnett Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Leo Burnett Scholars Award Fund in the School of Business
A dm inistration.......................................................  28,000
Carls Foundation, Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund......................... 125,000
David L. Chambers III, Ann Arbor
1,304 shares of various corporate common stock
for special exhibitions support in the Museum of Art...................... 53,968
Chevron Products Company, San Ramon, California
for the Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Scholarship
and Development Fund in the College of Engineering and
for employee matching gifts.5,075
Chrysler Corporation Fund, uburn Hills
for support in the School of Business Administration, for automotive
transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute and
for support in the School of Engineering at the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn................................................... 45,000
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Cigna Property and Casualty-Actuarial Sciences Fund,
Department of Mathematics in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts and for employee matching gifts......................... 5,175
Clark MXR, Inc., Dexter
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 10,000
Billie C. Cojeen, Grand Blanc
for the Robert H. Cojeen Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint...... 5,000
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Group of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship....................................  10,000
Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P., Detroit
for the Coopers & Lybrand-N.E. Auerbach Research Fund in the
School of Business Administration......................................  11,030
Dennis Dahlmann Properties Account, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics, and
for theNichols Arboretum Flowering Tree Fund                         44,000
Detroit Association of University of Michigan Women, Detroit
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship.................5,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for employee matching  gifts...........................................  9,525
Detroit Red Wing Alumni Association, Inc., Detroit
for the Holden Perinatal Gift Fund in the University Hospitals, and
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................... 10,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Medicine,
for the Dow Chemical Grant Fund in Chemical Engineering and other
support in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts....... 46,882
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
for electrical and computer science engineering fellowships in the
College of Engineering                                               25,000
Ecolab Foundation, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.......... 5,000
Elastizell Corporation of America, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society............................... 5,000
Ernst & Young Foundation, Cleveland
for the Ernst & Young Health Care Consulting Scholars Fund in the
School of Public Health...................................... 40,000
Executive Recruiters, Southfield
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School
of Business Administration, for the Solar Car Project Fund in the
College of Engineering and for research in the School of Engineering at
the University of Michigan-Dearborn...................................  65,000
Warren E. Gast, St. Joseph
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.......................... 10,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 175,000


102




October Meeting, 1998


General Motors Corporation, R & D Center, Warren
for research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 125,000
Halliburton Services, Duncan, Ohio
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in
Porous Media in the College of Engineering.............................. 25,000
Hoescht Marion Roussel, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for research in the College of Pharmacy................................... 8,000
Hoffmann-La Roche, Inc Nutley, New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy.................................. 8,000
Hollywood Greyhound Track, Hollywood Florida
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Fund in the Medical
School, and for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan........... 25,500
Honeywell, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Janet A. Hooker Charitable Trust
for research in the Medical School...................................... 65,000
Eu-Phang and Chih H. Hsu Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Eu-Phang and C. H. Hsu Endowment in the College of Pharmacy..... 10,000
Gene Hullinghorst, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 8,500
International Business Machines Corporation, Flint
for electrical and computer science engineering fellowships in the
College  of Engineering................................................  18,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School..................................... 640,314
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for scholarships, fellowships and the Max Kade Foundation Visiting
Professorship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 49,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Schools of Information and Public Health and
for the Urban Environmental Education Fund at the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn................................................. 4,197,500
Knight Foundation, Miami, Florida
for the University Musical Society......................................  50,000
Elaine R. Kurczewski, Northbrook Illinois
for support of the Law School................................  5,000
Walter W. Kurczewski, Northbrook, Illinois
for support in the School of Nursing.....................................  5,000
David A. Lauer, San Francisco, California
for support in the School of Art and Design............................... 5,000
James A. Leavengood, Sterling, Virginia
2,156 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock
for the James Leavengood Charitable Remainder Unitrust Funds
for the ultimate benefit of the Law School............................. 252,522
N. M. Leff Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Dale E. and Norman M. Leff Dean's Merit Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................ 5,000
John C. Louie,Willowdale, Ontario, Canada
for the Cecil and Sue Miskel Fund in the School of Education................ 5,000
Jon B. Lovelace, Jr., Los Angeles, California
for the Humanities Institute Director's Graduate Student Fellowship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 175,000
Lubrizol Foundation, Wickliffe, Ohio
for the Macromolecular Research Center and other support in
the College of Engineering, and for chemistry support in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 5,500
Ann Lurie Revocable Trust
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 100,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Business
Administration, for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica
Endowment in the University Library and for the Hill Auditorium
Restoration Fund and the University Musical Society...................... 18,200
David R. MacDonald, Bethesda, Maryland
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000
Rose Mary Marin Trust
for the Axel Marin Scholarship in the College of Engineering............. 1,000,000


103




October Meeting, 1998


Peter J. Mather, Kalamazoo
4,230 shares of General Signal Corporation common stock
for the Peter J. and Marjory K. Mather Charitable Remainder Unitrust
Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Schools of Law and Medicine.......... 153,205
M. Mildred McIntosh, Boca Raton, Florida
for the Mildred McIntosh Dance Scholarship Endowment in the
School of Music................................................... 10,000
Merck & Company, Inc., West Point, Pennsylvania
for the Asthma Management and Prevention Research Fund in the
School of Public Health...............................................  6,100
Michigan Live, Inc., Ann Arbor
for W U OM /W VGR.....................................................  7,150
Monroe Street Journal, Ann Arbor
for the Monroe Street Journal Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration.......................................................  10,000
James G. Moore, Burton
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 7,817
John M. Nannes, Bethesda, Maryland
for support of the Law School.......................................... 25,000
James A. Nathan Family Foundation, Beverly Hills, California
for the Dean's Faculty Award Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts.........................................................  12,500
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Balti more, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  250,127
Robert E. Nederlander Foundation, New York, New York
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............. 40,000
New Venture Gear, Troy
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  7,500
NGK Insulators, Ltd., Nagoya, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 40,000
Nike, Inc. Beaverton, Oregon
for the Nike Athletic Scholarship for Women and the Nike
Women's Basketball Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............. 25,000
Oberkotter Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute.................... 250,000
Brian Parker Memorial Foundation, Niles
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  16,000
Pharmacia and Upjohn, Inc., Kalamazoo
for research and the Burn Research and Education Development Fund
in the Medical School....................................            8,200
Pharmacia & Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for employee matching gifts.................................... 5,352
Polo Fields Foundation, Ann Arbor
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................... 16,000
Procter & Gamble Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  15,000
Edward F. Redies Foundation, Inc., Saline
for the Wilber K. Pierpont Fund in the School of Business Administration...... 10,000
James D. H. Reefer, Kansas City, Missouri
114 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, and
for sociology support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 10,317
Schlumberger Foundation, Inc., New York New York
for the Schlumberger Foundation Collegiate Scholarship in the
College  of Engineering.................................................  6,000
William D. Schwalbe, Clarkston
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................... 7,000
Herbert Sloan, Jr., Trust
for the Doris Sloan Memorial Fund in the Museum of Art.................. 10,000
Ruth D. Smith Estate
for support in the Medical School...................................... 124,728
SmithKline Beecham Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for employee matching  gifts.............................................  5,833
J. M. Smucker Company, Orrville, Ohio
for the J. M. Smucker Company Dean's Merit Scholarship in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 5,000
Stephan G. Solomon, Scarsdale, New York
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 6,000
104




October Meeting, 1998


Sonkin Family Foundation, West Bloomfield
for support in the School of Dentistry....................................  5,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education.................................  130,600
Robert Stiber, Vail, Colorado
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 12,500
Mary L. Stoll Estate
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund........................... 6,823
Strategic Property Services Inc. Royal Oak
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Frances T. Stutzman Wilmette, Illinois
for support in the School of.Education....................................  5,000
King C. Stutzman, Wilmette, Illinois
for scholarships in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning........... 5,000
Sudwest LB, Mannheim, Germany
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 5,000
Edward Surovell Company/Realtors, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.......................................  9,250
A. Alfred Taubman Restated Revocable Trust
for the Alfred Taubman Scholarship.....................................  52,141
Temple Israel, West Bloomfield
for the Evan Shapiro Memorial Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center..... 10,000
Toledo Hospital, Toledo, Ohio
for the Caroline B. Jobst Laboratory Fund in the Medical School........... 170,000
Torrey Foundation, Del Mar, California
for the Research in Optical Sciences Fund in the College of Engineering...... 19,267
Union Pacific Foundation, Omaha, Nebraska
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.................... 5,000
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor Scholarship............... 7,500
University of Michigan Club of Greater Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the University of Michigan Club of Philadelphia Scholarship.............. 5,100
University Renal Research & Education Association, Ann Arbor
for the Richard G. Cornell Scholarship in the School of Public Health......... 8,000
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 5,000
D. Craig Valassis, Orchard Lake
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School...... 5,000
Hratch Vartanian, West Bloomfield
for Armenian Studies support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 10,000
Michael A. Vlasic, Bloomfield Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund.......................... 10,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy............. 42,500
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts............................................  10,487
MacEachern and Frances Watterworth Trust
for support in the School of Nursing, and for scholarships in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................  10,000
Webb Foundation, La Jolla, California
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the National Pollution Prevention Center and the Transition
for the Center for Sustainable Systems Fund in the School of Natural
Resources and Environment...........................................   32,500
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for support in the College of Engineering................................  10,606
Wolverine Temporaries, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society......................................  10,000
The following non-monetary gifts in kind were received:
Christopher W. Ford, Leonard
a Core-vent implant system for the Graduate Periodontic Clinic
Helen Mendelson Kerwin, Southfield
a laser sailboat and sail for Camp Michigania
Mobil Technology Company, Paulsboro, New Jersey
two diesel engines and other equipment for the Department of Mechanical Engineering
and Applied Mechanics
105




October Meeting, 1998


Nancy S. Pickus, Saline
an Apple Powerbook 520c with software discs and related accessories
Regine Reynolds-Cornell, Decatur, Georgia
a Shamisen Japanese long-necked Rute and a Japanese ceremonial drum for the School
of Music
SPS Technologies, Salt Lake City, Utah
four lots of various NAS titanium fasteners for the Solar Car Project
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Fleming Creek Advisory Council,- Ann Arbor
Patricia P. McFadden, Ann Arbor
Douglas H. Roehm, Rochester Hills
Personnel Actions.        Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted a
number of personnel actions and personnel reports on behalf of Provost
Cantor. He noted that Professor Gary Olson has been appointed interim
dean of the School of Information. Vice President Neidhardt called attention
to the appointment of James L. M. Ferrara in the Medical School.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Ferrara, James L. M., M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, Medical School, November 1, 1998
Ulrich, Dale, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, January 1, 1999
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1998
Drake, R. Paul, Ph.D., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, College of
Engineering
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1998
Fisk, Lennard A., Chair, Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, College
of Engineering, three year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Eccles, Jacquelynne S., Interim Chair, Department of Psychology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, one year term, September 1, 1998
Feigal, Robert J., Interim Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Dentistry, one year
term, October 1, 1998
Olson, Gary M., Interim Dean, School of Information, September 23, 1998


106




October Meeting, 1998


Thomas, Thelma K., Associate Dean for Humanities and the Humanistic Social Sciences,
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, three year eight month term,
January 1, 1999
Ulsoy, A. Galip, Chair, Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
College of Engineering, five year term, September 1, 1998
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Levinson, Marjorie, Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor and Professor of English, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, personal leave
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing Professorships
Henry Ruppenthal Family Professorship in Orthopaedic Surgery and Bioengineering,
Medical School, five year renewal term, October 16, 1998
Richard H. Kingery Endowed Collegiate Professorship in Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
three to five year renewable term, October 1, 1998
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Reappointment to Professorship
Ulsoy, A. Galip, William Clay Ford Professor of Manufacturing, College of Engineering, five
year term, September 1, 1998
Other Transactions
Pender, Nola J., from Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Research to Associate Dean
for Research, School of Nursing, October 1, 1998
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Distinguished Alumni Service Award Selection Committee
Hanson, Charlotte M., July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999, vice Gloria J. Jeff, term expired
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Varner, Nellie M., alumna representative, July 1, 1998-June 30, 2000, vice Leslie M.
Lazzerin, term expired
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Deskins, Donald R., Jr., July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999, vice Billy Joe Evans, sabbatical leave
Division of Kinesiology Executive Committee
Gross, M. Melissa, September 1-December 31, 1998, vice Bruce A. Watkins, unable to serve
Gross, M. Melissa, January 1-June 30, 1999, vice Victor L. Katch, sabbatical leave
UM-Dearborn School of Education Executive Committee
Moyer, Richard H., September 1, 1998-August 31, 2001, vice Belinda D. Lazarus, term
expired
Personnel reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:


107




October Meeting, 1998


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Aaron, Melissa D., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2000
Aitken, Maureen T.,M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2000
Aldridge, Andrew M., M.B.Ch.B., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, Medical School,
September 1, 1998-August 31, 1999
Bailey, Amanda, Ph.D., Lecturer-I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Barndt, Kerstin, M.A., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Basu, Saugata, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001
Belorousski, Pavel, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31. 2001
Ben-Ari, Sigalit, Lecturer II in Hebrew Language, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Berggren, Anne G., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Berlin, Meryl, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1998
Boisseron, Benedicte M., M.A., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Brent, Elizabeth S., Ph.D., Lecturer II in American Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Broadbridge, Edward J., M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Bucher, Stephan, Lic.Phil., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Buchs, Arnaud O., D.E.A., Lecturer II in French, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Burstein, Miriam E., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2000
Campbell, Scott D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Urban Planning, College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2002
Carvajal, Alicia, M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Cerpa-Gomez, Zandra T., M.Ed., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Chimbayo, Alexander, M.S., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Chou-vonmeister, Yen-Ling, M.A., Lecturer II in Chinese, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Cinti, Sandro K., M.D., Lecturer I in Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 10, 1998 -August 9, 1999
Colson, James D., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Anesthesiology, Medical School, October 1, 1998 -August 31, 1999
Conti, Ralph S., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Crisco, Rachel A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1998
Daniels, Yolande J., M.S., Assistant Professor of Architecture, College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2002
Davis, James A., M.S., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1998
de la Parra, Carlos, Bach.Eng., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering,
September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Diaz-Vidal, Jesus, Licenciatura, Lecturer II in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999


108




October Meeting, 1998


Dohm-Palmer, Robbie C., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Dreiser, Petra, M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2000
Echandi, Gloriana, M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Edmonds, Philip B., Cand.Phil., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Edwards, Tracy A., M.A., Lecturer I in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Ekida, Fusae, M.A., Lecturer II in Japanese, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Eklov, Brian M., B.S., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1998
Emerton, Matthew J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001
Ericksson, Johanna U., M.A., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Femino, John E., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, August 24, 1998-August 23, 1999
Fenno, J. Christopher, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
September 1, 1998-August 31, 2001
Fernandez-Garcia, Joseluis, B.A., Lecturer in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Flackett, Jennifer A., B.A., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Gemeda, Guluma, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of African American Studies, UM Flint College
of Arts and Sciences, September 1-December 31, 1998
Granier, Aude M., M.A., Lecturer II in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Guerrero-Kees, Oscar G., B.A., Lecturer I in Political Science, Residential College, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Gutman, Leslie M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology and Lecturer I in English, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Haniff, Nesha, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Harris-Reid, Michelle A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Hayashi, Takahiko, M.E.S., Lecturer III in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-June 30, 2001
Henkin, Joshua, M.F.A., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Holmes, Colin, B.Sc., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1998-December 31, 1998
Holowchak, Mark A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Iwamoto, Lisa M., M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2000
Jackson, Phoebe S., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 13, 2000
Kapetan, Michael R., M.F.A., Lecturer in Art and Design, School of Art and Design,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 2000
Kelly, Patricia L., M.S.E., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Kineke, Sheila A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Kintner, Eileen K., Ph.D., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 1998 -May 31, 1999
Kurganov, Alexander, M.Sc., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001
Lake, Kathleen, Pharm.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine and Lecturer in Surgery, Medical
School, September 14, 1998-September 13, 1999
Latham, Michael R., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998


109




October Meeting, 1998


Levin, Mark, B.A., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Lupton, James H., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1998
Maienhofer, Dirk R., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Malone, Paula A., M.A., Lecturer II in Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Mardon, Mary T., M.A., Lecturer I in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Mathur, Saloni, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Moran, John V., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Human Genetics and Assistant Professor of
Internal Medicine, Medical School, October 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Morgan, Eileen M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2000
Mukherjee, Srilata, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 2000
Murphy, Hedwig S., M.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School,
November 12, 1997-November 11, 1998
O'Keefe, Vincent A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2000
Ofstedal, Mary B., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Oh, Kyung, B.S., Lecturer II in Korean, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Okada, Craig, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 1998-August 30, 1999
Palaich, Sandra, M.A., Lecturer I in Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1998
Palmer, Stephanie C., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Patterson, Martha H., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2000
Pepper, John W., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Petterson, Kristine M., M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Piccoli, Sonia, B.A., Lecturer I in Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Ponyicsanyi, John V., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,1 998-April 30, 1999
Proops, Ian N., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001
Ritter, Kelly A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2000
Roth, Michael A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001
Sanchez, Maria V., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Schoenfisch, Mark H., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Scott, Craig B., M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2000
Sharp, Michelle L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology and Lecturer I, English Composition
Board, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Shreve, Porter G., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30,. 1999
Sierraalta, Marianella, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, September 1, 1998 -August 31, 1999
Smith, Neil D., M.A., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, September 1 -December 31, 1998
Sofer, Andrew, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999


110




October Meeting, 1998


Sunstein, Paul W., M.A., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Swallen, Karen C., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Swartz, Christine L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology and Lecturer I, English Composition
Board, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Thompson, Gregory B., Jr., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, September 1, 1998 -August 31, 1999
Vassiliadou, Sophia, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2000
Vivian, Jeffrey A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Walls, Joseph G., Ph,.D., Lecturer in Computer and Information Systems, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 1998-August 31, 2001
Walsh, Lisa K., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Walton, Edward A., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, Medical School, September 1, 1998 -June 30, 1999
Wat, Albert Y., M.A., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 1998
Watkins, Donald C., B.A., Lecturer in Theatre and Drama, School of Music, September 1, 1998 -May 31, 1999
Weber, Brenda R., M.Lit., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Weiss, Matthias M., Diploma, Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Wertenberger, Iwona M., B.Arch., Lecturer II in Polish Language and Culture, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Yellen, Elizabeth S., Ph.D., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Yokoyama, Shigeru, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Young, John K., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 2000
Zambrano, Marjorie J., B.A., Lecturer II in Spanish, Residential College, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Zenkov, Dmitry, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates Indicated
Fluent, Thomas E., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry, Medical School, August 1, 1998 -July 31, 1999 (previously reported as Lecturer in Psychiatry)
Gee, Gilbert C., Assistant Professor of Health Care, UM-Flint School of Health Professions
and Studies, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2002 (previously reported as Lecturer in
Health Care)
Gomez, Carlen A., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30, 2000 (previously reported as Lecturer in
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases)
Mehta, Rajendra H., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 1998-June 30, 2001 (previously reported as Lecturer in Internal Medicine)
Mitchell, Michele, Assistant Professor of History and Assistant Professor of Afroamerican
and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998 -May 31, 2001 (previously reported as Instructor of History and Instructor in
Afroamerican and African studies)
Suarez, Lucia M., Instructor in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001 (previously reported as Assistant Professor of
Spanish)


111




October Meeting, 1998


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Clark, Rex, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of German, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Roebuck, Michael D., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, Medical School,
September 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Russell, Mark W. W., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School, August 1, 1998-July 31, 2000
Solon, Gary R., from Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure,
School of Public Policy, to Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 1, 1998
Temple, Henry J., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry, August 1, 1998-July 31, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Becker, Marvin B., Professor Emeritus of History, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Buning, Harm, Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1-December 31, 1998
Castelli, Walter A., Professor Emeritus of Anatomy and Cell Biology, September 1, 1998 -August 31, 1999
Curl, Rane L., Professor Emeritus of Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1-December 31, 1998
Gold, Martin, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, September 1-December 31, 1998
Hawkins, Joseph E., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Physiological Acoustics, September 1, 1998 -August 31, 1999
Huelke, Donald F., Professor Emeritus of Anatomy, Medical School, appointed to the
University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute, September 1, 1998 -February 28, 1999
Jackson, Murray E., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, appointed
to the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Kammash, Terry, Stephen S. Attwood Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of
Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of Engineering, September
1-December 31, 1998
Klein, Bernard W., Professor Emeritus of Political Science and Professor Emeritus of Public
Administration, UM-Dearborn, September 1-December 31, 1998
Kornblum, Sylvan, Professor Emeritus of Psychology in Psychiatry, Medical School, and
Professor Emeritus of Psychology in Psychiatry, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, reappointed to the Medical School, December 1, 1998-November 30, 1999
Livermore, Shaw, jr., Professor Emeritus of History, September 1-December 31, 1998
Mann, Richard D., Professor Emeritus of Psychology and Professor Emeritus of Religion,
September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Messiter, Arthur F., Jr., Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Professor Emeritus of Aerospace
Engineering and Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1-December 31, 1998
Murphey, Rhoads, Professor Emeritus of History, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Palmer, Warren G., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, and
Associate Professor Emeritus of Library Science, School of Information, appointed to
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 198
Schmerl, Rudolf B., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education,
appointed to the College of Engineering, September 1- December 31, 1998
Shafter, Edward M., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Humanities, College of Engineering, appointed
to the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998


112




October Meeting, 1998


Steinhoff, William R., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Sullivan, Joseph E., Associate Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Weber, Wendell W., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, March 1-July 31, 1998
Weisfeld, Zelma H., Professor Emeritus of Theatre and Drama, September 1-December 31, 1998
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Allen, Layman E., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1999
Alvarez, Jose E., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, outside teaching leave,
September 1-December 31, 1998
Angur, Madhukar G., Associate Professor of Marketing with tenure, UM-Flint School of
Management, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Bean, Michael A., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, research leave, September 1, 1998- May 31, 1999
Coffey, John T., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 1999
Cooper, Frederick, Charles Gibson Collegiate Professor of History, Professor of
History, with tenure, and Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1998
Dandekar, Hemalata, Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, administrative leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Dowling, Catherine A., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School,
personal leave, September 1-November 30, 1998
Evans, Billy J., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Farrand, William R., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, Director, Exhibit
Museum, and Curator, Museum of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, retirement furlough (phased), September 23, 1998-June 30, 2000
Flanigan, Larry K., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, College of Engineering, extended sick leave, September 22-December 31, 1998
Gardner, Catherine H. V., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, research leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Getty, Ward D., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 1999
Gitelman, Zvi Y., Preston R. Tisch Professor of Judaic Studies and Professor of Political
Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1998, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1999
Goldstein, Irwin J., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, and Associate Dean for
Research and Graduate Studies, Medical School, retirement furlough, September 1, 1998 -August 31, 1999
Gurevich, Yuri, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Harlow, Sioban D., Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Hell, Julia C., Associate Professor of German, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1999
Hero, Alfred O., III, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
and Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
House, James S., Director, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research, and
Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Israel, Ronen, Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure, School of Business
Administration, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Ito, Ken K., Associate Professor of Japanese Language and Literature, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999


113




October Meeting, 1998


Jackson, Sherman A., Associate Professor of Near Eastern Studies, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1998
Kowal, Lubomyr M., Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 1999
Kshirsagar, Anant M., Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health,
extended sick leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Little, Roderick J., Chair and Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health,
and Professor of Statistics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave., September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
MacKinnon, Catharine A., Elizabeth A. Long Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with
tenure, Law School, outside teaching leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Malamud, Deborah C., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Miller, William I., Thomas G. Long Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Muir, Dana M., Assistant Professor of Business Law, School of Business Administration,
contract leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Mullaney, Steven G., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, extended sick leave, September 23-December 31, 1998
Murphey, Yi L., Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, UM-Dearborn School of Engineering, September 1-December 31, 1998
Nisbett, Richard E., Theodore M. Newcomb Distinguished University Professor of Psychology
and Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
O'Connor, Gerald A., Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure, Medical School,
retirement furlough (phased), July 1, 1998-June 30, 2000
Pildes, Richard H., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, outside teaching leave,
January 1-May 31, 1999
Provost, Consuela M., Professor of English and Theatre, with tenure, UM-Flint College of
Arts and Sciences, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 1999
Rast, Hubert, Assistant Professor of German, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1999
Reagan, Donald H., William W. Bishop Jr. Collegiate Professor of Law and Professor of Law,
with tenure, Law School, and Professor of Philosophy, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Rubin, Jonathan M., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1998-January 31, 1999
Serwer, Gerald A., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
Medical School, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 1999
Shatz, Marilyn J., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Director, Program in
Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1998, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1999
Singh, Jasprit, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Steinmetz, George P., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of German Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, January 1-May 31, 1999
Waggoner, Lawrence W., Lewis M. Simes Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with
tenure, Law School, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
White, James J., Louis and Myrtle Moskowitz Research Professor of Business and Law,
Robert A. Sullivan Professor of Law, and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School,
outside teaching leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Wright, Susan P., Lecturer III in History of Science, Residential College, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
CANCELLATIONS OF
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Chupp, Timothy E., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998, sabbatical leave canceled
McDougal, Stuart Y., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and
Professor of Comparative Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1997, sabbatical leave canceled


114




October Meeting, 1998


TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Deceased
Albright, William H., Professor of Music (Composition), with tenure, School of Music,
September 17, 1998
Resigned
Brechtelsbauer, Paul B., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Brewer, Garry D., Professor of Resource and Public Policy, with tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, and Professor of Business Administration, without
tenure, School of Business Administration, September 30, 1998
Mead, Maureen C., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, Medical School, October 1, 1998
Michaels, Andrew J., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 31, 1998
Pu, Anthony T., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, resigned, Medical School, August 31, 1998
Sepanski, Jungsyway H., Assistant Professor of Statistics and Management Science, School
of Business Administration, May 31, 1998
Retired
Gomberg, Edith S., Professor of Psychology, without tenure, Medical School, August 31, 1998
Term Completed
Adler, Susan M., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
May 31, 1998,
Chaffee, Bruce W., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy,
August 31, 1998
Fitzpatrick, David J., Lecturer II in History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Gabel, Susan L., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
May 31, 1998
Livingstone, Frank B., Professor Emeritus of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Myers, Eric A., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1997
Plat, Noelle, Lecturer II in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1998
Soper, Christine, Lecturer II in Pedadogy Polish Language, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Tupac, Kerianne M., Lecturer in Theatre, School of Music, May 31, 1998
Wolfe, Thomas C., Lecturer II in Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, June 30, 1998
Retirement Memoirs.         One retirement memoir was submitted for
adoption.
Stuart Y. McDougal, professor of English language and literature and
professor of comparative literature, retired from active faculty status on
June 30, 1998.
Professor McDougal received his B.A. degree from Haverford College in
1964 and his B.A. and M.A. degrees from the University of Pennsylvania in
1965 and 1970, respectively. From 1970-72, he was an assistant professor at
Michigan State University. He came to the University of Michigan in 1972 as
an assistant professor and was promoted to associate professor in 1975 and
professor in 1986. His interests clustered in three areas: American literature,
comparative literature, and film.
Professor McDougal's first book, Ezra Pound and the Troubadour
Tradition (1972), established his reputation as a leading scholar of twentieth
century American poetry in a historical and comparative context. He
continued that work in the edited collection of essays Dante Among the
Moderns (1985), as well as in a series of articles and reviews. In time, his
interests shifted more toward film      and the relation between film      and


115




October Meeting, 1998


literature. He produced the influential textbook Made Into Movies: From
Literature To Film (1985), which has gone through five printings so far, along
with the edited collections Play It Again Sam: Retakes On Cinematic
Remakes (1998) and Stanley Kubrick's A Clockwork Orange (forthcoming).
From 1981-97, Professor McDougal also directed the Program in
Comparative Literature. Under his leadership, the program improved both its
curricular coherence and its national visibility. Those accomplishments were
reflected in his election as secretary-treasurer (1983), vice-president (1989),
and president (1991) of the American Comparative Literature Association.
He also served on other boards and committees both inside and outside the
University and received a number of University awards, including a faculty
recognition award in 1986. A devoted teacher, he capably introduced students
both to a wide variety of literatures and to an equally wide variety of
approaches to understanding them. He also directed or served on numerous
dissertation committees.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Stuart Y.
McDougal professor emeritus of English language and literature and
professor emeritus of comparative literature.
Memorials. Memorials for three deceased faculty members were
submitted for adoption. Regent McGowan noted that Professor William
Albright was an inestimable asset to the University and remains beloved by
his students.
William Albright, professor of music (composition), died in Ann Arbor
on September 17, 1998. Born in Gary, Indiana, in 1944, he attended the
Eastman School of Music of the University of Rochester but soon transferred
to the University of Michigan, where he received three degrees in music
composition and in organ performance. He remained at the University as a
faculty member for 28 years following his graduation.
He was a widely performed composer of music for practically every
instrumental and vocal medium, including electronic music. His works have
been performed by many symphony orchestras, including those of Bergen,
Budapest, Buffalo, Detroit, and Kiev, as well as the Austrian Radio Orchestra
and the St. Paul Chamber Orchestra. However, he was probably best known
as a composer of keyboard works. A brilliant organist, he appeared in
concerts throughout Europe, Canada, and the United States as a performer
whose specialty was recent music for the organ. He premiered more than
thirty new American and European works for that instrument.
William Albright was the recipient of numerous commissions and awards,
including the Queen Marie-Jose Prize, an award from the American Academy
of Arts and Letters, two Fulbright and two Guggenheim fellowships, the
Symphonic Composition Award of Niagara University, two National
Endowment for the Arts grants, two Koussevitzky Competition awards, an
award from the Fromm Music Foundation of Harvard University, and most
recently, an American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers
(ASCAP) Award. In 1979, he was composer-in-residence at the American
Academy in Rome; in 1993, he was honored with the Composer of the Year
Award from the American Guild of Organists; and in 1995, he won the Roger
Wagner Center for Choral Studies Competition. From the University, he


116




October Meeting, 1998


received a Distinguished Service Award, a Faculty Recognition Award, and
numerous subventions for research and creative activity.
As the Regents mourn the death of William Albright, they send sincere
condolences to his son, John Kirk Albright, of Ypsilanti; his daughter,
Elizabeth Mae Albright, of Chicago; and his two brothers, John and Richard.
The discipline of anthropology and the profession of social work lost a
unique presence and a beloved colleague with the death from cancer of
Sharon Stephens, Ph.D., on June 17, 1998, at the age of 46. Born in
Walla Walla, Washington and educated in the Seattle area, Professor
Stephens was both an undergraduate and graduate student at the University
of Chicago, where she received her Ph.D. degree in anthropology in 1984.
After teaching at The Johns Hopkins University, she became an assistant
professor of anthropology at the University of Chicago, where she taught
from 1987-93. Taking a position at the Norwegian Centre for Child Research
in Trondheim, Norway, in 1993, Professor Stephens subsequently joined the
faculty of the University of Michigan in 1995 as an assistant professor of
anthropology and assistant professor of social work.
A foremost ethnographer of the northern Scandinavian Sami (Lapps),
Professor Stephens devoted her early work to exploring the articulation of
systemic cultural transformations with historical transitions in Sami
economic orders. This mode of analysis was exemplified in her "Ideology and
Everyday Life in Sami (Lapp) History" (1986) which questioned the wisdom
of making unmediated connections between preconceived realms of material
practice and ideological structure. The Chernobyl reactor accident in April
1986 catastrophically transformed Sami life, however, and its aftereffects
increasingly compelled Professor Stephens to participate in public
intellectual life.
While pursuing a range of scholarly activities, she also wrote a series of
articles on Chernobyl and the Sami for such publications as Natural History,
Not Man Apart (Friends of the Earth), and Cultural Survival Quarterly; her
engagement with environmental issues intensified when she joined the
Norwegian Centre for Child Research in 1993. As director of the Centre's
International Children and Environment Program, Professor Stephens
organized and facilitated a remarkable number of major international
conferences on children in a global context. Many of these symposia focused
on documenting the effect of radiation on the lives of children throughout
the world, and her work on this subject will be published posthumously.
Professor Stephens' scholarship broke completely new ground in what is
still the nascent field of the anthropology of children. Recognizing that
children constitute yet another realm of difference and marginality,
Professor Stephens devoted her considerable political and intellectual
energies to thinking about children and the risks they both face and signify
in the late twentieth century. Indeed, her edited volume Children and the
Politics of Culture (1996) has become the standard collection in this area,
and her lengthy introductory essay, "Children and the Politics of Culture in
'Late Capitalism'," is exemplary for its synthesizing vision and its
ever-thoughtful questioning of the categories-of politics, of culture, of "the
child" itself-that make up the received landscape of social scientific work on
children.


117




October Meeting, 1998


Professor Stephens was continuing her important work on children at
the University of Michigan and was actively involved in a long-term research
project on the internationalization of child research. In keeping with her
idea of making a difference, she created and taught a class on environmental
justice and social welfare in the School of Social Work. She was known by
her students as the most generous and caring of teachers. For all who knew
Sharon Stephens, her singular qualities of mind, extraordinary integrity, and
deep compassion make her utterly irreplaceable.
As we mourn the loss of this exceptional scholar and educator, our
condolences go to her daughter, Kaisa Talaga; her mother, Elizabeth Schulz;
and her sister, Jimi Norton.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound
sadness the death on July 26, 1998, of Reinhard H. Thum, Ph.D.,
professor of German at the University of Michigan- Flint. He died while
traveling in Germany and Austria.
Professor Thum was born in Volklingen, Germany, on February 13, 1937.
He received honors B.A. and M.A. degrees in German, in 1965 and 1967,
respectively, from Queen's University in Canada. He completed his Ph.D.
degree in French and German literature in 1973, also through Queen's
University.
After teaching high school in Canada for two years, in 1970 Professor
Thum joined the faculty of the University of Michigan-Flint. Professor
Thum loved teaching and taught numerous courses in French, German, and
comparative literature over the years. Because Professor Thum's life and
energies were dedicated to students and teaching, his family has asked that
memorial contributions be designated for a scholarship to be established in
his name.
Professor Thum was also actively engaged in service to the University.
He served on numerous committees, including the Academic Standards
Committee and the University Senate on the Ann Arbor campus. Dedicated
to study, research, and writing, he presented more than 35 papers at
professional conferences, was active as chair and vice chair of the German
Section of the Michigan Academy, and had numerous publications in
respected journals. His book on the image of the city in late nineteenth
century French poetry received high praise from reviewers.
His colleagues will long remember Professor Thum for his dry wit, his
sense of justice, and his many contributions to the University. As we mourn
his loss, our condolences go to his wife, Maureen Thum, who is a lecturer in
English at the University of Michigan-Flint, and to his daughters, Johanna
and Angela.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Newman,
seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the
Consent Agenda.
Horace H. Rackham Educational Memorial Building - Detroit
In response to a request at the last Regents' meeting, Executive Vice
President Kasdin submitted information about the University's affiliation


118




October Meeting, 1998


with the Horace H. Rackham Educational Memorial Building in Detroit. He
noted that this building, which reflects the University's physical presence in
Detroit, also raises the issue of the University's relationship with Detroit.
He called on Vice President Wilbanks to address this issue.
Vice President Wilbanks distributed a booklet entitled "U of M  in
Detroit" which lists University activities and programs that are currently
ongoing in Detroit. She pointed out that these programs, undertaken by
faculty and students on the Dearborn and Ann Arbor campuses, provide the
dynamic of the University's relationship with Detroit. She said that copies of
this publication are currently being mailed to various organizations and
individuals around the state, including alumni clubs. Regent McFee observed
that she believed it was important to involve the alumni clubs in these
efforts.
109 E. Madison Street, Ann Arbor
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents unanimously approved offering for sale the property at 109 E.
Madison Street in Ann Arbor at a minimum bid of $1,400,000.
115 Zina Pitcher Place
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved acquisition of the property at 115 Zina Pitcher
Place at a price of $740,000, as described in the Regents Communication.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Renovation
and Expansion of the Emergency Department
The Regents received for review a list of design objectives for the
Emergency Department Renovation and Expansion Project.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and T/J
Technologies, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved an agreement between the University of
Michigan and T/J Technologies, Inc. (T/J Technologies). Because the chief
executive officer of T/J Technologies, Levi T. Thompson, is also a University
of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and T/J Technologies.
2.  Terms of the agreement are the issuance of a purchase order by T/J
Technologies for billing purposes only. The period of performance will be
two years at a total cost of $40,000.
3.  Professor Thompson's pecuniary interest arises from his position as chief
executive officer of T/J Technologies and his ownership of 27 percent of the
company's stock.


119




October Meeting, 1998


Revision of Regents' Bylaw 6.02 and Creation of New Bylaw 11.073
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Taylor, the
Regents unanimously approved creation of new Bylaw Section 11.073
regarding the University of Michigan-Flint School of Education and Human
Services Executive Committee and revision of Bylaw Section 6.02 (Degree
Program Definitions) to add the University of Michigan-Flint School of
Education and Human Services.
The following is the text of the new bylaw section 11.073:
Sec. 11.073. The University of Michigan-Flint School of Education
and Human Services Executive Committee
The executive committee shall consist of the dean and four full-time members
of the governing faculty of senate rank, each to be appointed for a two-year term by
the Regents on recommendation by the president. The members of the committee
should be broadly representative to include members from each department in the
school and shall not be eligible for reappointment until after the lapse of one year.
The terms shall be adjusted so that two vacancies shall occur each year. The dean
shall chair the committee.
The revised bylaw section 6.02 reads as follows:
Sec. 6.02.  Degree Program Definitions (additions underlined)
Undergraduate degree programs are offered by:
The University of Michigan (Ann Arbor Campus)
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
School of Art and Design
School of Business Administration
School of Dentistry
School of Education
College of Engineering
Division of Kinesiology
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
School of Music
School of Natural Resources and Environment
School of Nursing
College of Pharmacy
The University of Michigan-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
School of Education
School of Engineering
School of Management
The University of Michigan-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences
School of Health Professions and Studies
School of Management
School of Education and Human Services
Graduate degree programs are offered by the schools and colleges on all three
campuses through the agency of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies, leading to the master's, doctoral, and related degrees. In addition, the
College of Architecture and Urban Planning, the School of Business
Administration, the School of Health Professions and Studies, the School of
Natural Resources and Environment, and the Schools of Management at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn and at the University of Michigan-Flint, and the
School of Education and Human Services at the University of Michigan-Flint are
authorized to offer the master's degree in appropriate professional fields and the
School of Music, the master's degree in applied music.
Graduate professional degree programs are offered by the:


120




October Meeting, 1998


School of Dentistry    College of Pharmacy
Law School             School of Public Health
Medical School         School of Social Work
Revision of Regents' Bylaw 11.18
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved a revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 11.18
regarding the College of Pharmacy Executive Committee. The revised bylaw
follows:
Sec. 11.18.  The College of Pharmacy: Executive Committee
Membership. The executive committee will consist of the dean of the college,
ex officio, four members of the governing faculty, each representing one of the
following disciplines:
1. Medicinal Chemistry
2. Pharmaceutics
3. Pharmacy Administration
4. Pharmacy Practice
and a nonvoting representative (of the professorial ranks) of the clinical track II
faculty. These five members shall be elected by the professorial faculty of their
representative disciplines and subsequently appointed by the Board of Regents on
recommendation by the president. The appointed members will not be eligible for
nomination and reappointment until one year has lapsed after the completion of a
term in office. The terms will be for three years and will be adjusted so that no
more than two will expire in any give year. Assistant and/or associate deans of the
college may serve ex officio, without vote, upon recommendation by the chair and
confirmation by unanimous vote of the committee. Their terms of office shall be for
one year but may be renewed each year.
Regent Power noted that Vice President Wilbanks and Vice President
and Secretary Tedesco were attending their first Regents' Meeting in Ann
Arbor and welcomed them to the table.
MSA Monthly Report. Mr. Trent Thompson, president of Michigan
Student Assembly, distributed copies of the MSA monthly report.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. Regents'
expenses for September 1998 were not available. The next meeting is
scheduled for November 19-20, 1998.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and
Secretary of the University


121




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1998


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, November 19, 1998
The Regents convened at 1:45 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman,
and Power. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Vice
President Hartford, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Vice President
Neidhardt, Executive Vice President Omenn, Chancellor Renick, Interim
Chancellor Schmoll, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, and Vice
President Wilbanks. Regent Deitch arrived shortly after the start of the
meeting and Vice President and General Counsel Krislov arrived at 2:20 p.m.
Regents McFee and Taylor were absent.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and introduced
Regent-Elect Katherine A. White, who was in the audience. He then called
on Provost Cantor to present the FY 2000 funding request to the state.
FY 2000 Annual State Funding Request, Ann Arbor Campus
Provost Cantor reviewed the three understandings that undergird the
University's budget assumptions: maintaining a superb faculty; maintaining
strong libraries, museums, and other institutions that support shared public
culture; and creating the richest possible learning environments. She then
described how last year's budget increase was used to address these goals.
Provost Cantor reported that the schools and colleges were able to offer
four-five percent faculty salary programs, which enabled them to retain and
recruit important faculty members and to be proactive in demonstrating to
faculty that salary issues are important. In addition to salary increases, the
additional funds helped to establish new faculty positions.
With regard to the shared public culture, there was a substantial
increase in the general library budget and in the budget for the digital
library project. In the classroom area, a number of proposals in a wide array
of disciplines have been received for use of the LSA technology fee, and other
schools and colleges have also developed innovative programs with their
increased funding for instructional technology.
Provost Cantor noted that a Diversity Theme Semester had been
organized for the Winter 1999 semester, including over 100 courses. In
addition, changes are being made in the undergraduate curriculum and new
living/learning environments and communities are being created. She also
reviewed a number of new programs that have been established in the schools
and colleges as a result of the budget approved by the Regents last fall.
Provost Cantor concluded that "superb work is happening routinely" in
the academic life of the institution, and that state funding makes important
contributions to this work. The request for a five percent increase in
appropriations ($16.2 million) will enable the University to continue meeting


123




November Meeting, 1998


the ever-expanding needs and expectations of students without putting
excessive pressure on tuition. Funding for two specific initiatives is also
being requested: increasing the number of learning communities ($2.0
million) and continuing the work of the life sciences commission, which will
enhance discovery of new knowledge, technology development and connect
basic science to the applications of interest to the state, with Michigan State
University, Wayne State University, and the State of Michigan as
collaborative partners ($4.0 million).
UM-Dearborn 1999-2000 General Fund Budget Request
Chancellor Renick noted that the Dearborn campus' request is a
continuation of a multi-year strategy with the goal of providing accessible
education of the highest possible quality to commuting students in southeast
Michigan. He observed that because the Dearborn Campus is still developing
and evolving, it has special needs in the areas of physical infrastructure,
programs, and personnel, especially for faculty in the arts and sciences and
the professional schools.
He pointed out that individual units were required to reallocate three
percent of their budgets prior to setting last year's budget. The 1999-2000
request reflects the need for funds to support the operating costs of new
buildings, to improve the information technology infrastructure, and to fund
faculty positions in high demand areas. In summary, the Dearborn campus
is requesting a funding increase of $4,348,000 to meet its most critical needs.
1999-2000 Budget Request, University of Michigan-Flint
Interim Chancellor Schmoll reported that there are four goals driving
the budget request: the desire to provide       professional programs responsive
to the interests and needs of students; full implementation of the academic
plan; the creation of a technological environment that will prepare students
for a changing future; and continued enhancement of the campus'
connections to the community so as to be able to match faculty expertise and
interests with community needs and interests.
The budget request consists of five components: 1) an increase in basic
operating expenses ($800,000); 2) providing funding for programs and
associated technology to be housed in the new Professional Studies and
Classroom Building ($600,000); 3) enhancing technology in order to increase
access on campus ($300,000); 4) equipment maintenance, repair, and
replacement ($150,000); and 5) operating funds associated with the opening
of the new Professional Studies and Classroom Building ($700,000).
President Bollinger observed that while the University is doing the best
possible job in teaching, research, and public service with existing resources,
private universities have extraordinary resources compared with those
available for public universities. For this reason, the state funding requests
are very important.
There being no further discussion, Regent McGowan moved approval of
the 1999-2000 state budget requests for the Ann Arbor, Dearborn, and Flint


124




November Meeting, 1998


campuses. Regent Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Research and Scholarly Activity, FY 1998: Disciplines and Intersections
Vice President Neidhardt reported that the University of Michigan was
number one among all universities in research expenditures in FY 1998.
Research expenditures totaled $491.5 million, a 7.2 percent increase over the
previous year.
Vice President Neidhardt noted that one-third of the University's
research expenditures involve interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research.
This type of research is important because of the interest and excitement
generated for researchers and because it can lead additional unexpected
positive outcomes. This type of research also brings multiple disciplines
together, which is important because the solutions to virtually all societal
problems require multiple approaches.
Vice President Neidhardt then gave a presentation on two projects that
are illustrative of this type of research. The first example, from the sciences,
was for a project under the direction of Professor David Burke of the
Department of Human Genetics and colleagues in the Departments of Chemical
Engineering and Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. This project
led to the development of the "DNA-lab-on-a-chip," a miniature, hand-held
laboratory capable of performing DNA analyses. The second example, from
the arts, was a dance project titled "Seven Enigmas." This project represents
a collaboration of individuals from a number of different disciplines, including
space physics, mathematics, neuroscience, the visual arts, music, electronics,
video, and dance. It is a celebration of " some of the many possible responses
[of humans] in the face of incomprehensible mysteries and unreachable
knowledge."
Vice President Neidhardt concluded with a review of FY 1998 research
expenditures by various categories, including sponsor group, field of study,
and university unit, as detailed in the 1998 Office of the Vice President for
Research Report to the Regents distributed at the meeting. He observed
that there is an unprecedented level of verbal support for basic research in
Congress, with nearly all of the federal funding agencies receiving increased
appropriations for the current fiscal year. He cautioned, however, that
because the issue of growth in entitlement programs as a percentage of the
national budget has not yet been settled, the level of national support for
research in the future remains uncertain.
Regent Deitch thanked Vice President Neidhardt and others responsible
for the presentation. Noting that Vice President Neidhardt's term as vice
president would be concluding next month, he commented that the Regents
have greatly appreciated his tremendous service. Speaking to Vice President
Neidhardt, Regent Deitch said, "You epitomize the spirit of collegiality and
intellectual inquiry which we saw in the presentation today. You are a scholar,
a good University citizen, and a pleasant, grounded ethical gentleman, and
we have been graced by your presence."
A round of applause followed.
125




November Meeting, 1998


Regent Power observed that when the new budgeting system, originally
known as Value Centered Management, was implemented there was a
concern that the system would work against interdisciplinary research. As a
result, the system was revamped to respond to those concerns. He inquired
whether the budgeting system had adversely affected the amount of
interdisciplinary research on campus.
Vice President Neidhardt responded that there has been a "sea change"
this year due to actions taken by Provost Cantor and Associate Provost Paul
Courant, and as a result, the new budget system is working well and the
provost's office is being proactive in responding to remaining concerns.
Regent Power expressed the hope that the provost would report regularly in
the future on progress in this area. Vice President Neidhardt also noted that
the new reporting relationship between the provost and vice president for
research has made it much easier to work on budget matters with the
provost's office than had been the case previously.
Recommendations for Honorary Degrees
President Bollinger noted that two individuals had been recommended
to receive honorary degrees at the December 1998 commencement: David
DiChiera, performing arts impresario; and Chen Ning Yang, Nobel laureate
in physics.
Regent Maynard moved approval of the award of honorary degrees to
David DiChiera (Doctor of Music) and Chen Ning Yang (Doctor of Science).
Regent Horning seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
General Remarks: President Bollinger
President Bollinger reported on a number of recent honors, awards and
research discoveries involving University of Michigan faculty members.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Horning made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202 and 1996 PA 464, I move that the Board of Regents meet
in closed session on November 19, 1998, in the Regents' Room, for the
purpose of consulting with our attorney regarding trial or settlement
strategy in connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
A short recess followed, after which the Regents met in executive session
from 3:30 until 4:15 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the
topics indicated: Joe Sexauer, student, representing Students Organizing for
Labor and Economic Equality, on codes of conduct for manufacturers of
college apparel ("sweatshop" labor); Lee Schlesinger, staff member, on staff
relations, morale, and the Department of Human Resources and Affirmative


126




November Meeting, 1998


Action; Alice Hamele, citizen, on problems with medical care at the
University; and Norman Oleski and Barry D. Maus, staff members, on a
work grievance.
Regarding the comments of Mssrs. Oleski and Maus, Regent Deitch
requested that the appropriate members of Vice President Kasdin's staff
report on this situation by next month.
Friday, November 20, 1998
The Regents convened at 9:40 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman,
Power, and Taylor. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President
Feagin, Vice President Hartford, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Vice
President and General Counsel Krislov, Vice President Neidhardt, Executive
Vice President Omenn, Chancellor Renick, Interim Chancellor Schmoll, Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regents
Deitch and McFee were absent.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and noted that Regent
Elect David Brandon was in the audience to observe the meeting.
Change in Date of Meeting on Dearborn Campus
President Bollinger announced that the annual Regents' Meeting on the
Dearborn Campus would henceforth occur in May, rather than in March,
beginning in 1999.
Purchasing Initiatives
Executive Vice President Kasdin called on Mr. Phil Abruzzi, director of
purchasing and stores, and Kevin Donovan, business manager of the
purchasing department, to discuss ways in which the purchasing department
is taking advantage of economies of scale in purchasing on behalf of the
University through the Purchasing Services' Prime Vendor and Contract
Administration Programs.
Mr. Abruzzi noted that prime vendor contracting has resulted in annual
price savings of $4,725,000, the annual elimination of 81,425 orders and
407,000 invoices, and inventory reduction of $3,000,000. The goals of
Contract Administration are to identify opportunities to leverage the
University's purchasing power by developing contracts that meet the needs
of the units while reducing costs for the institution as a whole. Incentives
for the vendors are also incorporated into the programs.
Executive Vice President Kasdin pointed out that this presentation was
only meant to address the commodities area, but that there are other
programs, such as the Purchasing Card Program, that address other aspects
which will be described during future meetings.  He noted that the
commodities program is important because it has allowed savings in labor,
space, and inventory costs. Mr. Abruzzi commented that the Prime Vendor
Program also focuses on processing costs by identifying how costs and work
can be taken out of the system permanently.
127




November Meeting, 1998


Provost Cantor observed that this program has been extremely
beneficial for faculty and researchers.
Annual Report of the Senate Advisory Committee on University
Affairs (SACUA)
President Bollinger called on Professor William Ensminger, chair of
SACUA, to present the SACUA annual report.
Professor Ensminger reviewed the initiatives currently being engaged in
by SACUA. These include a discussion of the role of faculty in the student
admissions process by the Academic Affairs Advisory Committee; an attempt
to revitalize the Ombuds program to serve as a first step in conflict
resolution; and completion of the Faculty Handbook project. He also
expressed the faculty's approval of the president's decision to co-sponsor the
Academic Freedom Lectures.
Professor Ensminger reported that the increasing numbers of nontenure
track faculty is an area of significant concern to faculty. Another ongoing
faculty interest is undergraduate education.
Finally, Professor Ensminger expressed appreciation to the administration
for its sensitivity for preserving choices for health care. He also reported that
SACUA and the Senate Assembly believe that the University should divest
tobacco stocks.
President Bollinger thanked Professor Ensminger for the wonderful job he
has done as chair of SACUA. Regarding the issue of tobacco stock divestment,
he noted that the University is following the historical approach of raising
the issue in the community to determine whether it is considered to be of
sufficient magnitude that it should be brought before the Regents.
Biannual Report of Michigan Student Assembly (MSA)
President Bollinger called on Mr. Trent Thompson, president of MSA, to
present his biannual report.
Mr. Thompson thanked Vice Presidents Neidhardt and Hartford, Provost
Cantor, President Bollinger, and the general counsel's office for their recent
efforts on behalf of students. He then spoke on the importance of a trusting
relationship among students, Regents, and administrators, and shared some
examples of ongoing student-led activities and initiatives on campus. Mr.
Thompson concluded by describing four issues that MSA is currently addressing:
1) the need for students to sit on every major University committee; 2) the
problem of binge drinking among students; 3) examination of the structure of
MSA to see if change could make it a more effective organization; and 4) review
of the Code of Student Conduct.
Mr. Thompson then introduced Ms. Sarah Chopp, vice president of
MSA, who spoke to the Regents about academic integrity on campus. She
noted that each of the 19 schools and colleges has separate policies that
address academic integrity, even though all have a similar definition of what
constitutes ethical behavior. Ms. Chopp reported that a group of students
has been working with Vice President Hartford and other administrators in
128




November Meeting, 1998


cooperation with the schools and colleges to coordinate the various academic
integrity policies so that the issue of academic integrity can be moved to the
forefront. She concluded by asking the Regents for advice and support in
creating an ethical environment on campus.
Purchase Agreement with James and Laura Kosteva
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchase agreement with James and Laura Kosteva,
who had submitted the high bid for property located at 1000 Cedar Bend
Drive, Ann Arbor. Because James and Laura Kosteva are both employees of
the University of Michigan, this purchase agreement falls under the state of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the purchase agreement shall be the Regents of the University
of Michigan, as seller, and James and Laura Kosteva, as purchasers.
2.  The terms of the contract are for James and Laura Kosteva to purchase the
subject property from the University for $167,505, contingent upon Regents'
approval and conventional financing.
Purchasing Agreement with Life Support Services, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved a purchasing agreement with Life Support
Services, Inc., to provide training to University of Michigan satellite clinics.
Because a University of Michigan employee, Mary Berry-Bovia, is also a
partial owner of Life Support Services, Inc., this purchase agreement falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the University of
Michigan and Life Support Services, Inc.
2.  The terms of the purchase are to buy immediately personalized protocols
and training for medical emergencies at UM satellite clinics. The purchase
will be for the period of July 1, 1998, through June 30, 2000, in the amount
of $300,000.
3.  Ms. Berry-Bovia's pecuniary interest arises from her position as a stockholder/
partial owner of Life Support Services, Inc.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President and Secretary Tedesco submitted for approval
the minutes of the October 1998 meeting.
Reports.    Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports on
Investment, Plant Extension, Human Resources and Affirmative Action, and
Non-competitive Purchases Over $5,000 from Single Sources. Vice President
Krislov submitted the Litigation Report. Vice President Neidhardt submitted
a report on Projects Established for September 1998.
Student Affairs Report. Vice President Hartford gave a report on
responses that are occurring on campus as a result of heightened awareness
of alcohol and substance abuse. She noted that a Binge Drinking Task Force
had been appointed in the fall, chaired by Marcia Benz, a substance abuse


129




November Meeting, 1998


specialist at University Health Service. The task force also includes two
faculty members, a student from the Residence Halls Association, the
director of housing, representatives from the Greek system, a staff member
from the Office of Student Affairs, and the president of MSA.
Vice President Hartford described activities currently in place on
campus that address problems of alcohol and substance abuse. These include
an awareness program that carries out programs throughout the year; print
materials; training for residence hall staff; several substance abuse
assessments, including one accessible on the Web; short-term individual
counseling; substance-free housing; and a mandated alcohol workshop for
students with serious substance abuse issues or multiple "minor in
possession" citations. There is also an experimental program in Couzens
residence hall focusing on a media campaign to try to change the culture in
that residence hall away from binge drinking toward responsible drinking for
those who choose to drink.
Vice President Hartford said she would report back to the Regents
during the winter term about the results of the task force and of some of the
experimental programs that have been undertaken.
Medical Affairs Report. Executive Vice President Omenn introduced
Mr. Douglas Strong, associate vice president for finance and strategy at the
University of Michigan Health System (UMHS). He reported that the
recently concluded joint accreditation visit exceeded all expectations and
showed a marked improvement over previous years. He then reported on a
number of other items of interest with respect to the UMHS.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted the report of
Voluntary Support for October 1998. She noted that gifts for October 1998
exceeded the total for the same month in 1997.
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for chemical engineering support in the College
of Engineering.................................................. $ 7,550
William J. Abraham, Jr., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
97 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock
for the Foley & Lardner Fund in the Law School.......................... 10,206
ALS Association West Michigan Chapter, Grand Rapids
for research in the Medical School...........................................5,000
American Academy of Periodontology Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Bud and Linda Tarrson Fellowship in the School
of D entistry.........................................................  10,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the Biophysics Research Division................ 70,011
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  49,314
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School...................................... 25,000
American Foundation for Urological Disease, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  7,500
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School, and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts................................................  285,586
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research  in  the Medical School...................................... 45,000


130




November Meeting, 1998


American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................  42,500
American Paralysis Association, Springfield, New Jersey
for biology support in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts................................................... 25,000
American Society for Quality Control, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for research in the School of Business Administration..................... 127,896
Anonymous Donor
for student aid in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies.................................................... 25,000
Anonymous Donor
for endowment support in the Law School............................... 25,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the Institute
of Gerontology...................................................... 37,496
Atlas Tool, Inc., Roseville
for the Schmidt Family Scholarships in the College of
Engineering and the Medical School, and for research
in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 100,000
Linda L. Avakian, Salinas, California
for the Armenian Studies Program in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts............................................ 6,200
John B. Barney Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for support of the Law  School..........................................  23,355
Gloria W. Bell Trust
for mechanical engineering and applied mechanics support in
the College of Engineering............................................  100,000
Peter M. Benedek, Beverly Hills, California
for the London School of Economics Student Fund in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................  7,500
Alfred Berkowitz Foundation, Birmingham
for the Natural Sciences Department at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, in memory of Julius Berkowitz....................... 12,000
Besam Automated Entrance System, Inc., Highstown, New Jersey
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund........................... 5,400
M. E. Barr Bigelow, Sidney, British Columbia, Canada
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
and for the Biological Station in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts..........................................................  6,000
BMW North America, Woodclifff Lake, New Jersey
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute....................................................  150 00
Norman R. Bodine Bloomfield Hills
75 shares of disco Systems, Inc., common stock
for the Ralph B. Bodine Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................
Wayne & Ida Bowman Foundation, St. Simons Island, Georgia                   5,015
for the Marilyn Mason Scholarship, the Robert Glasgow Scholarship
and other support in the School of Music.................................. 6,000
Lynde & Harry Bradley Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for research in the School of Business Administration.............    39942
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Morrisville North Carolina.........
for research in the Medical School..
Alice F. Campbell M.D. Charitable Remainder Annuity Trust52,500
for support in the Medical School..................... 50,017
Cancer Research Foundation of America, Alexandria, Virginia                50,017
for research in the Medical School....................................... 8,000
Lila  G. Chen  Estate..........................
for support in the Medical School..................71,429
William R. Childs, Denver, Colorado.......... 7,4
for support in the College of Engineering.......5..............         000
Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park,000 
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering.0................         000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills    350,000
for the Chrysler Corporation Scholarship and Fellowship Fund
and other support in the College of Engineering, for the National
Pollution Prevention Center in the School of Natural Resources and
Environment and for other support at the University of Michigan........... 70,500
131




November Meeting, 1998


Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Cigna-Life Actuarial Sciences Fund, Department of Mathematics
in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts.......................... 5,000
Citicorp Foundation, New York, New York
for the Citibank Academic Excellence Award Fund in the School
of Business Administration............................................  14,000
Civitas Initiative, Chicago, Illinois
for the Civitas Scholarship in the School of Social Work.................... 37,500
Cohn Family Philanthropic Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for the Avern L. Cohn Fund for the Advancement of Michigan Law, Law School... 29,125
Commonwealth Fund New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  10,000
Paul Connell, Terrace Park, Ohio
1,600 shares of Amoco Corporation common stock
for the Priscilla H. Connell Endowment in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  85,500
Corning Inc., Foundation, Corning, New York
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................... 29,975
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in  the Medical School........................................  8,625
Ted Dacko, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School and the Kresge Hearing Research Institute..... 10,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  20,000
George H. Deuble Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the George H. Deuble Fund, Schools of Business Administration and Law..... 10,000
Glenn Doshay, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000
Dow AgroSciences, Indianapolis, Indiana
for chemistry scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 5,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for support in the College of Engineering, for the Dow Chemical CompanyBritton Chemistry Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts and for the Cecil and Sue Miskel Endowment in the School of
Education, and the Harmonize for Hope Fund in the Medical School......... 28,650
Edgemere Enterprises, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowment in the Schools of
Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment.......... 10,000
Electronic Data Systems Corporation, Dallas, Texas
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  7,500
S. Cody Engle, Chicago, Illinois
1,250 shares of Fred Meyer, Inc., common stock
for the Humanities Institute Director's Graduate Student Fellowship
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 51,719
Ernst & Young, Lyndhurst, New Jersey
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration,
and for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute....................................................  10,000
Exxon Company, U.S.A., Houston, Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration,
for the Exxon Education Foundation Grant Fund and other support
in the College of Engineering and for geological sciences support
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 26,000
Stephen M. Fisher, Wauwatosa, Wisconsin
50 shares of Automatic Data Processing and
50 shares of Fannie Mae common stock
for the Foley & Lardner Fund in the Law School........................... 7,192
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in the College of Engineering and the Schools of
Medicine and Business Administration, for the Transportation
Reporting Fellowship and the Ford Journalism Fellowship
in Transportation Technology in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies and for the University Musical Society.................. 380,000


132




November Meeting, 1998


Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Real Estate Fellowship in the School of Business
Administration, for support in the College of Engineering,
and for Employee Matching Gifts......................................  214,871
Foundation for Modern Greek Studies, Dearborn
for the Classical Studies Department Modern Greek Fund in the
College of Literature Science, and the Arts.............................. 170,00
Foundation of Social Development for Senior Citizens, Tokyo, Japan
for research in the Medical School......................... 149,995
Fraternal Order of Eagles, Bradenton, Florida
for the Michigan Fraternal Order of Eagles Fund in the Medical School...... 10,000
David J. Fugenschuh, Ann Arbor
for the Harmonize for Hope Fund in the Medical School.................. 10,000
Anne V. Fuller Trust
for the Biological Station Enhancement Fund, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts..........................................   168,000
Patricia Winner Galloway, Hudson, Ohio
500 shares of American Home Products Corporation common stock
for the Ethan C. and Patricia W. Galloway Charitable Remainder
Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Patricia Winner Galloway
Fund in the School of Education.......................................  26,250
Frederick W. Gehring, Ann Arbor
4,687 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Frederick W. and Lois B. Gehring Professorship in Mathematics,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 349,927
Paul F. GeTter, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration.................... 5,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering........... 6,000
General Motors Corporation, Pontiac
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering........................... 10,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for Employee Matching  Gifts..........................................  60,463
Gerber Companies Foundation, Fremont
for support in the Department of Athletics................................ 5,000
Glaucoma Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in the Medical School......................................  22,500
Clifton S. Goddin, Tulsa, Oklahoma
1,500 shares of Amoco Corporation common stock and
500 shares of Schering-Plough Corporation common stock
for the Goddin Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the Clifton S. Goddin Chemical Engineering
Undergraduate Fund in the College of Engineering....................... 126,594
Goldman, Sachs & Company, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 25,184
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for the Research Center for Group Dynamics in the Institute for
Social Research..............................................     162,048
Grosse Ile Fire Department, Grosse Ile
for the Trauma Burn Center Firefighter's Fund in the Medical School........ 8,000
Robert D. Guy, Gulfport, Florida
1,509 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock
for the Robert D. Guy Scholarship...................................... 87,758
Charles N. Hall, Ann Arbor
125 shares of Philip Morris Companies, Inc., common stock
for the University M usical Society.......................................  6,160
Hayes Wheels International, Inc., Romulus
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 50,000
A.B. Heller, Inc., Milford
for support in the College of Engineering...............................  10,000
Herman Family Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Vivian R. Shaw Lecture Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts..................................................  5,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park California
for the support in the Center for Population Planning, School
of Public Health..................................................... 40,000


133




November Meeting, 1998


Jack E. Hill, Venice, Florida
100 shares of GTE Corporation common stock
for support in the Medical School........................................  5,625
Frederick R. Holland, Birmingham
for support in the Medical School....................................... 15,000
Mary B. Holmes Trust
for the Kileny/Wakefield Hearing Aid Research Fund in the Medical School.... 7,500
Hosiden and Philips Display Corporation, Kobe-City, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 26,825
LaRue T. Hosmer, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School....................82,000
Integrated Therapeutics, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for research  in the Medical School...................................... 29,200
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro Oregon
for research in the College of Engineering, and for the Tauber
Manufacturing Institute Team Projects Fund in the School of
Business Administration and the College of Engineering................... 50,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering.......... 45,200
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for electrical and computer engineering fellowships in the College
of Engineering, and for the Computer Science Alumnae of Michigan
Award  Fund.........................................................  20,526
Intevep, S.A., Los Teques Venezuela
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in
Porous Media in the College of Engineering.............................. 20,000
Andrew M. Isaacs, Sunnyvale, California
100 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock
for the Isaacs Kappmeyer Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts.........................................................  10,575
Japan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the International Institute, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.........................................................  41,991
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contributions Fund, Princeton, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts............................................ 7,000
Robert Wood Johnson Founaation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health............................... 34,108
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for WUOM..........................................................  75,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in the Medical School...................................... 8,500
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation-Canada, Willowdale, Ontario, Canada
for research  in the Medical School......................................  25,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Education, the Institute for Social
Research and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
and for the Center for Learning through Community Service.............. 163,589
Ted Kennedy, Jr., Ann Arbor
2,650 shares of LG&E Energy Corporation common stock
for support in the College ofEngineering................................ 70,970
Lear Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute..................................................  7,500
Leukemia Society of America, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................... 40,455
Norman Levy Associates, Inc., Southfield
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................... 6,100
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  8,750
Lockheed Martin Corporation Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for minority and female scholarships and the Minority Engineering
Program in the College of Engineering, and for the Tauber
Manufacturing Institute in the Schoo of Business Administration
and the College of Engineering........................................  117,000


134




November Meeting, 1998


Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Maas Foundation Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration, for the Maas Foundation Engineering TMI
Scholarship in the College of Engineering and for the
Comprehensive Cancer Center and the University Musical Society............ 8,450
Hilda Z. Maassab Revocable Trust
for the H. F. Maassab Student Research Award Fund in the School
of Public  Health...............................................  25,000
Elizabeth J. Macomber Estate
69,306 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts............................................. 2,635,467
Josiah Macy, Jr., Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Medical School....................................... 50,000
R. H. Macy & Company, Inc., New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
Elizabeth N. Mall, Ann Arbor
144 shares of Bane One Corporation common stock
for the Willis D. Nance Athletic Scholarship in the Department
of Athletics...........................................................  5,733
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for biology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 12,500
Masimo Corporation, Irvine, California
for anesthesiology research in the Medical School......................... 25,000
Frederick C. Matthaei Jr., Birmingham
295 shares of Kellogg Company common stock and a cash gift
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics and
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, in memory of Erich Steiner............ 10,241
C. Blake McDowell Jr., Estate
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  8,088
Andrew W. lellon Foundation, New York, New York
for the Sawyer Seminars Program Fund and the Center for Middle
Eastern and North African Studies in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts........................................................  300,000
Mika, Meyers Beckett & Jones, Grand Rapids
for  W U6M /W VGR.....................................................  6,650
Herman L. Miller, Ann Arbor
470 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock
for the Class of 1948 Engineering Scholarship in the College
of Engineering.......................................................  15,892
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering,
and for human factors research in the Transportation Research
Institute.                                                          36,000
Mobil Exploration & Producing Technical Center, Dallas, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in
Porous Media in the College of Engineering.............................. 20,000
Sarah Morgan Fund, Flint
for the Carl and Sarah Morgan Honors Scholarship and the Sarah and
Carl Morgan Theatre Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint........ 13,000
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
for the University  Musical Society.......................................  5,000
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 25,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for WUOM................................                          75,000
Florence B. Muir, Bloomfield, Connecticut
158 shares of International Business Machine Corporation common stock
for gifts pending  designation...........................................  19,948
Alberto A. Munoz II, Edinburg Texas
for the Alberto A. II and Sharon Munoz Fund in the Law School............  25,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Tucson, Arizona
for biology support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 15,000
National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, Inc., New York, New York
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering........... 8,500


135




November Meeting, 1998


National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School...................................... 30,000
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School...................................... 15,000
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................... 30,061
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  60,625
NBD Bank, N.A., Flint
for the Flint Banker's Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint........ 7,000
Ray E. Newton, Jr., Winnetka, Illinois
1,000 shares of Concord EFS, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 26,531
Northern Star Foundation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 25,000
John Nuveen & Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts..............................           5,972
OrthopaedicResearch and Education Foundation, Rosemont, Illinois
for research in the Medical School................................  24,979
Osborn Engineering Company, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Osborn Engineering Company/Robert M. Namen Scholarship
in the College of Enineering......................................... 10,000
Owens & Minor, Plymouth
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund.......................... 5,400
Wilhelmina E. Owens Estate
for research in the Medical School....................................... 5,079
David and Lucile Packard Foundation Los Altos, California
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 20,000
Richard H. F. Pao, Ann Arbor
953 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Professor Miranda Lee Pao Memorial Fund in the School
of Information...........................................         59,317
Theodore C. Papes, Jr., Mount Kisco, New York
100 shares of International Business Machines Corporation common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 13,741
Pentax, Orangeburg, New York
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School..................... 30,000
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Inc., Washington, DC
for research in the College of Pharmacy................................... 6,000
Pharmaceutical Research & Manufacturers of America Foundation, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Pharmacy.................................. 6,500
Pharmacia and Upjohn, Inc., Kalamazoo
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 11,000
PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for chemistry scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts and for Employee Matching Gifts.............................. 5,100
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for Employee Matching Gifts........................................ 53,154
Martin C. Recchuite, Calabasas, California
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,000
Regal Plastics Company, Roseville
for the building fund in the School of Social Work......................... 10,000
Rizik and Rizik, P.C., Flint
for the Michael B. and Matilda B. Rizik Scholarship in the School
of Business Administration............................................  5,000
Amnon Rosenthal, Ann Arbor
55 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock
for the University  Musical Society.......................................  7,239
Judith Dow Rumelhart, Ann Arbor
210 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Music,
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund, and for the
University  Musical Society.............................................  16,682
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Population Studies Center in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  22,756


136




November Meeting, 1998


Ashish D. Sarkar, West Caldwell, New Jersey
for support in the College of Engineering and for
scholarships, fellowships and other student aid at the
University of Michigan................................................. 8,000
Norma Sarkar, West Caldwell, New Jersey
for support in the Schools of Nursing and Public Health.................... 5,000
Katherine Collier Schotten, Ann Arbor
for the string department in the School of Music........................... 5,500
Richard M. Scroggins, Greenwich, Connecticut
for support m the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Edward L. Shearer, Metairie, Louisiana
for the Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Loyal
Crew Fund in the College of Engineering............................... 10,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for
Social Research, and for research in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts................................................  916,690
Herbert Sloan, Jr., Trust
for the University Musical Society......................................  10,500
Smith, Hinchman & Grylls Associates, Inc., Detroit
for scholarships in the College Architecture and Urban Planning............. 5,000
SmithKline Beecham Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  50,000
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council, New York, New York
for research in the School of Dentistry...................................  21,957
Jerold S. Solovy, Chicago, Illinois
for the Jerold andKathleen Solovy Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  10,000
Victor L. Streeter, Ann Arbor
70 shares of McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., common stock
for the Victor L. Streeter Fellowship in the College of Engineering........... 5,950
Jerome P. Subar, Grand Rapids
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the
University  Library..........................................  8,334
Nancy Bassett Sunday Estate
for the Charles W. and Nancy Bassett Sunday Scholarship in the
School of M usic....................................................  1,471,896
Sunrise Medical HHG, Inc., Longmont, Colorado
for wheelchair restraints research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  7,500
G. Dekle Taylor, Jacksonville, Florida
614 shares of Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc., common stock
for support in the Medical School and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  20,013
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc., Torrance, California
for student aid in the School of Business Administration................... 10,000
TRW Automotive Worldwide Sector, Cleveland, Ohio
for wheelchair restraints research in the Transportation
Research  Institute....................................................  20,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.................... 5,000
Thomas A. Turner, Pawleys Island, South Carolina
3,194 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Thomas and June Turner Charitable Remainder Unitrust
Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Turner Scholarship and
other support in the School of Business Administration................... 146,084
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor,
Margaret Waterman Group, Ann Arbor
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship.....................................  6,000
University of Michigan Alumni Association, Ann Arbor
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship................................. 20,000
Donia Vakuf Foundation, La Jolla, California
for support in the History Department and for endowment
support in the Center for Russian and East European Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 8,000
Visteon Automative System, Ann Arbor
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 29,400


137




November Meeting, 1998


Robert J. Vlasic, Bloomfield Hills
4,925 shares of Campbell Soup Company common stock
for the Robert J. Vlasic Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Robert J. Vlasic Endowment in
the College of Engineering............................................ 258,356
Samuel A. Walk, Pinckney
for support in the Department of Athletics............................... 25,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School, for support in the College of
Pharmacy, and for the University Musical Society........................ 101,750
Aldred S. Warthin Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 32,500
Walter J. Weber, Jr., Ann Arbor
266 shares of Nokia Corporation ADR-A common stock
for the Walter J. Weber, Jr., and Linda M. Abriola-Weber
Professorship in the College of Engineering.............................. 23,516
Frank T. Westover, Lake Forest, Illinois
500 shares of Midas Group, Inc., common stock
for the Doris B. and Frank O. Westover Scholarship and the
Elizabeth V. and Charles W. Gauss II Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration......................................  12,000
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Engineering.............. 198,000
Wilkinson Foundation, Grosse Pointe
for the Nichols Arboretum Flowering Tree Fund.......................... 25,000
Brymer Williams, Ann Arbor
600 shares of Darden Restaurants, Inc., common stock
for  gifts pending  designation............................................  8,738
for ifts pending designation.8,738
John H. Williams, Grosse Pointe Woods
100 shares of Ameritech Corporation common stock
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens Gift Fund, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts....................................            5,156
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for the Cecil and Sue Miskel Endowment in the School of Education......... 5,000
Wyeth Ayerst American Home Products Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
William T. Brunke, Royal Oak
50 low voltage halogen fixtures and lamps for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Berkowitz Gallery
Marie J. Camp, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
a photograph by Don Camp for the Museum of Art
Walter Just, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
a York tuba with a stand for the School of Music
Henry L. Kanar, Ann Arbor
films of lateral cephalograms for the School of Dentistry
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
software and related items for the School of Information
Jeff Russell, New York, New York
two paintings by Beatrice Riese for the Museum of Art
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
George Aghjayan, Worcester, Massachusetts  Alice A. Nersesian, Royal Oak
Alfred Berkowitz, Birmingham          Artem Ohandhanian, Vienna, Austria
Harvey Blankespoor, Holand            Dennis R. Papazian, Troy
Geoff Compton, Athens                 Heather L. Phillips, Ann Arbor
Harry L. Cross, Ann Arbor             Gerda Seligson, Ann Arbor
Ilene H. Forsyth, Ann Arbor           Alfred S. Sussman, Ann Arbor
Susan A. Hamilton, Ann Arbor          Thomas G. Varbedian, Bloomfield Hills
Henry L. Kanar, Ann Arbor             Darragh H. Weisman, Ann Arbor
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor              Charles Witke, Ann Arbor
Rose Megerian, Southfield


138




November Meeting, 1998


Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted a number of personnel
actions. She called attention to an endowed professorship in the College of
Pharmacy that is being established in honor of Dean Emeritus Ara Paul and
to the appointment of William Gosling as director of University Libraries.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Friedmann, Peretz P., D.Sc., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, and
Frangois-Xavier Bagnoud Professor of Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering,
five year term, January 1, 1999
Hortsch, Michael, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell
Biology, with tenure, Medical School, December 1, 1998
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective October 1, 1998
Juhasz, Tibor, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1999
Humes, H. David, Chair, Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School, eight month term
Whitman, Christina L., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, Law School, two year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1999-June 30, 2002
Herrin, Gary D., Assistant Dean for Advising and First Year Programs, College of Engineering
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Cooper, Frederick, Charles Gibson Collegiate Professor of History, Professor of History, with
tenure, and Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, personal leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Levinson, Marjorie, Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor and Professor of English, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, personal leave extended,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing Professorships
Ara G. Paul Professorship, College of Pharmacy, December 1, 1998
Sally Michelson Davidson Professorship in Chinese Arts and Culture, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, five year renewable term, September 1, 1998


139




November Meeting, 1998


OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointment to Established Professorships
Goldstein, Steven A., Henry Ruppenthal Family Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery and
Biogineering, Medical School, five year term, November 20, 1998
Rosenberg, William G., Richard Hudson Research Professor of History, five month term,
January 1, 1999
Reappointment to Established Professorship
Johnson, Timothy R. B., Bates Professor of the Diseases of Women and Children, Medical
School, five year term, July 1, 1998
Other Transactions
Gosling, William, from Interim Director of the University Library to Director of the
University Library, Office of the Provost, five year term, December 1, 1998
Harper, E. Royster, from Associate Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students,
to Senior Associate Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students, Office of
the Vice President for Student Affairs, January 1, 1999
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Dentistry Executive Committee
Chiego, Daniel J., Jr., November 1, 1998-October 31, 1999, vice Robert J. Feigal, new
administrative appointment
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Malde, Sachit (student representative), September 1, 1998-August 31, 1999, vice Kimberly
Dillion, term expired
Michigan Historical Collection Executive Committee
Bollinger, Lee C., retroactive, November 1, 1997-October 31, 2001, vice James J. Duderstadt,
term expired
Cantor, Nancy E., retroactive, November 1, 1996-October 31, 2000, vice Gilbert R. Whitaker,
term expired
Lewis, Earl, retroactive, November 1, 1997-October 31, 2001, vice John H. D'Arms, term expired
Wilbanks, Cynthia H., November 1, 1998-October 31, 2002, vice Farris W. Womack, term expired
Personnel reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Barnosky, Andrew R., D.O., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, Medical School,
November 1, 1998-October 31, 1999
Chiodo, Anthony E., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, Medical School, September 21, 1998-August 31, 1999
Finney, Mary Jo, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001
Forsoyke, Sara L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, October 1, 1998-May 31, 2001
Gilbert, Nitsa D., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, October 19, 1998 -September 30, 2001
Goh, Keow M., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Gromacki, Susan J., O.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, September 14, 1998 -September 13, 1999
Gupta, Sudheer, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Operations Management, School of Business
Administration, October 1, 1998-May 31, 2001


140




November Meeting, 1998


Hittinger, Jennifer, M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 1998 -May 31, 1999
Hughes, Richard E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School,
November 1, 1998-October 31, 1999
Jindal, Usha R., M.S., Lecturer in Hindu-Urdu, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Kalliel, Nora, M.A., Lecturer II in Arabic Language, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Kazantzis, Nikolaos, Ph.D., Lecturer in Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering,
October 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Kingsley, Lauren, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Krishnamoorthy, Karunakaran, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Kwok, Roland P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Assistant
Professor of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, October 15, 1998-October 14, 1999
Marcovici, Iacob, M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
October 15, 1998-June 30, 1999
Martinez, Ivan D., M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Martyn, Kristy K., M.S.N., Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing,
January 1-May 31, 1999
Mbonye, Manasse R., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
McClean, Kelly, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dermatology, Medical School,
October 1, 1998-September 23, 2003
Pascal, Elizabeth, M.A., Lecturer II in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1-April 30,1999
Payne, Lisa, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, October 1, 1998 -September 30, 1999
Pimentel, Juan R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics and Engineering, UM-Flint College
of Arts and Sciences, September 1-December 31, 1998
Schubnell, Michael S. G., Diplom Dr. Renat, Lecturer I in Physics, September 1-December 31, 1998
Smith, Gary D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
October 15, 1998-October 14, 1999
Somanathan, Robini, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001
VanBonn, Kathleen C., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 1998 -May 31, 1999
Vannan, Mani, M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 1998 -August 30, 2001
CORRECTIONS TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Miller, Cathleen L., Assistant Professor of Accounting, UM-Flint School of Management,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 2001 (previously reported as Lecturer in Accounting)
Velez, Lourdes, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Family Medicine, Medical School,
August 1, 1998-May 31, 1999 (previously reported as Lecturer in Family Medicine)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Chepeha, Douglas B., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical
School, August 1, 1998-July 31, 1999
Fontana, Robert J., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School, October 1, 1998-September 30, 1999
Huntington, John H., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology,
Medical School, August 15, 1998-August 31, 1999
141




November Meeting, 1998


Lupton, James H., Lecturer I in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also
appointed Assistant Professor of Physics/Engineering Science, UM-Flint College of Arts
and Sciences, September 1-December 31, 1998
Ojo, Tammy C., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine,
Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Silbergleit, Robert, from Lecturer in Emergency Medicine to Assistant Professor of Surgery,
Medial School, November 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Veryser, Thomas J., from Lecturer to Clinical Associate Professor II of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry, September 1, 1998-August 31, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Bassett, David R., Associate Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
August 1, 1998-July 31, 1999
Loos, Paul J., Associate Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, January 1 -December 31, 1998
Palmer, Warren G., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, and
Professor Emeritus of Library Science, School of Information, reappointed to the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 1999
Schnermann, Jurgen B., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, Medical School,
September 1, 1998-August 31, 1999
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Alessi, Norman E., Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, October 1, 1998-March 31, 1999
Barritt, Matthew D., Lecturer in Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, personal leave, November 16-December 1, 1998
Bergmann, Frithjof H., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Bokemeier, L. Charles, Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, UM-Flint School of
Management, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Burbank, Jane R., Professor of History, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1999
Faller, Lincoln B., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1999
Hecht, Gabrielle, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
History, with tenure, Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
outside teaching leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Jenkins, Janice M., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
and Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
intergovernmental leave, August 24, 1998-August 23, 1999
Leonard, Joanne, Professor of Art, School of Art and Design, and Professor of Women's
Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1998
Levitt, Robert A., Assistant Professor of Architecture, College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, extended sick leave, October 16, 1998-April 15, 1999
Lewis, Donald J., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, duty off campus, July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Lin, Shuen-Fu, Professor of Chinese Languages and Literatures, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
MacAlpine, Gordon M., Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Marshall, Kelley W., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical School,
medical/childcare leave, October 22-November 22, 1998
McDonough, Susan C., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, extended
sick leave, September 22, 1998-February 28, 1999


142




November Meeting, 1998


Meshnick, Steven R., Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, School of Public Health,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Metzger, Bonnie L., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing,
sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 1999
Monto, Arnold S., Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, School of Public Health,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Moore, David J., Associate Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, Division of Kinesiology,
sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 1999
Nelson, Christine C., Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, Medical School,
personal leave, October 5-October 30, 1998, and sabbatical leave, September 1 -September 30, 1998, and December 15, 1998-May 14, 1999
Raitt, Suzanne, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's
Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity
leave, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Raz, Jonathan A., Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Rinne, Carl H., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Flint School of
Education, retirement furlough (phased), January 1-December 31, 1999
Roubidoux, Marilyn A., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School,
sabbatical leave, October 1-November 30, 1998, and January 1-March 31, 1999
Sandalow, Terrance, Edson R., Sunderland Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with
tenure, Law School, retirement furlough (phased), January 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Straub, Richard O., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Behavioral Sciences, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Therrien, Barbara A., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing,
sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 1999
Thornton, Leslie J., II, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Flint School of
Education, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Velthouse, Betty A., Associate Professor of Management, with tenure, UM-Flint School of
Management, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1999
Woodward, John B., Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure,
College of Engineering, retirement furlough, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Yeo, Seonae, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
CORRECTION TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Abrams, Gerald D., Professor of Pathology, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough
(phased), September 1, 1997-June 30, 2002 (previously reported as September 1 -November 15, 1997)
Beaver, Frank E., Professor of Film and Video Studies, without tenure, and Professor of
Communication Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, January 1-April 30, 1997 (previously reported as January 1-May 1, 1997)
Harlow, Sioban D., Associate Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, School of
Public Health, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999 (previously reported
as September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999)
Kelsey, Charles C., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, retirement furlough
(phased), July, 1997-June 30, 1999 (previously reported as July 1-August 31, 1997)
Kister, James M., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, retirement furlough (phased), January 1, 1997-December 31, 1998 (previously
reported as January 1-May 31, 1997)
Kossoudji, Sherrie A., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work,
sabbatical leave, January 1, 1997-May 31, 1997 (dates previously unreported)
Scott, Julius S., III, Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies and Assistant
Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, teaching leave,
September 1, 1996-May 31, 1997 (previously reported as leave without salary)
Sisson, James C., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, retirement
furlough (phased), February 1, 1998-February 29, 2000 (previously reported as
February 1-August 31, 1998)


143




November Meeting, 1998


Stern, Robert M., Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure,
School of Public Health, retirement furlough (phased), January 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
(previously reported as January 1- May 31, 1998)
Wheeler, James E., Professor of Accounting, with tenure, School of Business
Administration, retirement furlough (phased), September 1, 1995-December 31, 1998
(previously reported as September 1, 1995-May 31, 1999
CANCELLATION OF
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Coffey, John T., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, College of Engineering, January 1-December 31, 1999, sabbatical leave canceled
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Berger, Candyce S., Associate Professor of Social Work, without tenure, and Assistant Dean
of Hospital Social Work Services, School of Social Work, September 25, 1998
Bonilla-Silva, Eduardo, Assistant Professor of Sociology and Assistant Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1998
Crabtree, Susan M., Lecturer in Theatre and Drama, School of Music, October 16, 1998
Drewnowski, Adam, Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, with tenure, School
of Public Health, Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Psychology in Psychiatry, without tenure,
Medical School, September 25, 1998
Solomon, Carlin J., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, September 30, 1998
Wojno, Kirk J., Assistant Professor of Pathology and Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical
School, September 30, 1998
Retired
Conway, Lynn, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, December 31, 1998
Grossman, Herbert J., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
Professor of Pediatrics in Neurology, without tenure, and Professor of Neurology in
Psychiatry, without tenure, Medical School, September 30, 1998
Hill, Anne B., Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, Medical School,
September 30, 1998
Menge, Alan C., Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without tenure,
December 31, 1998
Stewart, Paul L., Catherine B. Heller Collegiate Professor of Art and Professor of Art, with
tenure, School of Art and Design, December 31, 1998
Tai, Julia C., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, December 31, 1998
Term Completed
Farouki, Rida T., Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, without
tenure, College of Engineering, July 31, 1998
Palen, Joseph J., Lecturer in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1998
Radhakrishnan, Sankaran, Lecturer II in Tamil, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Retirement memoirs. Memoirs for four retiring faculty members
were submitted for adoption.
Edith S. Gomberg, Ph.D., professor of psychology in the Department of
Psychiatry, Medical School, and adjunct professor of social work, School of
Social Work, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1998.


144




November Meeting, 1998


Professor Gomberg received her B.A. degree from Brooklyn College in
1938, her M.A. degree from Columbia University in 1940, and her Ph.D. degree
from Yale University in 1949. From 1949-63, she was a research associate at
the Yale University Center of Alcohol Studies, and from 1963-67 she held
appointments at Yale in the Departments of Psychology and Sociology and the
School of Public Health. From 1968-71, she was an associate professor of
psychology at the University of Puerto Rico. Since joining the faculty of the
University of Michigan in 1974, she has served as a professor in the School of
Social Work (1974-90), research scientist in the Institute of Gerontology
(1976-84), faculty associate in the Institute for Social Research (1979-85),
adjunct professor in the School of Social Work (1993-98), and professor of
psychology in the Department of Psychiatry (1988-98).
Professor Gomberg's research has focused on alcohol use and problems in
women and the elderly, and her work both defined and set a standard for the
field. She was one of the first investigators to understand that these problems
needed to be explored within the larger conceptual structures of gender
differences, deviant behavior, and adaptation. Her work has received funding
from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. Professor
Gomberg played a key role in the establishment of the University of Michigan
Alcohol Research Center, whose special focus has been the problems of alcohol
use and aging. She is the author of more than 50 peer-reviewed publications, a
number of book chapters, and has edited 6 books.
At the University of Michigan, Professor Gomberg has been known for
her teaching on substance abuse and for her popular course on drugs, society,
and behavior. An internationally respected scholar, lecturer, and consultant,
she has been the Mary Burke Scholar at Dalhousie University, the American
Society of Addiction Medicine's Betty Ford Lecturer, and has received a
number of other awards. She has also served on the editorial review boards of
11 journals.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for her
dedicated service by naming Edith S. Gomberg professor emerita of psychology.
Herbert J. Grossman, M.D., professor of pediatrics and communicable
diseases, professor of pediatrics in the Department of Neurology, and
professor of pediatric neurology in the Department of Psychiatry, retired from
active faculty status on September 30, 1998, after a productive career as a
clinician, teacher, and researcher.
Dr. Grossman's undergraduate and medical school studies were
completed at the University of Illinois, where he received his B.S. degree in
1944 and his M.D. degree in 1946. He served his internship in Chicago from
1946-47 and completed post-doctoral training at the University of Illinois
(1949-53) and at UCLA (1958-61). His first academic appointment was at the
University of Illinois, where from 1951-57 he served first as an instructor and
then as an assistant professor. From 1958-61, he was an associate professor
at the UCLA Medical School. He returned to the University of Illinois as a
professor of pediatrics and neurology in 1961 and remained there until 1976,
at which time he rejoined the UCLA Medical School faculty. He was recruited
to the University of Michigan in 1981 as a professor of pediatrics and
communicable diseases and professor of pediatric neurology.


145




November Meeting, 1998


A distinctive focus of Dr. Grossman's clinical and teaching efforts was to
consolidate links between pediatric neurology and child psychiatry. His major
academic contributions were in the field of mental retardation research. He
has contributed many original articles to peer-reviewed journals and has also
contributed informative chapters to major textbooks. A nationally-recognized
authority on predictors of mortality in children with severe developmental
disability, he has served as a consultant to a wide range of state and federal
agencies. During his career, he was named a distinguished fellow by the
American Psychiatric Association (1972) and a distinguished faculty alumnus
by the University of Illinois College of Medicine (1989). He received a career
research award from the Academy on Mental Retardation in 1993.
The Regents now salute this distinguished clinical scholar for his
dedicated service by naming Herbert J. Grossman professor emeritus of
pediatrics and communicable diseases, professor emeritus of pediatrics in
neurology, and professor emeritus of pediatric neurology in psychiatry.
Anne B. Hill, M.D., associate professor of anesthesiology, retired from
active faculty status on September 30, 1998, after a long and productive
career as clinician, teacher, and researcher.
After completing Friends School in Lisburn, Northern Ireland, Dr. Hill
attended Queens University, Belfast, Northern Ireland, where she received
her M.B., B.Ch., and Ba.O degrees in 1962. She completed her internship at
Belfast City Hospital from 1962-64 and her anesthesiology residency at Royal
Victoria Hospital and Northern Ireland Hospitals Authority from 1965-71.
Dr. Hill joined the University of Michigan faculty as an instructor in the
Department of Anesthesiology in 1971 and was promoted to associate
professor in 1981.
From 1973-75, Dr. Hill was chief of the anesthesiology service at the Ann
Arbor Veteran's Administration Medical Center. In 1976, she completed an
eight-month research fellowship at the Royal Post Graduate School of
Medicine, Hammersmith Hospital, in London, England. In 1990, Dr. Hill took
a sabbatical leave and gained additional teaching skills in the clinical and
didactic environment focusing on quality assurance issues. She served as director
of anesthesia services at the Kellogg Eye Center from 1995-96.
In addition to her extensive clinical and teaching responsibilities, Dr. Hill
has served on more than 20 committees at the departmental, Medical Center,
and Medical School levels. She has 47 publications in scientific journals and
has been a visiting professor at numerous institutions in the U.S. and abroad.
The Regents now salute this distinguished medical educator for her
dedicated service by naming Anne B. Hill associate professor emerita of
anesthesiology.
Charles A. Tait, associate professor of education and audiology, School of
Education, and associate research scientist, Communicative Disorders Clinic,
will retire from active faculty status on November 30, 1998, after 27 years of
service to the University of Michigan.
Professor Tait received his B.S. (1957) and M.Ed. (1961) degrees from
Wayne State University and his Ph.D. degree (1965) from Stanford University.
From 1958-61, he was a speech and hearing therapist at the Maricopa County
school district, and from 1964-71 he was an assistant, then associate professor


146




November Meeting, 1998


at the University of Wisconsin. He came to the University of Michigan in 1971
as an associate professor in the Department of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation at the Medical School and in 1978, he became an associate
professor in the School of Education. He was named director of Camp Shady
Trails in 1987 and served in that capacity until 1991. In 1977-78, he was a
visiting professor of audiology at Hebrew University.
Within the School of Education, Professor Tait served on the executive
committee, research committee, promotion committee and the Human Subjects
Review Committee and was assistant dean from 1988-89. At the University
level, he served on Rackham's Dissertation Grant Committee and on the
University Grievance Committee. As an undergraduate advisor in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, he enjoyed a reputation for being
knowledgeable, helpful, respected, and well-liked. Professor Tait taught
undergraduate courses in speech and language pathology and audiology and
graduate courses in auditory assessment of children, experimental hearing
science, and research in audiology. His numerous publications with graduate
students as co-authors provide evidence of his considerable ability as a mentor.
Professor Tait maintained memberships in the American SpeechLanguage and Hearing Association and the Michigan Speech and Hearing
Association. He regularly presented papers at national and international
meetings, and his articles appeared in Ear and Hearing, Journal of Auditory
Research, and Journal of Speech and Hearing Research, among others.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Charles A. Tait
associate professor emeritus of education and audiology and associate
research scientist emeritus.
Memorial Statements. No deaths of active faculty members were
reported to the Regents this month.
Regent Power commented on the recent death of Professor Emeritus
Jack Meiland.
Degrees. Provost Cantor and Vice President Tedesco submitted the
December 1998 Doctoral Degree List; final degree lists for the May 1998 Law
School commencement and August 1998 commencements for the other
schools, colleges, and branch campuses; and changes to previously approved
degree lists.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Power, seconded
by Regent Newman, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Field House Addition
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that this request seeks to
increase the budget for this project from $2,725,000 to $3,500,000. He
reported that he has done some investigation to learn whether the
inaccuracy of the original estimate was a result of errors and omissions on
the part of the University of Michigan, and he determined it was not. The
professional estimator hired by the architectural firm of Ghafari Associates
developed the original estimate presented to the Regents in May 1998, and it
appears that this estimate was flawed. He reported that funds are available
at the UM-Dearborn to cover the additional costs.


147




November Meeting, 1998


Regent Power moved approval of the revised budget for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn Field House Addition and authorization for award of the
construction contract to A. Z. Shmina, Inc. Regent Maynard seconded the
motion.
Regent Newman commented that she is very disappointed in the cost
estimate increase, because the initial decision of the Board to move forward
on a project is based in part on cost. She noted that the architect's letter
explained that the increase is based in part on a labor shortage and in part,
on "additions added after the fact." She noted that the architect and the
estimator should have been aware and should have factored in higher costs
attributed to a labor shortage. However, she said that any enrichments
should be included in the original project at the time it is placed before the
Board for approval. She expressed concern that the project was returned
after the fact for enrichments that led to an increased cost estimate, noting
that "when a project comes to us, it should be final."
Chancellor Renick responded that the enhancements were minor and
did not drive up the price significantly. Regent Newman noted that she
would be opposed to paying any higher fee that the architect might impose
due to the increase in their costs associated with the increased cost estimate.
Regent Power observed that as a policy matter, the Board decided some
time ago to pay more attention to the design and functional specifications of
projects in advance. He advised that the policy issues associated with that
question relate to the current question and caution should be taken so as to
be watchful of "design creep" once a project has been authorized and
established. Executive Vice President Kasdin stated that he had spoken to
Ghafari Associates in an effort to determine what was meant by its use of the
term "enrichment" in their letter. He has come to the conclusion that the
expenditures referred to by this term in fact will save money on a present
value basis. They are additions to the design that will save in ongoing
operating and maintenance costs.   Executive Vice President Kasdin
commented also that he agrees with Regent Newman that when a budget is
approved it should be an accurate budget. He believes that to attribute the
inaccurate estimate to problems with the labor market and enrichments does
not fully describe what went wrong in the estimating process as it was
managed by the architect.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
External Auditor
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that the Regents had expressed
an interest in rotating the University's external audit firm. He reported that
he had informed Ernst & Young that the University would be sending out a
request for proposal for competitive bid for these services. This would be the
first year of closing using the new PeopleSoft system and that could pose
difficulties with new auditors. However, this situation could also be viewed
as an advantageous time to engage new auditors. He will report back to the
Board as the interviewing process proceeds.
Regent Newman left the meeting at this point, at 11:00 a.m.
148




November Meeting, 1998


Six Months Report on University Audits
The Regents received the regular six months report on Office of University
Audits activities for the period April 1, 1998 through September 30, 1998.
University of Michigan Financial Report Supplemental Schedules
for the Year Ended June 30, 1998
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted the 1998 Financial Report
Supplemental Schedules for the Year Ended June 30, 1998. He noted that
during the current year, he and his staff would be working to improve the
format of the financial statements so as to more precisely convey the true
state of the University's financial picture.
Fixed Income Managers for the University Investment Pool
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that the University's financial
assets are divided into two groups: the endowment funds and the working
capital. The endowment funds are invested in the Long Term Portfolio,
which includes all of the endowment funds and part of the working capital.
All of those funds are invested by external managers. Historically, a
significant portion of the working capital, referred to as the "University
Investment Pool," has been invested by University staff directly in bonds.
Executive Vice President Kasdin said that he believes these funds should be
invested by professional outside managers, and that this is a proposal for the
appointment of three investment managers for this purpose.
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved the appointment of Pacific Investment
Management Company (PIMCO) and Payden & Rygel Investment Counsel as
active managers, with an initial allocation of $300 million to PIMCO and
$250 million to Payden & Rygel; and authorization for the executive vice
president and chief financial officer to appoint Mellon Bond Associates as
passive manager with funding of $220 million.
Medical Science II and Buhl Center for Human Genetics Buildings
Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved the Medical Science II and Buhl Center for
Human Genetics Buildings Renovation Project, as described in the Regents
Communication.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Emergency
Department Expansion and Renovation
Executive Vice President Kasdin called on Mr. Steve Whitney of Albert
Kahn Associates to give a presentation on the external design of this project.
Mr. Whitney displayed a map of the Medical Center; diagrams of both
the existing Emergency Department and proposed expansion and renovation;
and a computer rendering of the completed project.


149




November Meeting, 1998


Regents Power, McGowan, Maynard, and Horning provided observations
on parking and expressed concern regarding the impact that the expansion
and renovation might have.
Regent McGowan observed that the Board would like building proposals
that will increase capacity and lead to increased usage to address parking.
She noted that the Board takes very seriously the issue of how parking needs
will be accommodated.
Regent Power suggested that as a necessary part of any submission
brought to the Board for expanded space, there be in writing a component
dealing with parking. President Bollinger pointed out parking issues are a
major consideration in development of the new Master Plan.
Executive Vice President Kasdin responded that building projects in the
future will include parking impact statements.
Regent Power observed that parking presents a particularly acute
problem for people driving to the Emergency area of the hospital. Regent
Power then moved approval of the design of the Emergency Expansion and
Renovation Project and authorization to solicit the project for bids and award
a construction contract, providing the project remains within project budget.
Regent Horning seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Executive Vice President Omenn said that he would report on the
parking situation relative to this project at the next meeting.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers C. S. Mott
Children's Hospital Infant Security System Project
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Infant
Security System Project, as described in the Regents Communication.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Helipad
Relocation Project
The Regents received information on the design objectives for the
UMHHC Helipad Relocation Project.
Recommendation for Replacement and Upgrade of the University of
Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Enterprise-wide Computer
Network Infrastructure
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved the purchase of the Cisco enterprise-wide
computer network, as described in the Regents Communication.
1999 Henry Russel Lecturer
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved the appointment of Jack E. Dixon, Minor J.
Coon Professor of Biological Chemistry and chair of the Department of
Biological Chemistry, as the Henry Russel Lecturer for 1999.


150




November Meeting, 1998
Adjournment
There being no further business the meeting wa adjouned at 11:35 a m.
The next meeting is scheduled for December 178, 1w998.dourned at 1135 a.m.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and
Secretary of the University


151




DECEMBER MEETING, 1998


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, December 17, 1998
The Regents convened at 3:30 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Horning, Maynard, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice
President Feagin, Vice President Hartford, Executive Vice President Kasdin,
Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Vice President Neidhardt,
Chancellor Renick, Interim Chancellor Schmoll, Vice President and Secretary
Tedesco, and Vice President Wilbanks. Executive Vice President Omenn
arrived at about 3:55 p.m.; Regent Deitch was absent.
Public Comments
The Regents heard public comments from the following individuals, on
the topics indicated: Philip Schloop, business manager of IUOE Local 547,
prescription drug benefits for union members; Trent Thompson, president of
MSA, and Brian Riech, member of MSA's Student Code Review Committee,
review of the Code of Student Conduct; Bram Elias, treasurer of MSA, the
nonprofit Student Coursepack Store; and members of the UM-Flint Student
Government Council, Jada S. Wooten (president), Nicholas T. Waun
(representative), and Holly Anderson (chair of public relations), the UM-Flint
chancellor search.
Regent Power commented on the civility of the current discussion about
the Code of Student Conduct compared to when the code was first introduced
several years ago.
President Bollinger commented on the status of the Flint chancellor
search, noting that five candidates had been identified and brought to
campus for initial interviews, one had withdrawn, and one had been invited
for a second visit. He said that the search committee is still gathering
information and obtaining input, and that the original January 1 deadline
has been amended.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Horning read the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202 and 1996 PA 464, I move that the Board of Regents meet
in closed session on December 17, 1998, in the Regents' Room, for the
purpose of consulting with our attorney regarding trial or settlement
strategy in connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then continued in executive session from 4:05-5:30 p.m.


153




December Meeting, 1998


Friday, December 18, 1998
The Regents convened at 9:40 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Deitch, Homing, Maynard, McFee, McGowan,
Newman, Power, and Taylor. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice
President Feagin, Vice President Hartford, Executive Vice President Kasdin,
Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Vice President Neidhardt,
Executive Vice President Omenn, Chancellor Renick, Interim Chancellor
Schmoll, Vice President and- Secretary Tedesco, and Vice President Wilbanks.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order.
Comments about Vice President Neidhardt. Provost Cantor commented
on Vice President Neidhardt's extraordinary accomplishments during his
tenure as vice president for research.
Introduction of Fawwaz Ulaby. Provost Cantor then introduced
Fawwaz Ulaby, the R. Jamison and Betty Williams Professor of Engineering,
Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, and professor of electrical engineering and
computer science, who is recommended for appointment as interim vice
president for research.
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved the appointment of Fawwaz Ulaby as interim
vice president for research.
Introduction of Allen Lichter. Executive Vice President Omenn
introduced Allen S. Lichter, professor of radiation oncology, who is recommended
for appointment as interim dean of the Medical School.
Regent Deitch moved approval of the appointment of Allen S. Lichter as
interim dean of the Medical School, noting that he had known Dr. Lichter
since his undergraduate days at the University of Michigan. He noted that
Dr. Lichter is a graduate of the University of Michigan and has a reputation
for being a caring and concerned physician, and that his appointment is "a
great moment for the Medical School and the University."
Regent Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President and Secretary Tedesco submitted the minutes
of the November 19-20, 1998 meeting.
Reports.   Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports on
Investment, Plant Extension, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action.
Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report. Vice President
Neidhardt submitted the report of Projects Established for November 1998.
Implementation of the Regents' Policy on Research Grants,
Contracts, and Agreements, FY 1998
Vice President Neidhardt submitted and presented a report on
implementation of the Regents' Policy on Research Grants, Contracts, and


154




December Meeting, 1998


Agreements for FY 1998. He noted that for FY 1998 there were 10 new
requests for approval of nonstandard restrictions on openness of 3,063
proposals submitted and 1,619 awards accepted during that period, and all
were approved.
Resolution in Honor of Vice President Neidhardt
Regent Deitch called Vice President Neidhardt to the podium and read
the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan express their sincere
gratitude to Frederick C. Neidhardt, vice president for research and the
Frederick G. Novy Distinguished University Professor of Microbiology
and Immunology, for his distinguished service as vice president for
research as he begins his retirement furlough on January 1, 1999.
Vice President Neidhardt joined the University in 1970 as chair
of the Department of Microbiology and Immunology in the Medical
School, a post he held until becoming associate dean for academic
affairs in the Medical School in 1990. He also has served with
distinction as associate vice president, acting vice president, and
interim vice president for research, and, most recently, as vice
president for research since January 1, 1998.
Working with more than two hundred departments, centers,
institutes, and interdisciplinary programs, Vice President Neidhardt
has provided strong and visionary leadership for faculty and students
involved in research during a period of administrative transition. He
has expanded opportunities for undergraduate research, restructured
research support services, and provided a strong voice for scholars and
scientists in their communications with the public, private industry,
and government.
Elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1996,
Vice President Neidhardt is internationally renowned for his studies of
the regulation of gene expression in bacteria and the molecular
physiology of growth of the bacterium Escherichia coli. In addition to
continuing his research, he will serve as president of the Foundation
for Microbiology in 1999.
For his many contributions to the University, particularly his
strong leadership as an executive officer, the Regents extend their
sincere best wishes to Vice President Neidhardt.
The resolution was approved by acclamation, following a standing ovation.
Vice President Neidhardt thanked the Regents and praised the work of
the associate vice presidents and staff of the Office of the Vice President for
Research.
Student Affairs Report. Vice President Hartford described a new
program, "K-Grams," that had been initiated by a student group, Circle K.


155




December Meeting, 1998


The purpose of the program is to establish a strong sense of community
between college students and elementary school children through a pen pal
program. She read notes from a teacher and from a parent about how
valuable the program has been for the participating children.
Medical Affairs Report
M-Care Financial Report. Executive Vice President Omenn reported
that M-Care has a deficit of $8.6 million through the third quarter of
FY1998, and explained that the reasons have to do with expansion of the
physical plant among other factors. He noted that M-Care has an action plan
in place to reverse its financial situation and also has sufficient reserves to
cover the deficits. Ms. Zelda Geyer-Sylvia, executive director of M-Care, said
that while the M-Care organization understands that it must address the
financial issues, it will also continue to provide excellent service to its
customers.
Regent Maynard said that it is important that the Medicare population
continue to be served by M-Care. There was a discussion about how
increased prices for pharmaceuticals are driving up the cost of health
insurance. It was also noted that the Medicare program does not include
coverage for pharmaceuticals.
Emergency Services Patient and Visitor Parking. Responding to
questions that had been raised at the last meeting in regard to the expansion
and renovation of Emergency Services, Executive Vice President Omenn
provided a report on parking for emergency patients and visitors. Dr.
Omenn indicated that patient needs and "patient-friendly service" would
drive the short-term and long-term solutions for parking. Throughout
construction and post-construction, free valet parking would be available to
all emergency services patients and visitors.
Regent Newman observed that the current parking situation is very
difficult for patients and families because overflow lots are often full and
there is at times a wait for valet parking. She also expressed concern about
the limited hours for the pediatric emergency service, noting that it is
difficult for patients and families to have to take pediatric patients to the
adult emergency area. Further discussion by the Regents emphasized other
challenges related to the accessibility of short and long-term parking, and
some suggestions were provided to increase the number of spaces.
Executive Vice President Omenn and Executive Vice President Kasdin
agreed to review the suggestions.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted the report on
Voluntary Support for November 1998.
Aeroquip Foundation, Jackson
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute...................................................$ 6,500
David D. Alger, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 20,000
Frederick M. Alger III, Geneva, Switzerland
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 50,155


156




December Meeting, 1998


American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the Comprehensive Cancer
Center and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 116,444
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the School of Public Health...............................  13,207
American Foundation for Urological Disease, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School...................................... 7,417
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Ameritech Learning Initiative Fund and for employee
matching  gifts......................................................  458,802
William J. Anderson, Ann Arbor
for aerospace engineering support in the College of Engineering............. 11,707
Anonymous Donor
for support in the School of Business Administration..................... 334,000
Anonymous Donor
15,000 shares of KeyCorp common stock
for the Dean's Distinguished Professorship in Chinese Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 457,031
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the Institute for Social Research...... 27,980
A. Adnan Aswad, Birmingham
for the Adnan Aswad Endowed Scholarship at the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn..................................................  10,000
Charles W. Attwood Foundation, Canton
for scholarships in the College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, in memory of Charles Attwood................................. 8,000
Baldwin Foundation, Grand Rapids
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning,
for the Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center in the College of
Engineering and for the Baldwin Fellowship in Astronomy
and the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................... 23,000
Barr Group, Inc., Southfield
for the Varsity Tennis Complex and the Yost Arena Renovation
Fund in the Department of Athletics.................................... 50,000
BASF Corporation, Mount Olive, New Jersey
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering............. 10,000
Leonard J. Baxt, Washington, DC
for support of the Law School.......................................... 10,000
Benchmarking Partners, Bloomfield Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute.................................................... 10,000
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Henry A. Bergstrom Child Welfare Law Program Fund
in  the  Law   School....................................................  50,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
514 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for research in the College of Engineering and the Medica School........... 40,391
Besser Company, Alpena
for scholarships in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning........... 9,000
Bloomfield Township Fire Department, Bloomfield Hills
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund in the
M edical School.......................................................  10,000
Benjamin Boyce Trust
for the  University Library...........................................   33,467
BP Exploration and Oil, Inc., Houston, Texas
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Maxine Corliss Briggs Irrevocable Trust
for the  Clements Library..............................................  14,650
William T. Bryan Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 25,000
Elizabeth Evans Cassidy Trust
for the Raymund and Elizabeth Cassidy Endowed Book Fund and
other support in the University Library................................. 836,036
Ming-Hsiong Chang, Taipei, Taiwan
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Clannad Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Art and Design.............................. 10,000


157




December Meeting, 1998


Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
400 shares of Knape & Vogt Manufacturing Company common stock
for the University Library and the University Musical Society................ 7,275
Cooper Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............. 11,000
Coopers & LybrandFoundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts........................................... 13,872
Sheila A. Crowley, Ann Arbor
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in
Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................  10,000
Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
for research in the Medical School.....................................   5,000
Laura J. Currie, Midland
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics........... 10,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School........................... 18,750
Joel P. Davis, Boston, Massachusetts
225 shares of Gillette Company common stock
for ophthalmology research in the Medical School......................... 10,666
Eugenia Delahunte Revocable Living Trust
for support in the School of Music...................................   102,221
Deloitte & Touche Foundation, Hermitage, Tennessee
for Employee Matching Gifts........................................... 83,756
Delta Dental Fund, Okemos
for continuing education support in the School of Dentistry.................. 5,000
Charles DeVlieg Foundation, Detroit
for the DeVlieg Fellowship and Scholarship Fund and the Program
in Manufacturing in the College of Engineering........................... 36,000
Diebold Foundation, Southbury, Connecticut
for the Middle English Dictionary Gift Fund............................. 10,000
Angelo and Margaret DiPonio Foundation, Livonia
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 50,000
Mary Hunter Dobson, Ann Arbor
for the Mary Hunter Dobson Scholarship in the Center for the
Education of Women for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens and
other support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
and for the Michigan League Development Fund, the Clements
Library and the Museum   of Art..........................................  6,500
Donnelly Corporation, Holland
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute...............................................    7,500
Dover Fund, Inc., San Francisco, California
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
James S. Duesenberrv, Belmont, Massachusetts
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
Elastizell Corporation of America, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.......................................  5,000
Electronic Data Systems, Piano, Texas
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering......... 10,999
S. Cody Engle, Chicago, Illinois
3,700 shares of CNA Surety Corporation common stock
for research in the Institute for Social Research........................... 50,644
John D. Evans Foundation, Middleburg, Virginia
for the John  D. Evans Fund...........................................  150,000
First Chicago NBD Corporation, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts............................................  5,050
Flint Community Schools, Flint
for WFUM-TV.........................                               6,400
Flint River Valley Chapter of Michigan Steelhead and Salmon Fisherman's
Association, Lapeer for WFUM-TV.......................................  5,553
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Art Museum Project Fund, and for support in the School of
Engineering and the Center for Engineering Education and Practice
at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................ 100,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for the Center for Afro-American and African Studies in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................  150,000


158




December Meeting, 1998


Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Stanley D. Frankel Entrepreneurship Fund in the School
of Business Administration, and for the Frankel Fellowships in
Jewish Communal Service in the School of Social Work....................  31,500
Frederick W. Gehring, Ann Arbor
335 shares of Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Frederick W. and Lois B. Gehring Mathematics Professorship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 19,683
Genentech Foundation for Growth & Development, Charlottesville, Virginia
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  20,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for research in the Transportation Research Institute...................... 30,000
Bruce A. Gershenson, Franklin
for the Bruce and Suzy Gershenson Dean's Merit Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................... 5,000
Goldman Sachs Fund, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
Bush Helzberg Fund, Kansas City, Missouri
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
Francis E. Heydt, Miami, Oklahoma
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics..................... 10,000
Keith B. Hook, Glastonbury, Connecticut
200 shares of Life Technologies, Inc., common stock
for the  Clem ents Library............................................... 7, 431
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for research, scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................... 618,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health............................... 83,074
John F. Joity, Houston, Texas
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts..........................................................  5,0 00
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Institute for Research on Women and Gender............. 9,397
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................... 18,535
Kajima Foundation, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey
for the Kajima Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts............................. 5,000
Charles C. Killin, Tulsa, Oklahoma
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts..............................................................  6,000
Knight Foundation, Miami, Florida
for the America Reads Program, and for the Michigan Journalism Fellows
Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............ 695,929
Barbara L. Koegel, Flint
for the Founding Faculty Music Scholarship at the University of
M ichigan-Flint........................................................  5,000
Lear Corporation, Southfield
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn....................................................  5,000
Jay J. Levin, West Bloomfield
988 shares of Walgreen Company common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 50,512
Thomas C. Liebman, Barrington, Illinois
for the  Clements Library...............................................  5,500
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for Employee Matching Gifts...........................................  32,710
Arthur D. Little, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
Lucent Technologies Foundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts...........................................  10,471
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education, and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the Arts................................................  330,000
Vivian Malik, Los Alamos, New Mexico
6,210 shares of Janus Worldwide mutual fund
for the Dr. John Malik Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate  Studies....................................................  248,976


159




December Meeting, 1998


March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  33,325
MascoTech, Inc., Fraser
for Employee Matching Gifts............................................ 5,000
Garry L. McDaniels, Ellicott City, Maryland
500 shares of Learning Company, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Education...................................  9,500
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Music, and for WUOM/WVGR.................. 9,500
Violet Gay Most Estate
for student financial aid....                                      13,130
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for research in the School of Public Health.............................. 198,349
Miriam Mueschke Estate
for the Paul and Miriam Mueschke Memorial Scholarship in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 58,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  51,313
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School..................................... 134,009
National City Bank, Cleveland, Ohio
for emergency services support in the University Hospitals................. 15,000
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................ 37,234
NBD of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for W UOM /W VGR....................................................  10,500
Osram Sylvania, Inc., Danvers, Massachusetts
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment........... 15,000
Michael M. Paparella, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Clinical Otology Research Award Fund in the Medical School......... 10,000
Donald H. Parsons, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Office for the Study of Private Equity Finance in the
School of Business Administration......................................  25,000
Pepsi-Cola Company, Somer, New York
for the Pepsi-Cola Athletic Scholarship in the Department of Athletics....... 50,000
Steven W. Percy, Akron, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the Medical School, and for Employee Matching Gifts.......... 6,050
Pharmacia and Upjohn, Inc., Kalamazoo
for the J. Wagner Memorial Lectureship Fund in the College of Pharmacy.... 50,000
James H. Poppy, Hailey, Idaho
2,000 shares of Fleet Financial Group, Inc., common stock
for the James H. and Martha Chandler Poppy Scholarship.................. 80,750
Price Waterhouse Foundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching  Gifts...........................................  16,250
Edward Ravitz, Southfield
for support in the Medical School......................................  100,000
William B. Richards, Findlay, Ohio
92 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for the Margaret I. and G. William Richards Memorial
Scholarship in the College of Engineering................................ 10,080
Joel K. Riley, Mason
2,454 shares of Comerica, Inc., common stock and
734 shares of Energy West Corporation common stock
for the Joel K. and Ruth French Riley Charitable Remainder
Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Law School and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 186,777
Bernard B. Rinella, Chicago Illinois
for the Bernard B. and Gloria L. Rinella Award Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 5,000
Sylvia S. Roach Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.................... 284,077
Kenneth J. Robinson, Ann Arbor
for the Judy and Ken Robinson Endowment in the Medical School............ 5,200


160




December Meeting, 1998


Roche Laboratories, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  30,000
Marguerite Roll Estate
for the Lyle C. Roll Fund in the Medical School............................ 7,333
Peter J. Rosewig, Stuart, Florida
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............. 5,000
Rudolph-Libbe, Inc., Canton
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of
Michigan-Dearborn..........................................   20,000
SAE International, Warrendale, Pennsylvania
for the Seating Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation
Research Institute..................................................  200,000
William W. Saulson, Southfield
959 shares of Oracle Corporation common stock
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the
School of Business Administration...................................... 29,969
Schering Sales Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School and for the Ann Arbor Flower
Show presented by the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  11,000
Frederick E. Schmid, Dexter
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
G.D. Searle & Company, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.......................... 14,655
Shell Oil Company, Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in
Porous Media in the College of Engineering.............................. 20,000
Sherriff Charitable Gift Fund, Clifton Park, New York
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 12,500
Amy R. Silverman, New York, New York
for the History of Art Department in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..................................................  5,000
Herbert Sloan, Jr., M.D., Trust
for the University Musical Society......................................  20,000
SmithKline Beecham, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for support in  the Medica  School........................................  5,000
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council, New York, New York
for research in the School of Dentistry................................... 21,957
Solutia, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri
for the James Carpenter Exhibit and Lecture Fund in the College of
Architecture and Urban  Planning........................................  7,950
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education................................  205,825
Nancy Bassett Sunday Estate
for the Charles W. and Nancy Bassett Sunday Scholarship in the
School of Music............................................. 5,788
Michele T. Takei, Portola Valley, California
230 shares of Sun Microsystems, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 15,597
G. Leonard Teitelbaum, Holmdel, New Jersey
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Robert E. Terkhorn Castle Rock, Colorado
125 shares of itigroup, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 5,559
Robert P. Thome, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Tilles Investment Company, Woodbury, New York
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in
the University  Library.........................................    5,000
Richard F. Towner, Venice, Florida
500 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock
for the Richard F. Towner Charitable Remainder Unitrust
Fund for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering................. 45,328
Ruth L. Townsend, Farmington Hills
for the Sudden Hearing Loss Research Fund in the Kresge Hearing
Research  Institute....................................             5,000
Thomas and Sally Troyer Fund, Washington, DC
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000


161




December Meeting, 1998


TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 25,000
Jonathan Uhr, Dallas, Texas
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the
School of Business Administration......................................  10,000
Union Carbide Foundation, Inc., Danbury, Connecticut
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering.............. 5,000
United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in Rabbinic
Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... 20,000
Donia Vakuf Foundation, La Jolla, California
for the  University  Library...............................................  5,000
Robert J. Vlasic, Bloomfield Hills
4,924 shares of Campbell Soup Company common stock
for the Robert J. Vlasic Dean of Engineering Fund in the
College of Engineering...............................................  258,356
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Deerfield, Illinois
68,200 shares of Walgreen Company common stock
for the  President's Fund............................................  3,071,131
Nancy W. Walls, Stone Mountain, Georgia
for the Nancy W. Walls Dean's Merit Scholarship in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................... 10,000
Evelyn Watkins, Harrisonburg, Virginia
for the Leonard L. Watkins Endowment in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  10,000
Marshall Weinberg Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Marshall M. Weinberg Distinguished Visiting Professorship
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 600,000
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington Virginia
for research, scholarships and fellowships in the College
of Engineering......................................................  283,779
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Rolling Meadows, Illinois
for the Doris B. and Frank O. Westover Scholarship and the
Elizabeth V. and Charles W. Gauss II Scholarship m the
School of Business Administration......................................  11,000
Laurence P. Winship, Minneapolis, Minnesota
200 shares of J.C. Penney Company common stock
for the Arthur W. and Mary C. Bromage Fellowship in the School
of Public Policy......................... 10,413
Marian E. Wright, Flint
725 shares of Templeton Growth Fund mutual Fund
for the Marion E. Wright Computer Writing Classroom
Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint............................... 12,000
Wyeth Ayerst American Home Products Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for support in the Medical School, and the College of Pharmacy.............. 8,000
Samuel ZelI Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sam Zell Dean's Tactical Fund in the Law School.................. 100,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Alfred Berkowitz, Birmingham
glass artwork for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Berkowitz Gallery
Josephine Calkins, Lacey, Washington
a watercolor painting entitled, "The Botanical Garden" by Kingsley Calkins for the
University of Michigan-Dearborn Berkowitz Gallery
Dexter Manufacturing, Inc, Chelsea
machining work for the Solar Car Project
Alexander T. Hetzeck, Fall River, Massachusetts
photographs for the Medical Center Alumni and Development Office
Peerless Mattress & Furniture Company, Flint
furniture for the University of Michigan-Flint
William Stamelos, Fort Myers, Florida
a painting entitled, "Neptune's Garden" by Lula Nestor for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn Berkowitz Gallery


162




December Meeting, 1998


Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors
Robert Caldwell, Ann Arbor            Sabine G. MacCormack, Ann Arbor
Julie Colish, Flint                   Edward P. Mahony, Ann Arbor
Thomas F. Crandell, Chelsea           Patrick J. Palmer, Clio
James L. Curtis, Jamaica, New York    James I. Porter, Ann Arbor
George A. Eastman, Naples, Florida    Joseph Rife, Ann Arbor
Stefan Karadian, West Bloomfield      Henry G. Schermers, Leiden,
Deborah Lyons, Ann Arbor                   Netherlands
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor requested that the Board in
Control of Intercollegiate Athletics appointment recommendation be
withdrawn from the table. Vice President Neidhardt commented on the
reappointment of Julie Ellison as associate vice president for research.
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1999
Chow, Chi Loong, Chair, Department of Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn College of
Engineering and Computer Science, one year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective December 31, 1998, unless otherwise indicated
Burns, Mark A., Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering
Ewing, Rodney C., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, College
of Engineering, January 1, 1999
Freed, Gary L., Professor of Health Management and Policy, without tenure, School of
Public Health, January 1, 1999
James, Sherman A., Chair, Department of Health Behavior and Health Education, School of
Public Health, three year term, July 1, 1999
Lichter, Allen S., Interim Dean, Medical School
Najafi, Khalil, Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering
Thouless, Michael D., Associate Professor of Materials and Science Engineering, without
tenure, College of Engineering, January 1, 1999
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointments to Professorships
Kato, Mikiro, Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, March 1-May 7, 1999
Long, Charles H., University of Michigan Presidential Professor, January 1-May 1,1999
Powers, Martin J., Sally Michelson Davidson Professor of Chinese Arts and Cultures, five
year term, September 1, 1998
Change in Academic Administrative Appointment
Soper, Katharine B., from Assistant Associate Provost to Assistant Provost, Office of the
Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs, December 21, 1998


163




December Meeting, 1998


Other Transactions
Ellison, Julie, Associate Vice President for Research, Office of Vice President for Research,
five month term, January 1, 1999
Ulaby, Fawwaz, Interim Vice President for Research, January 1, 1999
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
UM-Dearbon College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
Summers, Claude J., December 1-December 31, 1998, for purposes of tenure and promotion
deliberations, vice Jonathan Smith
Schneider, Michael J., December 1-December 31, 1998, for purposes of tenure and promotion
deliberations, vice Marilee B. Parsons
James, David A., December 1-December 31, 1998, for purposes of tenure and promotion
deliberations vice Patricia K. Smith
Personnel reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Brown, Kenneth R., Lecturer II in American Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1998
Guslits, Benjamin G., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School,
November 15, 1998-November 14, 1999
Haritash, Heather L., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, January 1 -May 31, 1999
Morenoff, Jeffrey D., M.A., Instructor in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts January 1, 1999-May 31, 2001
Runey, Kathleen A., M.F.A., Lecturer in Theatre, School of Music, November 16, 1998 -May 31, 1999
CORRECTIONS TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Leicht, Leslie B., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, Medical School, October 1, 1998-September 30, 1999
Marcovici, Iacob, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical
School, October 15, 1998- June 30, 1999
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
McCracken, Gail K., Lecturer in Business Law, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2001
Walton, Sarah R., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical
School, October 1, 1998-September 30, 1999
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective July 1, 1998-June 30, 1999
Henley, Keith S., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Mikkelsen, William M., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School
164




December Meeting, 1998


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1-May 31, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Apple, Charles G., Associate Professor of Communication, with tenure, and Chair,
Department of Communication, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, sabbatical leave
Bahti, Timothy H., Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures and Comparative
Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
January 1-December 31, 1999
Bissell, R. Ward, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave
Bix, Robert A., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave
Bolling, G. Fredric, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College
of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1999
Carty, Linda E., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave
Dalton, Jackie F., Assistant Professor of Nursing, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies, extended sick leave, November 4, 1998-January 14, 1999
Dauwe, Loretta J., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Frishancho, Andres R., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave
Gough, Maria E., Assistant Professor of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, duty off campus
Grew, Raymond, Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, retirement furlough, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Higgs, Elton D., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, retirement furlough (phased), September 1, 1999 -April 30, 2001
Kahn, Margaret F., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave
Knoll, Glenn F., Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with tenure,
College of Engineering, administrative leave
Lieberthal, Kenneth G., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, Professor of Political Science, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, William David Professor of
Business Administration and Professor of Business Administration, without tenure,
School of Business of Administration, intergovernmental personnel assignment,
September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
Lin, Shuen-Fi, Professor of Chinese Languages and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus
Myers, Steven F., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Nussbaum, Ronald A., Professor of Zoology, with tenure, and Curator, Museum of Zoology, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, November 1-December 31, 1998
Poore, Gene A., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, personal leave
Robins, Diane M., Associate Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, Medical School,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1998-February 28, 1999
Schmidt, Brian B., Associate Professor of Hebrew Bible, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave
Zhang, Jun, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 1999
CORRECTION TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Nisbett, Richard E., Theodore M. Newcomb Distinguished University Professor of
Psychology and Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave September 1-December 31, 1998 (previously reported as
September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999


165




December Meeting, 1998


TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Crutchfield, Susan, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1998
Matthews, Steven J., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Dearborn School of Education,
December 31, 1998
Paul, William J., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Film and Video Studies, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1999
Rogers, Ann E., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing,
December 31, 1998
Retired
Datta, Prasanta K., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1998
Jokelainen, Pentti T., Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure,
December 21, 1998
Vinh, N. X., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
December 31, 1998
Wheeler, James E., Professor of Accounting, with tenure, School of Business Administration,
December 31, 1998
Term Completed
Gunn, Sondra M., Assistant Professor Emerita of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
December 24, 1998
Scobey, David M., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 1998
Homan, Dominic F., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, October 31, 1998
Retirement memoirs. Memoirs for a number of retiring faculty
members were submitted for adoption.
Marjorie A. Barritt, archivist, will retire from the Bentley Historical
Library on December 31, 1998.
Ms. Barritt received her B.A. degree in 1960 from Blackburn College,
Carlinville, Illinois, and her M.A. degree in 1982 from the University of
Michigan. She was hired as an assistant archivist at the Bentley Historical
Library in 1982 and was promoted to associate archivist in 1988 and archivist
in 1996.
At the Bentley Library, Ms. Barritt headed the University Archives and
Records Program (UARP), which was a relatively new initiative in 1982. Ms.
Barritt began contacting the University's major units to urge that they handle
their historical and inactive records in a systematic way by transferring those
records of historical value to the Bentley Library. As a result of her efforts,
the Bentley's holdings for University units increased dramatically. She also
established the records holdings facility in the Fleming Building, which
assured the orderly transfer of administrative records to the Bentley and
promoted better records management within the central administration.
During her tenure, Ms. Barritt developed records policies and guidelines;
issued a descriptive guide to assist users in gaining access to historical
archives; and conducted research on legal rights to privacy and access. Her
Guide to the Archives of the University of Michigan contains a comprehensive
listing of the extant University records and related faculty papers.
Ms. Barritt was among the first Americans ever to participate in courses
offered by the Archiefschool in The Hague, and her subsequent work in the
166




December Meeting, 1998


National Archives for Utrecht, The Netherlands, has been recognized as a
lasting contribution. She has been coeditor of the "International Scene"
section of the American Archivist, the premier archival journal in the U.S. In
1992, she was named "Reporter for the United States" for Archivum, the
journal of the International Council on Archives (ICA). She also was
conference coordinator for the ICA's Second European Conference on
Archives and was appointed its first chair. As a result of her work, university
archivists from around the world can work cooperatively on records issues.
The Regents now salute this distinguished archivist for her dedicated
service by naming Marjorie A. Barritt archivist emerita.
Howard M. Bunch, associate professor of ship production science,
Department of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, College of
Engineering, and research scientist, University of Michigan Transportation
Research Institute, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1998.
Professor Bunch received his B.B.A. degree in 1949 and his M.B.A.
degree in 1958, both from the University of Texas. He came to the University
of Michigan in 1976 as a transportation research projects manager at the
Highway Safety Research Institute (now known as the University of Michigan
Transportation Research Institute (UMTRI)). In 1979, he was appointed
lecturer in the Department of Naval Architecture & Marine Engineering
(NAME). He was promoted to associate professor in 1979 and became a
research scientist at UMTRI in 1983.
Professor Bunch established the Marine Systems Division at UMTRI in
1982 and served for twelve years as its head. In 1985-86, he was acting
director of UMTRI. From 1986-88, he served as special assistant to the
undersecretary of the U.S. Navy. Most recently, he was associate director of
the Office of Naval Research-Europe. He holds a continuing appointment as
senior visiting lecturer at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and has
been named "Honorary Professor for Life" at the Zhenziang Shipbuilding
Institute of the People's Republic of China.
At NAME, Professor Bunch introduced a sequence of courses in ship
production and organized a unique summer internship program to give
students practical shipbuilding experience. He quickly became well known in
the U.S. shipbuilding industry and was asked to become editor of a new
publication of the Society of Naval Architects & Marine Engineers, Journal of
Ship Production. For his contributions to the society, he has been named a
fellow and has received the society's William H. Webb medal for outstanding
contributions to education.
Professor Bunch has won widespread recognition and awards for his
service on several national committees, for his extensive technical
publications, and for his energetic organizational achievements, both on and
off campus. His special short courses at both Michigan and M.I.T. have
attracted international acclaim and have brought prestige to the University.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Howard M.
Bunch associate professor emeritus of ship production science and research
scientist emeritus.
Lynn A. Conway, professor of electrical engineering and computer
science, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1998.


167




December Meeting, 1998


Professor Conway received her B.S. and M.S.E.E. degrees, in 1962 and
1963, respectively, from Columbia University. Between 1964-85, she worked
at IBM, Memorex Corporation, Xerox Palo Alto Research Center, and at the
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), with service as a
visiting associate professor at M.I.T. in 1978. She joined the University of
Michigan in 1985 as professor of electrical engineering and computer science
and associate dean of the College of Engineering.
At IBM, Professor Conway contributed major innovations to super
computer system architecture. At Xerox, she became internationally known as
a pioneer of microelectronics for innovations in design methods that
influenced VLSI chip design worldwide. She also co-authored the classic
textbook, Introduction to VLSI Systems and developed the "MOSIS" system, a
national infrastructure for rapid prototyping of VLSI chips by universities and
research organizations. Later, at DARPA, she was the technical architect and
leader of planning for the defense department's Strategic Computing Initiative,
a major research program aimed at innovation in machine intelligence
technology.
As associate dean in the College of Engineering, Professor Conway
contributed to many research and instructional initiatives during the period
of rapid expansion of the College of Engineering on North Campus in the late
1980s and early 1990s, including leading the college's efforts in development,
planning, and design of the Media Union. In recent years, she focused on the
emerging area of visual communications and control, leading to five U.S.
patents for her inventions.
Among the many awards Professor Conway has received during her
35-year career are the Wetherill Medal of the Franklin Institute, the
Meritorious Achievement Award from the Secretary of Defense, the National
Achievement Award of the Society of Women Engineers, an honorary
doctorate from Trinity College, election as a fellow of the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, and election to the National Academy of
Engineering.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Lynn A.
Conway professor emerita of electrical engineering and computer science.
Prasanta K. Datta, professor of biological chemistry, will retire from
active faculty status on December 31, 1998, after a most productive career as
a teacher and researcher.
Born in Calcutta, India, Professor Datta received his B.Sc. (1949) and
M.S. (1951) degrees from Calcutta University and his Ph.D. degree (1956)
from the University of Washington in Seattle. After completing his postdoctoral
studies, he went to Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri, as an assistant
research professor and research associate from 1961-65. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty in 1966 as an assistant professor in the
Department of Biological Chemistry; he was promoted to associate professor
in 1968 and professor in 1976.
Professor Datta has been an invaluable faculty member in the
Department of Biological Chemistry. He has been an outstanding and
dedicated teacher and has been extremely active with committee participation
at all levels of the University as well as internationally. Professor Datta was


168




December Meeting, 1998


one of the founding members of the University's Graduate Program in
Cellular and Molecular Biology.
Professor Datta has had more than 30 consecutive years of research
support from the National Institutes of Health for his research in the areas of
gene structure and regulation of expression, control of enzyme function by
cellular metabolites, and molecular evolution. He has been an invited speaker
at numerous national and international symposia and seminars, and was
research advisor for more than 25 doctoral and postdoctoral trainees and a
dozen undergraduate students. Professor Datta was awarded two separate
National Institutes of Health special research fellowships for sabbatical leaves
at the Salk Institute and Stanford University. He was also a United Nations
visiting professor at the Indian Agricultural Research Institute in New Delhi,
India.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his
dedicated service as a teacher and researcher by naming Prasanta K. Datta
professor emeritus of biological chemistry.
Pentti T. Jokelainen, M.D., associate professor of anatomy and cell
biology, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1998, after a
25-year career of teaching and research at the University of Michigan.
Dr. Jokelainen received his formal education in Finland. He was
awarded his M.D. degree in 1960 and his Ph.D. degree in 1963, both from the
University of Helsinki. A postdoctoral year at New York Medical College in
1963-64 was supported by a Fulbright Fellowship. Following this, he accepted
an appointment at the New York Medical College in 1964 as an instructor of
anatomy and was promoted to the rank of assistant professor of anatomy in
1967. In 1972, Dr. Jokelainen was named acting director of the electron
microscopy laboratory at the University of Turku in Finland; he was named a
docent there in 1973. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1974 as
an associate professor of anatomy.
Dr. Jokelainen's early research constituted a groundbreaking study of
the ultra structure of the developing kidney. This research still stands as one
of the definitive works in this field. Somewhat later, he carried out some
technically demanding electron microscopic work on cell organelles during cell
division.
At the University of Michigan, Dr. Jokelainen divided his career between
teaching gross anatomy to medical students and conducting research on
hypertension. His hypertension research involved a meticulous study of the
genetics of a special strain of hypertensive rats.
The Regents now salute this teacher and researcher for his dedicated
service to the University of Michigan by naming Pentti T. Jokelainen
associate professor emeritus of anatomy and cell biology.
Yasuko Matsudo, assistant head/curator of the Japanese Collection
and senior associate librarian, retired from the University Library on
September 30, 1998, after 10 years of service.
A native of Japan, Ms. Matsudo received her B.A. degree in English
literature in 1958 from Tsuda College in Tokyo, Japan, and her M.L.S. degree
in 1970 from the State University of New York at Albany. From 1971-75, she
was the senior Japanese cataloger at Yale University. She then became the


169




December Meeting, 1998


catalog coordinator at the Bryn Mawr College Library and the Haverford
College Library. From 1977-80, she was the catalog editor at the University
of Notre Dame Library. She returned to Japan in 1980 as head of the
cataloging department at the Sophia University Library in Tokyo, and in
1984 became its assistant director. She joined the staff of the University
Library in 1988 as assistant head and curator of the Japanese Collection of
the Asia Library.
Ms. Matsudo has made significant contributions to the continued
development of the Japanese Collection, which is one of the most
comprehensive library resources for Japanese Studies outside of Asia. She
has coordinated the Asia Library's acquisitions and serial operations and
served as the major liaison with Japanese Studies faculty and students. In
more recent years, she has been actively engaged in the teaching of library
resources and has participated in the development of electronic resources
related to Asian Studies.  She has provided bibliographic guidance to
numerous visiting scholars and has further enhanced the outreach efforts of
the University Library.
Ms. Matsudo has been active professionally, both in Japan and in the
United States. She was the chair of the Japanese Materials Committee and
produced for the Association for Research Libraries the survey report
assessing American acquisitions of Japanese publications. For the National
Coordinating Council, she provided leadership in the Japanese Art Exhibition
Catalog Project, leading to a deposit system that services these resources.
Ms. Matsudo's broad subject knowledge and dedicated services will be
missed by her library colleagues and by the University's Japanese Studies
community.
The Regents now salute this curator and librarian by naming Yasuko
Matsudo senior associate librarian emerita.
Alan C. Menge, associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology in the
Medical School and associate research scientist in the Reproductive Sciences
Program, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1998, after a
most productive career as a researcher, teacher, and contributor to the
reproductive success of countless couples.
Professor Menge received his B.S. degree in 1956 from the University of
Illinois and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in 1961 from the University of
Wisconsin. He joined the faculty of Rutgers University in 1961 and came to
the University of Michigan in 1967 as an associate professor, having been
recruited by the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology to establish a basic
research program in reproductive immunology in conjunction with the clinical
program directed by S. J. Behrman, M.D.
Professor Menge built the preeminent unit studying the immunology of
reproduction, markedly expanding the knowledge base of the immunobiology
of sperm and developing clinical assays that are still in use today. He trained
a generation of fellows and clinicians and was an active member of the
educational program of the department.
From 1979-80, Professor Menge was a Fogarty Senior International
Fellow at Uppsala University, Sweden. He was vice chair in 1980 and chair in
1982 of the biannual Gordon Research Conference on the Mammalian Genital
Tract. From 1990-91, he was a visiting scientist at the University of Alabama


170




December Meeting, 1998


at Birmingham.   In 1994, he established the Laboratory of Assisted
Reproductive Technologies at the University of Michigan in support of the
clinical program. There he refined a number of techniques, leading to his
certification in 1995 as a high complexity clinical laboratory director.
Professor Menge has achieved an international reputation for his work in
reproductive immunology and is known for his thoughtful and ethical
approach to a field strewn with ethical land mines. His absence will be felt
deeply, both by his colleagues and by couples who have benefited from his
work.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher and researcher in
reproductive sciences for his dedicated service by naming Alan C. Menge
associate professor emeritus of obstetrics and gynecology and associate
research scientist emeritus.
Richard E. Sonntag, professor of mechanical engineering, will retire
from active faculty status on December 31, 1998, after a distinguished career
spanning more than 35 years as an educator and scholar in the field of
thermodynamics.
A native of Illinois, Professor Sonntag received his B.S.E. degree in 1956,
his M.S.E. degree in 1957, and his Ph.D. degree in 1961, all in mechanical
engineering from the University of Michigan. He joined the faculty in 1961 as
an assistant professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering. He was
promoted to associate professor in 1963 and professor in 1967. He served as
acting chair of the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics from 1981-82 and as chair from 1982-92.
Professor Sonntag's research and publications have focused on
thermodynamics, including equations of state, equilibrium, properties, new
refrigerants, and Helmholtz function representation. A fellow of the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), he has served on several ASME
committees and has been vice chair and chair of the Region V Department
Heads. He is the co-author of the widely-used textbook, Fundamentals of
Thermodynamics, and the co-author of a new book, Thermodynamic and
Transport Properties.
Within the University, Professor Sonntag served on numerous
committees and task forces, including the College of Engineering Executive
Committee, North Campus Renovation Committee, Building I Planning
Committee, UMTRI Executive Committee, and the College Scholastic
Standing Committee. He also served on the Rackham  Graduate School
Divisional Board, University Senate Assembly, and Rackham Fellowship
Committee.
Professor Sonntag's contributions to the department are truly
exemplary. During his tenure as chair, he earned a strong reputation for
dedicated leadership, vision, and commitment. Professor Sonntag also served
as chair of the department's graduate programs and on its Program
Committee, Graduate Committee, Evaluation Committee, and Chair Search
Committee. In 1992, he received the department's Excellence in Service
Award.
The Regents salute this distinguished educator and scholar by naming
Richard E. Sonntag professor emeritus of mechanical engineering.


171




December Meeting, 1998


Paul L. Stewart, Catherine B. Heller Collegiate Professor of Art and
professor of art in the School of Art and Design, will retire from active faculty
status on December 31, 1998.
Professor Stewart received his B.A. degree from Albion College in 1953
and his M.A. degree from the University of Michigan in 1959. From 1959-73
he taught printmaking at Albion College. He joined the faculty of the
University of Michigan in 1973 as an assistant professor and was promoted to
associate professor in 1974 and professor in 1979. He was named the
Catherine B. Heller Collegiate Professor of Art on May 1, 1995.
Professor Stewart is a prolific artist who is internationally recognized.
He has a distinguished and lengthy record of exhibitions, and his work has
been included in hundreds of national and international shows for which he
has received numerous coveted awards. His work is included in many
prestigious museums and in private collections all over the world, including
the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York; the National Gallery of Art
and the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C.; the Detroit Institute of Art;
and in galleries and museums in Poland, Italy, Norway, and Brazil.
An avid researcher in printmaking, Professor Stewart's technical
preparation and innovative processes have contributed directly to the
University of Michigan's reputation as a center for advanced innovative
practices in lithography. His specialization in planographic techniques evolved
directly from his own work as an artist, and his work has consistently pressed
the limits of current artistic and technical boundaries.
As a teacher, Professor Stewart's extraordinary ability to elicit high
levels of performance and energy from his students through gentle insistence
on the highest standards was recognized in 1983 by a University of Michigan
Distinguished Teaching Award. He has been instrumental in advancing the
field of lithography nationally through the many master printers and artists
whose careers began under his tutelage.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Paul L. Stewart
the Catherine B. Heller Collegiate Professor Emeritus of Art and professor
emeritus of art.
Edward E. Sullivan, professor of education at the University of
Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1998.
Professor Sullivan received his B.S. degree in 1961 from Western
Michigan University and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees, in 1963 and 1966,
respectively, from the University of Michigan. He taught in two Michigan
public schools in 1961-62 and 1965-66 and joined the faculty of the University
of Michigan-Flint as an assistant professor in 1966. He was promoted to
associate professor in 1970 and professor in 1976.
During his more than 30 years on the faculty, Professor Sullivan taught
courses in the social foundations of education and instructional technology
and supervised student teachers and practicum students. He played a
leadership role in establishing the education department's undergraduate
foundation block and in establishing the department's first courses in
educational technology. More than anyone, he was responsible for the
creation of the department's first computer lab and took the initiative to
ensure the required upgrading of the lab's hardware and software. Professor
Sullivan served as the education department chair on three separate


172




December Meeting, 1998


occasions, from 1978-79, from 1983-86, and from 1989-93. In 1972, he served
as acting department chair and director of secondary education student
teaching.
Professor Sullivan was also an active researcher. He is the author of
Educational and Social Change (1968), a number of refereed journal articles,
and numerous conference presentations. In recent years, his research has
focused on the area of educational technology. During his tenure at the
University of Michigan-Flint, he has also served on a number of
departmental, college, and University committees. He has also been actively
involved in the community, having served as a member of the Grand Blanc
Michigan Board of Education from 1972-75 and as the board's vice president
in 1975.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Edward E.
Sullivan professor emeritus of education.
Julia C. Tai, professor of chemistry, Department of Natural Sciences,
University of Michigan-Dearborn, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 1998.
Professor Tai received her B.S. degree from the National Taiwan
University, Taiwan, Republic of China, in 1957, her M.S. degree from the
University of Oklahoma in 1959, and her Ph.D. degree from the University of
Illinois in 1963. From 1963-66 and 1967-68, she was a research associate at
Wayne State University, and it was during this time that she began her
research in computational chemistry and molecular modeling in collaboration
with Dr. N. Allinger. From 1968-69, she was a visiting professor at the
National Taiwan University. She joined the faculty at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn in 1969 as an assistant professor of chemistry and was
promoted to associate professor in 1973 and professor in 1979.
The 30-year span of Professor Tai's research career parallels the
development of computational chemistry and reflects the tremendous
improvement in the technology available for complex computations. She
participated in the development of MMI and MMPI, two powerful
computational strategies for solving the mathematics used in describing
complex molecules. The difficulties of simplifying complex calculations while
retaining details of interest to chemists, such as those that may predict
properties of chemicals, cannot be underestimated.
For her achievements in research, in 1995 Professor Tai received the
Distinguished Faculty Research Award.   She received the Michigan
Association of Governing Boards Award for Distinguished Faculty in 1996.
Professor Tai regularly taught lecture and laboratory courses in physical
chemistry and in introductory chemistry. Her teaching was noted for her
high standards and her high expectations for student achievement. She also
served on numerous committees, including service as chair of the Graduate
Board on the Dearborn campus and as a member of the Committee for a
Multicultural University. Her interest in promoting diversity is reflected in
her participation in UM-Dearborn's Metro Detroit Alliance for Minority
Participation Program and her service on the UM-Dearborn Diversity
Steering Committee.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physical chemist for her
dedicated service by naming Julia C. Tai professor emerita of chemistry.


173




December Meeting, 1998


Nguyen X. Vinh, professor of aerospace engineering, will retire from
active faculty status on December 31, 1998, after a remarkable career as
scholar and educator.
Professor Vinh received engineering and mathematics degrees in France
in 1953 and 1954 and M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in aerospace engineering from
the University of Colorado in 1963 and 1965, respectively. In 1972, he
received his Sc.D. degree in mathematics from the University of Paris. He
was an assistant professor at the University of Colorado from 1965-68. He
joined the University of Michigan as an associate professor without tenure in
1968; he was promoted to associate professor with tenure in 1970 and
professor in 1972.
Professor Vinh has had an exceedingly distinguished career. His
extensive list of publications, consisting of three books and more than one
hundred technical papers, has had a great impact on the field of aerospace
engineering. His honors include the 1994 Mechanics and Control of Flight
Award which recognized his "outstanding contributions to the mathematical
theory of optimal control, applied to the flight mechanics of aerospace vehicles
in the atmosphere and in space." He has been elected as a member of the
International Academy of Astronautics and the French National Academy of
Air and Space and has served on several important editorial boards for
publications in his field. In addition, he received the Excellence in Research
Award from the College of Engineering.
Professor Vinh's educational contributions have been equally
distinguished. An effective and popular teacher, his courses have regularly
received outstanding evaluations from students. He has worked extensively
with many undergraduate and graduate students and has chaired a very large
number of doctoral committees.
Besides his outstanding career as a researcher and educator, Professor
Vinh is widely recognized for his leadership and mentorship to the
Vietnamese community. A widely-read novelist and poet, he was awarded the
prestigious Vietnam National Literature Prize in 1961. He has been much in
demand as a speaker for Vietnamese organizations on such topics as
education, culture, society, and the future of Vietnam and the Vietnamese
people. He is widely recognized as a role model within the Vietnamese
community in North America and elsewhere.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Nguyen X. Vinh
professor emeritus of aerospace engineering.
William A. Werner, professor of architecture in the College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 1998.
Professor Werner received his B.Arch. degree in 1952 and his M.Arch.
degree in 1957, both from the University of Michigan. He joined the faculty
as an instructor in 1956 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1961,
associate professor in 1966, and professor in 1973.
Within the College of Architecture and Urban Planning, Professor
Werner has taught undergraduate level courses in design, structures, and
construction. He served as chair of the Bachelor of Science Program from
1977-83, assistant to the Architecture Program chairperson from 1983 to the
present, and has also served as an active member of many program, college,


174




December Meeting, 1998


and University committees. In 1975, he received the Sol King Award for
Excellent Teaching, in recognition of his deep concern for students, his depth
of classroom preparation, and the clarity of his presentations. In 1998, he
received the Educator of the Year Award from the Architectural Studies
Foundation of Michigan in recognition of a lifetime of dedication to
architectural education.
As an academic advisor, Professor Werner has helped to construct the
careers of hundreds of undergraduate students.   Working with the
University's Office of Undergraduate Admissions, he has thoughtfully
counseled prospective students who are considering a career in architecture.
At the same time, he has worked closely with admitted students to offer
advice and help plan their time in the architecture program to maximize their
potential.
Professor Werner has had an outstanding career as an educator and a
professional in the field of architecture. He is a registered architect in
Michigan, and since 1955, he has worked as an architect with Robert C.
Metcalf. He has been a director and member of the AlA/Michigan and served
in various capacities with the Huron Valley Chapter AIA for many years.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming William A.
Werner professor emeritus of architecture.
James E. Wheeler, professor of accounting in the School of Business
Administration, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1998.
Professor Wheeler received his B.B.A. degree from Bowling Green State
University in 1958 and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of
Illinois in 1962 and 1969, respectively. From 1970-71, he was a visiting
associate professor at the University of Michigan, and from 1971-72, he was
on the staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation of the U.S. Congress.
Professor Wheeler joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1972 as an
associate professor of accounting and was promoted to professor in 1975. In
1986-87, he was a professor in residence with the international branch of the
Internal Revenue Service.
Professor Wheeler is nationally known for his research and presentations
in the areas of accounting for corporate income taxes, international taxation,
and tax policy issues. He has played a major role in the American Taxation
Association, serving on committees, as trustee, and as president. He has
worked closely with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants on
tax policy issues and on the CPA examination.
The author of the textbook, Advanced Accounting: A Professional
Approach, Professor Wheeler brought his real-world expertise into the
classroom to the benefit of hundreds of students over the years. He has been
a mainstay of the accounting department, teaching taxation and advanced
financial accounting.  Professor Wheeler's blend of academic research,
practical and applied expertise, and dedicated teaching have served as an
example to generations of junior faculty and students alike. His contributions
are well-noted and greatly appreciated.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming James E.
Wheeler professor emeritus of accounting.


175




December Meeting, 1998


Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported to the
Regents this month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded
by Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Charitable Remainder Trusts
Executive Vice President Kasdin presented a recommendation for
approval of Mellon Private Capital Management (MPCM) as investment
manager and administrator of the University's charitable remainder unitrust
program, which is currently managed and administered internally by the
University Treasurer's Office. Vice President Feagin noted that the Office of
Development had worked closely with the Treasurer's Office in preparing
this recommendation, and that the University will continue to be the sole
contact with donors and beneficiaries. On a motion by Regent Maynard,
seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents unanimously approved the
appointment of Mellon Private Capital Management (MPCM) as investment
manager and administrator of the University's charitable remainder unitrust
program.
Absolute Return Managers
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of Maverick Capital as an absolute
return manager with an initial funding level of $25 million, subject to a
favorable review of the documents by the general counsel's office.
Changes to Hospital Revenue Bond and Medical Service Plan (MSP)
Revenue Bond Indentures
Executive Vice President Kasdin presented a recommendation for
technical changes to be made in the University's bond indentures. Regent
Taylor moved approval of the following actions, and authorization for the
executive vice president and chief financial officer and associate vice
president and treasurer, or either one of them, to take such actions,
including execution and delivery for and on behalf of the University of any
required documentation, as are necessary to:
1.  amend the Master Indenture of the Hospital Revenue Bonds, under and
pursuant to the provisions of Section 1501(e) thereof, to modify the
definition of the term "Adjusted Net Revenues of the Hospital" in
substantially the manner set forth in the proposed Supplemental Number 2
on file with the vice president and secretary, with such changes as the
executive vice president and chief financial officer or associate vice president
and treasurer may approve; and
2.  amend each of the series indentures, under Section 1401(e) thereof, to
provide for notification to bondholders in the event the University acquires
or changes a liquidity facility provider in connection with the bonds issued
under the respective series indenture; and
3.  amend each of the MSP indentures under the provisions of Section 1401(e)
thereof to provide for notification to bondholders in the event the University


176




December Meeting, 1998


acquires or changes a liquidity facility provider in connection with the bonds
issued under the respective MSP indenture.
Regent Horning seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Edwards Brothers' Request for Land and Easement
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved the sale of real estate to Edwards Brothers
and granting of an easement, as described in the Regents Communication.
City of Ann Arbor Utility Easement Amendment
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved granting an amendment to an easement
agreement with the City of Ann Arbor, as described in the Regents
Communication.
University of Michigan-Dearborn General Campus Renovation
Project Phase III: College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters (CASL)
Building
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved issuing the CASL Building project for bids
and awarding a construction contract, provided the costs remain within the
project budget.
Ruthven Museum to Central Campus Recreation Building
Replacement of Tunnel Piping
Regent Power moved approval of a project for replacement of utilities
tunnel piping between the Ruthven Museum and the Central Campus
Recreation Building, as described in the Regents Communication. Regent
Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Buhr Building Addition Interior Completion
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved proceeding with a project for completion of
the interior of the Buhr Building addition, as described in the Regents
Communication.
UMH C. S. Mott Children's Hospital - Pediatric Cardiology Clinic
Space Renovation
Regent Taylor moved approval of a project for renovation of space in C.
S. Mott Children's Hospital for the Congenital Heart Program in the
Pediatric Cardiology Division, as described in the Regents Communication,
along with submission of a Certificate of Need application to the Michigan
Department of Consumer and Industry Services. Regent Newman seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Resolution in Honor of Regent McFee
Regent Homing read the following resolution:


177




December Meeting, 1998


Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan warmly salute and
congratulate their friend and colleague, Shirley M. McFee, as she
concludes eight years of distinguished leadership as a member of the
Board of Regents.
Formerly the mayor of Battle Creek, Regent McFee is a Michigan
alumna and export manager of GHS Corporation, one of the world's
largest manufacturers of strings for fretted instruments. She has
served as a Battle Creek city commissioner and Calhoun County
commissioner and is a director of the Automobile Club of Michigan.
Bringing her strong background in politics and business to the
Board's deliberations, Regent McFee has served the citizens of
Michigan admirably as she has tackled the challenges of adequately
funding higher education, maintaining quality, and keeping tuition
affordable.  Regent McFee has supported efforts to work with
communities to expand continuing education programs and to share
the University's expertise with the state's K-12 schools. She also has
spoken eloquently on behalf of the University's efforts to achieve
diversity among its students, faculty, and staff.
As co-chair of the Presidential Search Committee, Regent McFee
skillfully helped guide the Regents through the selection process that
culminated in the election of Lee C. Bollinger as the University's
twelfth president.
Regent McFee has served with integrity, guided by a strong sense
of the University's role and responsibilities to its students, the state, the
nation, and the world. The Board appreciates her many contributions
and those of her husband, Robert, and looks forward to her continued
counsel as it names Shirley M. McFee Regent Emerita of the
University of Michigan.
A standing ovation followed, and the resolution was adopted by
acclamation. Regent McFee thanked the people of the state for electing her,
as well as faculty, administrators, her regent colleagues, and students for the
broadening, rewarding, experience that she has had as a member of the
Board of Regents.
Resolution in Honor of Regent Power
Regent Maynard read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan extend their gratitude
and warmest personal regards to their colleague and friend, Philip H.
Power, as he concludes eleven years of distinguished leadership on the
Board.
Appointed by Governor James Blanchard in 1987 and elected in
1990, Regent Power has made significant contributions to the Board's
178




December Meeting, 1998


deliberations, frequently delighting colleagues with his perspicacity,
jocose narratives, and savoir-faire. A Michigan alumnus, Regent
Power has championed improvements in undergraduate education
and expansion of sponsored research and played a key role in the
extraordinarily successful, $1.4 billion, Campaign for Michigan. He
also has worked to make a University of Michigan education accessible
to all academically qualified Michigan residents.
A former Marshall Scholar, Regent Power continues to foster ties
between the United Kingdom and the United States, most recently
with the May 1998 Marshall Symposium on the information
revolution. He is chairman of Home Town Communications Network
Inc., and also serves on the board of the National Center for Education
and the Economy and on the National Commission on Skills in the
American Workforce.
The Regents will miss Regent Power's presence on the Board but
trust that he and his wife, Kathleen, will remain active in University
life and serve as a continuing source of guidance. In recognition of his
passion for the University and loyal service, including perfect
attendance at Board meetings, the Regents name Philip H. Power
Regent Emeritus of the University of Michigan.
A standing ovation followed, after which Regent Power stated that he
wished to associate himself with Regent McFee's remarks. He noted what a
pleasure it has been to have served on the Board, and observed that "what
continues to impress me at the end of my service is the thought that when
historians of the future write the history of America in the twentieth
century, they are going to conclude that the creation and nourishment of
seriously excellent public universities is the signature contribution of our
society."
He noted what a great pleasure and honor it had been to have served as
a Regent.
President Bollinger commented that it is a great art to be a trustee on a
board and that both Regent McFee and Regent Power had carried out their
responsibilities magnificently.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:00
a.m. The next meeting is scheduled for January 21-22, 1999.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and
Secretary of the University


179




JANUARY MEETING, 1999


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, January 21, 1999
The Regents convened at 1:35 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Maynard, McGowan, Taylor, and
White. Also present were Provost Cantor, Executive Vice President Kasdin,
Vice President Feagin, Vice President Hartford, Vice President and General
Counsel Krislov, Interim Vice President Ulaby, Chancellor Renick, Interim
Chancellor Schmoll, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, and Vice
President Wilbanks. Regents Deitch and Newman arrived shortly after the
start of the meeting; Regent Horning participated remotely by means of a
speaker telephone. Executive Vice President Omenn was absent.
Welcome and Opening Remarks
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and welcomed Regents
Brandon and White to the Board.
He reported on the accomplishments of several students and faculty
members, including Talia McCray, a doctoral student who has received a
Student of the Year Award from the U.S. Department of Transportation;
Professors Christin Carter-Su and Abigail Stewart, who will receive the
annual Sarah Goddard Power Award; and three faculty members who have
been named Fulbright Scholars.
President Bollinger also announced the deaths of three students who
died in automobile accidents: Kyu Jong Han, on December 29, 1999, and
Sarah Metzger and Celia Zwerdling, on January 18, 1999.
Resolution in Honor of Katie McGregor
Regent Maynard introduced Katie McGregor, member of the women's
cross country team, and her coach Mike McGuire, and offered the following
resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan congratulate and
commend Katie McGregor, the University's first NCAA cross country
national champion and winner of the prestigious Cross Country
Honda Sports Award for 1998-99, which recognizes her as the top
woman collegiate athlete in her sport.
Ms. McGregor, an aggressive and focused runner, was the Big
Ten Cross Country Freshman of the Year in 1995 and is a two-time
cross country All-American. She won seven of the eight meets in
which she competed this year, including the Big Ten Conference and
NCAA Great Lakes Regional Championships and is the first Michigan
woman to win the Big Ten cross country championship twice, in 1997


181




January Meeting, 1999


and 1998. Ms. McGregor also won the 1998 NCAA 3,000-meter and
distance medley relay indoor track and field titles. An exemplary
student, athlete, and team leader, she received the University's Athletic
Academic Achievement Award in 1997.
Ms. McGregor, a senior in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts and an English major, will graduate in May and plans to
continue running competitively after college. It is with great pride and
admiration that the Regents congratulate Katie McGregor on her
academic and athletic accomplishments and wish her success on the
cross country course, running track, and in life.
A round of applause followed, and the motion was approved by acclamation.
M-Pathways Presentation
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that M-Pathways is new software
that affects all of the systems applications commonly used throughout the
University. He introduced Laura Patterson, M-Pathways project director, to
review the status of the M-Pathways project.
Ms. Patterson gave a presentation describing M-Pathways: What it is,
why the University chose to undertake the project, what it has accomplished,
and how much it has cost. She described M-Pathways as the implementation
of new administrative software from PeopleSoft to support most of the core
administration at the University. It was designed to replace 25- and 30-year
old information and student systems that were difficult to access,
cumbersome to use, and were unable to support important functions.
M-Pathways affects hundreds of business processes used by staff and
faculty from across all segments of the University. It consists of five core
projects: Physical Resource Management, which was implemented in 1997;
Financial Management, including Purchasing, Accounts Payable, and the
General Ledger (implemented in 1998); Student Administration (to be
implemented in 2000); Human Resource Management; and Research
Administration.
Ms. Patterson reviewed the project's accomplishments to date as well as
the implementation schedule for 1999. She reported that the cost of the
project so far has been $30.5 million for consultants, contractors, and
software, and projected remaining costs are estimated at $9.5 million. She
also described the challenges that have arisen in implementing the new
M-Pathways systems and the actions that have been taken to deal with these
challenges.
Following her presentation, there was some discussion about M-Pathways.
It was noted that progress is being made in reducing the amount of time it
takes for information to become available on the system. Ms. Patterson
observed that it has been very challenging to communicate with users about
working with the system, and that a variety of approaches are being
employed. People are being kept informed regularly about the nature of
problems and about progress being made in resolving these problems.


182




January Meeting, 1999


Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President and Secretary Tedesco submitted the minutes
of the December 17-18, 1998, meeting.
Reports.   Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports on
Investment, Plant Extension, Human Resources and Affirmative Action,
and on Non-competitive Purchases over $5,000 from Single Sources from
October 1-December 31, 1998.
Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Interim Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects
Established, and announced that Associate Vice President Julie Ellison
would present a report on new experiments emerging from the 1997-98 Year
of Humanities and Arts.
Associate Vice President Ellison gave a presentation on the scholarship,
teaching, and service that has developed from the Year of Humanities and
Arts (YoHA), in particular, the Arts of Citizenship Program. She was
accompanied by Assistant Professor David Scobey, director of the Arts of
Citizenship Program. It was noted that the mission of the program is to
build bridges between the University and the larger community through
collaborative projects, experimental teaching, and public-minded scholarship.
Examples were given of projects currently underway.
Student Affairs Report. Vice President Hartford joined President
Bollinger in extending the University's deepest sympathies to the families of
the three students who had died in the past month in automobile accidents.
She observed that support is being extended to the survivors and friends of
the victims through a variety of University resources.
Dearborn Campus Report. Chancellor Renick announced that an
agreement had recently been completed between Oakwood Healthcare, Inc.,
and the University of Michigan-Dearborn to provide resident physicians with
MBA programs that blend the skills of clinicians with the tools of
management. He also reported that a grant had been received from the U.S.
Department of Energy to establish a Center for Lightweight Automotive
Materials and Processing on the Dearborn campus. The center is the first of
its kind and UM-Dearborn is the only university in the country to receive
funding in this area of automotive technology. He noted that a Holocaust
exhibit, featuring an interactive program developed by undergraduate
students, had opened on campus highlighting interviews from the
university's Holocaust Survivor Oral Histories. The Dearborn campus has
recently received an unrestricted, $500,000 gift from the Ford Foundation
for restoration of the Henry Ford Estate. Finally, he noted that the MLK
Day volunteer activity was extremely successful, involving about 600
students, faculty and staff from UM-Dearborn and six other colleges and
universities in public service to the Detroit metropolitan area.
Flint Campus Report. Chancellor Schmoll reported on a collaborative
program of the School of Management with the National Academy of
Business and Banking in Togliatti, Russia, which is a sister city of Flint. She


183




January Meeting, 1999


noted that faculty from the National Academy had visited the Flint campus,
and the Flint faculty would soon be traveling to Togliatti. It is hoped that
there will be student interaction between the two institutions through the
distance learning component of the program. Chancellor Schmoll also
commented that the Center for Learning and Teaching was inaugurated in
December. Finally, she noted that the campus is immersed in a self-study,
being conducted as part of the North Central Association visit that will occur
later in the year.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted the report of
Voluntary Support as of December 31, 1998. She observed that the number
of gifts is up significantly; about 10,000 more gifts have been recorded than
during the same period last year.
Abbott Laboratories, Morgan Hill, California
for support in the College of Engineering.............................. $ 15,000
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for the Abbott Laboratories Minority Merit Scholarship in the
College of Pharmacy for scholarships and other support in the
Schools of Medicine, Nursing and Public Health, and the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for employee matching gifts......... 26,050
ACT Medical, Inc., Newton, Massachusetts
for the Urology Resident Education and Research Fund Medical School....... 5,000
Robert B. Aikens, Troy
for the Ann and Robert B. Aikens Endowment in the Law School...... 18,000
Air Products Foundation, Allentown, Pennsylvania
for chemical engineering support and the Women in Engineering Fund
in the College of Engineering...........................................  5,000
Alcoa Corporate Center, New Kensington, Pennsylvania
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Team Projects Fund in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering........... 15,000
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for support in the Center for the Education of Women..................... 50,000
Jay Alix and Associates, Southfield
for special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.............. 5,000
Bruce B. Allen, Kentfield, California
2,600 shares of IRT Property Company common stock
for the Bruce B. Allen Graduate Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration.............................................. 25,513
Phyllis R. Allen Trust
for the Gail Allen Scholarship in the Center for the Education of Women...... 5,000
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Public Health............................... 59,777
Sylvia Amber, West Bloomfield
185 shares of Schering-Plough Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, and for WFUM-TV....... 10,189
American Automobile Manufacturers Association, Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute....... 200,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts........................................................  167,570
American Cyanamid Company, Wayne, New Jersey
for support in  the M edical School........................................  5,000
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health.................. 62,521
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  33,000
American Foundation for Urological Disease, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research and other support in the Medical School....................... 7,417
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts........................................... 179,636
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the Medical School, and for the Nichols Arboretum
V isitor  Center.......................................................  62,650
184




January Meeting, 1999


American Society for Microbiology, Washington, DC
for research in the MedicalSchool....................................... 5,613
American Society for Quality Control, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for research in the School of Business Administration..................... 103,626
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for support in the Medical School and the Comprehensive Cancer Center..... 43,800
Pauline V. Anderson, Cupertino, California
1,900 shares of Citigroup, Inc., and
1,810 shares of BankAmerica common stock
for support in the College of Engineering............................... 192,145
Thomas K. Andison Marysville
236 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,030
Anonymous Donor
15,000 shares of KeyCorp common stock and a cash gift
for the Dean's Distinguished Professorship in Chinese Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 600,000
Anonymous Donor
65 shares of Amgen, Inc., common stock
for the Museum of Zoology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 5,346
Aramco Services Company, Houston, Texas
for the Center for Middle Eastern and North African Studies in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................ 5,000
ARCO Foundation, Inc., Los Angeles, California
for the Beverly Lannquist Hamilton Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 10,000
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  32,500
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the Institute for Social Research
and the Institute of Gerontology....................................... 60,143
Astra/Merck Group of Merck & Company, Inc., Wayne, Pennsylvania
for research  m  the Medical School......................................  12,000
Richard A. Auhll, Santa Barbara, California
for biomedical engineering support in the College of Engineering............ 15,000
Stephen S. Baits, Rockford Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 40,000
John C. Baity, Greenwich, Connecticut
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  15,000
Baker Petrolite, Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in
Porous Media in the College of Engineering.............................. 20,000
Carolyn Baron, New York, NewYork
100 shares of Amazon.Com, Inc., common stock
for support of the Law  School..........................................  32,300
Joy H. Baxt,Washington, DC
for support in the School of Nursing.....................................  5,000
Jacob J. Bedenik, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for support in the College of Engineering................................. 5,000
James A. Bellamy, Ann Arbor
for faculty support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 5,000
Roger A. Berg, Short Hills, New Jersey
1,000 shares of Walgreen Company common stock
for the Roger A. Berg Endowment and the Eve and Albert Berg Memorial
Loan Fund in the Medical School.......................................  27,875
Terry J. Bergstrom, Ann Arbor
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School........................... 6,000
Nancy D. Berkowitz, New York, New York
for the Nancy Dolinko-Berkowitz Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts................................................  10,000
Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Guido A. Binda Exhibit and Lecture Fund in the College of
Architecture and Urban  Planning.......................................  30,000
Bixby Foundation, Dearborn
for support in the School of Business Administration, the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for support at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn........................................  7,500
BMW AG, Munchen, Germany
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 29,960
185




January Meeting, 1999


Robert P. Boardman, Jr., Littleton, Colorado
500 shares of Abbott Laboratories common stock and a cash gift
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College
of Engineering.......................................................  25,359
F. A. and A. M. Bower Charitable Trust
for the F. B. Fralick Ophthalmology Fund in the Medical School............. 10,000
John R. Boyd, Orchard Lake
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................... 18,500
Lee L. Boysel, San Francisco, California
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 10,000
Hubert J. Brandt, Long Beach, New York
for the Frances and Hubert Brandt Israel Fellowship in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 10,000
Britax Automotive Component Division, Portchester, United Kingdom
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Alan H. Broad, Grosse Pointe Shores
for the Michigan Daily Scholarship....................................... 5,000
Brookdale Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the University Hospitals...................................  7,500
Robert W. Browne, Ada
4,953 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics,
for the Browne Family GSI Endowed Fund in the School of Music and
for the Robert W. and Lynn H. Browne Professorship in Science,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 216,384
B.S.P. Family Fund of the Jewish Communal Fund, New York, New York
for the Judaic Studies Program Graduate Student Aid Fund
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 25,000
California Technology International, Sunnyvale, California
for the Armenian Studies Program in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts..........................................................  7,374
Jeffrey P. Callen, Louisville, Kentucky
253 shares of ARM Financial Group, Inc., common stock
for dermatology support in the Medical School............................. 5,440
Brian P. Campbell, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration, and
for the Children's Center Gift Fund in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate  Studies............................................  52,000
Paul B. Campbell, Lakewood, Ohio
100 shares of BankAmerica Corporation common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of
Business Administration...............................................  6,519
Elizabeth Cannon, Farmington Hills
for the Brian Waddell Memorial Fund in the Medical School................ 10,000
Carrier Corporation, Syracuse, New York
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Team Projects Fund in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering........... 15,000
Margaret Castiglione, Canton
800 shares of DTE Energy Company common stock
for the John and Josephine Castiglione Endowed Scholarship
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 35,375
David G. Chardavoyne, Detroit
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund and the Jerry Hanlon Endowed
Football Lineman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics................ 7,000
Chase Manhattan Bank Foundation, New York, New York
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration...................................... 50,000
Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Citicorp Foundation, New York, New York
for the IMAP Program Fund in the School of Business Administration....... 60,000
Gail E. Cobb, Tulsa, Oklahoma
50 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock
for support in the College of Engineering................................. 6,536
Cohn Family Philanthropic Fund, Bloomfield
for the Cohn Family Research Fellows Endowment in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................  100,000
Cole-Belin Education Foundation, Des Moines, Iowa
for the David W. Belin Phi Beta Kappa Scholarship in the Law School........ 50,000
186




January Meeting, 1999


Comerica Bank - Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the Norman Mette Scholarship in the Medical School.................. 125,000
Commonwealth Fund New York, New    ork
for research in the School of Social Work................................. 10,000
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support in the School of Public Health................................ 10,000
Ella May Cook Trust
for the Joseph H. and Ella May Gardner Cook Endowment in the
School of Education................................................ 135,514
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Cook Family Foundation Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for the Alumni Association...................... 40,000
Alice S. Corey, Altadena, California
for the Chester B. Slawson Memorial Fund and other support in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................ 8,500
Cowen Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 7,500
Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................... 22,725
Sheila A. Crowley, Ann Arbor
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in the
Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................................... 5,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School...................................... 23,096
John E. Dahlgren, Mohawk
for the Designated Families Fund in the University Hospitals, in memory
of Hilda  andHarley  M iles.............................................  10,000
Daimler Chrysler Corporation, Livonia
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................ 5,000
William K. Davenport, Bloomfield Hills
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for the Dekers Club Hockey Scholarship in the Department of Athletics...... 25,000
Delta Dental Fund, Okemos
for the Delta Dental Scholarship and other support in the School
of Dentistry.......................................................... 8,250
Detroit Red Wing Alumni Association, Inc., Detroit
for the  University  Hospitals.............................................  5,000
Stephen B. Diamond, River Forest, Illinois
400 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock
for support of the Law School.................................... 52,288
Elizabeth Dichter, Paradise Valley, Arizona
200 shares of Eli Lilly & Company common stock
for support in the School of Public Health................................ 17,013
Joann Diebolt Trust
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................... 100,000
Dixon and Carol Doll Trust
430 shares of Northern Telecom, Ltd., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 19,793
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for support in the School of Business Administration and the
College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts.................... 12,433
DSM Copolymer, Baton Rouge, Louisiana
for automotive transportation Research in the Transportation
Research Institute..................................................... 6,500
Harold C. Early, Ann Arbor
for the Harold C. Early Assistant Professor Research Award Fund
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 50,000
Eaton Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute........................................            7,500
Elkes Foundation, Rye, New York
for the Terrence A. and Ruth F. Elkes Merit Scholarship in the
Law   School................................................      200,000
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
for research in the Medical School....................             10,000
Epker-Percival Charitable Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000


187




January Meeting, 1999


Thomas and Elaine Evans Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Music and for the Museum of Art, the
University Musical Society and the University Hospitals.................... 5,000
Exxon Company, U.S.A., Houston, Texas
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship in the School
of Business Administration.............................................  5,000
Federal-Mogul Corporation, Detroit
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute.....................................................  7,500
Russell H. Fifield Living Trust
for the W. K. Kellogg Eye Center....................................... 10,000
First Chicago NBD Corporation, Detroit
for the University Musical Society...................................... 20,000
Robert A. Fisher, East Lansing
for support of the Law  School........................................  5,000
Robert B. Fiske, Jr., New York, New York
for support of the Law School.......................................... 10,000
Morgan L. Fitch, Jr., Western Springs, Illinois
66 shares of Warner-Lambert Company common stock
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,028
FMC Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration, and for
employee  matching  gifts...............................................  10,200
Nathan M. Forbes, Bloomfield Hills
for the varsity tennis complex in the Department of Athletics................ 5,000
Thomas W. Ford, Menlo Park, California
for support of the Law  School..........................................  10,000
Benson and Edith Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse,
the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................................  20,000
Ford Foundation, New York,New York
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, and
for research in the School of Social Work................................ 322,500
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research
Institute, and for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Fair Lane
M usic  G uild...........................................................  5,300
Norman and Edna Freehling Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Norman Freehling Visiting Professorship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................      7,500
Freightliner Corporation, Portland, Oregon
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation
Research  Institute....................................................  15,000
Stuart M. and Lillian M. Frey Fund, Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering...                5,000
Fujitsu Laboratories of America, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for research in the College of Engineering................................  15,000
Frances I. Furlong Trust
for the Harold A. Furlong Research Endowment in the Medical School...... 675,000
Ralph W. Garlick, Grand Rapids
500 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics............................... 21,813
Bernard A. Gassin, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida
for the Gassin Family Foundation Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  25,000
Charlotte Gault Fund of the Columbus Foundation, Columbus, Ohio
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts and for the University Library..................................  10,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School,
and for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..... 25,000
Dick Genthe Chevrolet, Southgate
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund........................... 5,000
William M. Gibson, Evans, Georgia
for the Helen B. Gibson Scholarship in the College of Engineering........... 20,000
Donald W. Giese, Port Huron
300 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for the Donald W. Giese Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.............. 28,416
188




January Meeting, 1999


Glaxo Wellcome, Inc. Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for support in  the  Medical School.......................................  61,010
Globe Foundation, Scottsdale, Arizona
for the Office for the Study of Private Equity Finance and other
support in the School of Business Administration......................... 26,000
Alain A. Gloor, Zurich, Switzerland
for support of the Law  School..........................................  10,000
Martin R. Goldman, Southfield
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............. 10,000
Robert T. Goldman, West Bloomfield
for support in  the Medical School........................................  5,000
Grace V. Gorham Estate
for scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School...................... 5,000
G R Group, Inc., Holland, Ohio
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship................................. 10,000
Graham Foundation, York, Pennsylvania
for the Graham Endowment in Manufacturing in the College
of Engineering......................................................  350,000
Grand Rapids Foundation, Grand Rapids
for research in the School of Social Work.................................. 5,000
GTE Corporation, Stamford, Connecticut
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 15,000
Nancy E. Gwinn, Chevy Chase Maryland
for the Gwinn-Cole Family Scholarship in the School of Information.......... 5,000
Jack Habel, Naples, Florida
6,000 shares of Citizen's Utilities common stock
for the Jack and Leonora J. Habel Charitable Remainder Unitrust
Fund for the ultimate benefit of the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and the University Library................................. 47,438
David A. Hamilton, Allen Park
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
David L. Haron, Farmington Hills
496 shares of CVS Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Pamela and David Haron Endowed Scholarship in the Law
School, and for the Martin Luther King Scholarship....................... 24,954
Roger B. Harris, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts........................................................  6,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................... 75,000
William C. Hartman, Naples, Florida
35 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,156
Shirley and Barnett Helzberg Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Barnett and Shirley Helzberg Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration.....................................  103,750
Keith S. and Marcelle Henley Foundation, Ann Arbor
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School....................... 18,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 60,000
DuBose and Dorothy Heyward Memorial Fund, New York, New York
for the Standifer Video Archive of Oral History Fund in the School
of M usic.............................................................  5,000
HOCO, Ltd., Niagara Falls, Ontario, Canada
for ophthalmology research in the Medical School......................... 77,497
Gretchen Riggs Hoenecke, Hinsdale, Illinois
2,000 shares of Home Depot, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Art and Design............................. 104,713
John W. Holmes, Irving Texas
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............ 5,000
Harold J. Holshuh, North Canton, Ohio
for support of the Law School.......................................... 10,000
Homeland Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support of the Law School and for the Museum of Zoology
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 270,000
Honeywell, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science, Engineering
Program  in the College of Engineering................................... 5,000


189




January Meeting, 1999


Joseph L. Hudson IV, Madison, Wisconsin
80 shares of Automatic Data Processing common stock
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts and for the University Library............................... 6,175
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  41,500
William F. Hunting, Jr., Andover, New Hampshire
369 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for support of the Law  School..........................................  24,884
IBM Corporation, Southfield
for the University Musical Society......................................  10,000
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Kanagawa, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.......... 7,500
Infectious Diseases Society of America, Washington, DC
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  30,000
Gertrude Ingold, Newark, Delaware
69 shares of Exxon Corporation common stock
for mechanical engineering and applied mechanics support in
the College of Engineering, in memory of John F. GoId, Jr................... 5,121
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for the Solar Car Project Fund and electrical and computer
engineering fellowships in the College of Engineering.........      48,696
Ischemia Research & Education Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the Cardiac Anesthesiology Research Fund in the Medical School......... 13,300
Marguerite Iskenderian, Brooklyn, New York
for the Haig P. Iskenderian Scholarship in the College of Engineering........ 15,000
Marjorie M. Jackson, Ann Arbor
167 shares of E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company common stock
for support in the School of Nursing....................................  10,036
Richard C. Jelinek, Aspen, Colorado
2,000 shares of Managed Care Solutions common stock and
750 shares of Quadramed Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Public Health............................... 25,398
Jensen Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the  Clem ents Library...............................................  5,000
Jewish Federation of Washtenaw County, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.............. 5,000
Conrad and Caroline Jobst Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
for the Conrad and Caroline Jobst Foundation Fund in the
M edical School......................................................  150,000
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for research  in the Medical School.....................................  75,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine, Public Health and Social
Work and for research at the University of Michigan-Flint................. 258,434
Robert A. Johnston, Milford, Ohio
125 shares of Provident Financial Group common stock
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,015
Judaic Studies Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in Rabbinic
Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................... 129,087
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................... 68,535
Barbara Kacir, Providence, Rhode Island
50 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for the William J. Brattin Scholarship in the Law School.................... 6,159
Jim Kamman, Laguna Hills, California
for the SnipNalan Scholarship and other support in the
Departm ent of Athletics...............................................  32,500
M. David Keil, Hinsdale, Illinois
206 shares of Dun & Bradstreet common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 6,051
Stephen Kemp, Whitmore Lake
for the Robert and Evelyn Kemp Fund in the College of Engineering.......... 5,000
David F. Keren, Ann Arbor
1,000 shares of Iomega Corporation common stock
for the Mary and David Keren Scholarship in the Department
of A thletics...........................................................  6,906


190




January Meeting, 1999


Helen V. Kew Trust
for support in the Medical School....................................... 18,333
Kirkland & Ellis Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in the Law School.................. 150,000
Steven M. Korotkin, Birmingham
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,000
Leonard J. Kujawa, Atlanta, Georgia
80 shares of Tellabs, Inc., common stock
for the Leonard J. Kujawa/Arthur Andersen Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration....................................... 5,565
F. Bruce Kulp, Ann Arbor
70 shares of Associates First Capital Corporation common stock
for the University Musical Society....................................... 4,207
Ronni S. Lacroute, Yamhill, Oregon
1,705 shares of Citrix Systems, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science,
and the Arts.......................................... 150,622
Robert G. Lane, Glencoe, Illinois
120 shares of U.S. West, Inc., common stock
for support of the Law School........................................... 7,215
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................... 35,910
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School....................................... 8,750
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for support m   the Medic   School........................................  5,400
Jane Likert Estate
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education
of W omen.....................................................  10,000
Charles A. Lindbergh Fund St. Paul, Minnesota
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 10,580
Daniel E. Lipschutz, Ann Arbor
for the Susan Lipschutz Endowment in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate  Studies...........................................  5,000
Diana M. Lopo, New York, New York
for support of the Law School........................................... 5,000
Ludy Family Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute.................................. 40,000
Joe Lunghamer Chevrolet, Inc., Pontiac
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 10,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering.............. 300,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Schools of Social Work and Natural Resources
and Environment....................................................  40,000
Mack Trucks, Inc., Allentown, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Engineering................................  15,000
Thomas S. Maentz, Bloomfield Village
for the Tom and JoAnn Maentz Football Scholarship in the Department
of Athletics.......................................               50,000
Mallinckrodt Medical, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri
for support in the Medical School....................................... 10,000
Oliver F. Manzini, Laurium
for support in the School of Dentistry and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts................................................ 10,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts........................................ 29,163
Gregory A. Margolies, New York New York
for the Margolies Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, an   the  Arts..................................................  5,000
Martin Buick, Oldsmobile, GMC Truck, Fenton
for WFUM-TV.......................................                12,500
Masco Corporation, Taylor
for the University Musical Society, and for employee matching gifts.......... 10,450
Loretta Matthews Memorial Fund, Riverview
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................... 24,400


191




January Meeting, 1999


Douglas C. McClintock, Northville
for support in the School of Art and Design, and for the Arthur
Andersen Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.............. 5,000
James S. McDonnell Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for research in the Medical School...................................... 57,128
C. Blake McDowell Jr., Estate
for support of the Law  School........................................   8,019
Charlotte McGeoch, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society............................ 10,000
McGraw Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for employee matching gifts.............................................  5,000
McGregor Fund, Detroit
for the  Clements Library..............................................  75,000
Gordon W. McMillan, Calgary, Canada
for the Al Renfrew Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............ 5,000
Thomas B. McMullen Company, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society....................................... 8,326
Joanne T. Meagher, Ypsilanti
for support in the School of Business Administration and the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................  7,000
George W. Melchior, Port Ludlow, Washington
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  5,000
Merck & Company, Inc., West Point, Pennsylvania
for support m the Schools of Medicine and Law............................ 7,500
Merry Mary Charitable Foundation, Beverly Hills, California
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics... 5,000
Mette Foundation, Southfield
for the Mette Foundation Scholarship in the School of Dentistry........... 40,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for support in the School of Information....................... 50,000
David L. Miller, Grand Blanc
for  support in the School of Dentistry....................................  6,000
Mrs. John A. Mintz, West Palm Beach, Florida
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 9,000
Motorola, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................ 5,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment, and
for scholarships at the University of Michigan-Flint...................... 125,000
Janet S. Mueller, St. Peter, Minnesota
for the Clements Library........................                    5,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research  in the Medical School......................................  44,000
Alton H. Myers, Rochester
for the University Musical Society.......................................  5,000
William K. Najjar, Grand Rapids
100 shares of International Business Machines common stock
for periodontics support in the School of Dentistry........................ 16,772
Donald F. Nash, Saginaw
for the Nichols Arboretum Flowering Tree Fund....................... 50,000
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School...................... 12,500
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................... 74,468
Ronald and Joan Nordgren Charitable Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Ronald P. and Joan M. Nordgren Endowed Heart Research
Fund in the Medical School..................................     25,000
Donald E. Nordlund, Barrington, Illinois
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,000
Ronald L. Olson, Los Angeles California
484 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock
for the Ronald L. and Jane Olson Fund in the Law School.................. 72,116
Omicron, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics,
and for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School........ 8,000
William P. O'Neill, Washington, DC
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000
Oral Health America, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Dentistry...................................  12,100
192




January Meeting, 1999


Rose Otis, West Bloomfield
185 shares of Schering-Plough Corporation common stock
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................... 10,117
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for the Center for Population Planning in the School of Public Health........ 92,790
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for research in the Medical School................................. 55,555
Donald R. Parshall, Jr., Rocky River, Ohio
for support of the Law  School.............................         6,000
Donald H. Parsons, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Patricia D. Pawelski, Ann Arbor.
300 shares of Superior Consultant Holdings common stock
for scholarships m the Department of Athletics........................... 11,213
Roslyn Braeman Payne, San Francisco, California
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 15,000
Pearsall Family Foundation, Oak Park, Illinois
for support of the Law School.......................................... 10,000
Louis Perlmutter, New York New York
for the Allan F. Smith Scholarship in the Law School....................... 5,000
Everett Watson Perry Estate
for the Professor Emeritus Geneva C. Nelson Scholarship in the
School of Music....................................................  30,188
Peterson American Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute.....................................................  5,000
Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the School of Education................................... 25,000
Ronald L. Piasecki, Incline Village, Nevada
1,000 shares of Gentex Corporation common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 18,469
Jeffry M. and Barbara Picower Foundation, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Jeffry M. and Barbara Picower Foundation Fund and
other support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 30,100
Murray C. Pitt Trust
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center....................... 20,000
Calvin C. Plummer Trust
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College
of Engneering........................................................  8,000
Herbert and Elsa Ponting Foundation, Detroit
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute............................... 15,000
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Margin of Difference Fund in the Center for the Education
of Women, for the D'Arms Awards in the Humanities in the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and for the University
M usical Society......................................................  21,500
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................... 41,250
Thomas B. Ridgley, Columbus, Ohio
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,745
M. Joe Roberson, Bloomfield Hills
for the M. Joseph Roberson Scholarship Endowment at
the University of Michigan-Flint, and for research in the
Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................ 101,000
Eugene Rontal, Bloomfield Hills
200 shares of Charter One Financial, Inc, common stock
for the Benny Friedman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,175
Dennis E. Ross, BIoomfield Hills
130 shares of Hertz Corporation common stock
for support of the Law School..........................................  5,151
Louise Rotenberg Trust
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in
the University Library............................................... 9,000
Jack Roth Charitable Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Jack Roth Men's Basketball Scholarship in the Department
of Athletics................................................ 50,000
Georgia S. Rowe, Sun City, Arizona
for the Tom D. Rowe Memorial Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy....... 5,000


193




January Meeting, 1999


Joseph E. Rowe, Xenia, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering and the Horace H.
Rackham  School of Graduate Studies.....................................  5,100
Richard W. Ruby, Rochester Hills
for research in the Medical School, in memory of Zachary Ruby.............. 5,000
Saul S. Saulson, Franklin
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the
School of Business Administration......................................  10,000
Sophia D. Schachter, New York, New York
for the Bentley Historical Library................................  10,000
Schering Sales Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy
and for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.......................................        13,100
Jack M. Schwartz, Scarsdale, New York
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 5,000
Martha R. Seger, Bloomfield Hills
100 shares of Amoco Corporation common stock
for the  Clements Library...............................................  5,534
Sesi Lincoln-Mercury, Inc., Ypsilanti
for the University Musical Society....................................... 7,500
Dennis G. Severance, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for chemical engineering support and the Sea Grant/Industry
Consortium Fund in the College of Engineering and for geological
sciences support and the Shell Companies Foundation Graduate Aid
in Physics Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 40,000
Langley R. Shook, Washington, DC
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000
Signature Associates, Southfield
for the Real Estate Fellowship in the School of Business Administration...... 10,000
Alva Gordon Sink Trust
for the Alva Gordon Sink Scholarship............ 284,701
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Business Administration and the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the Center for
the  Education  of W omen.............................................  847,182
Alene Smith, Sarasota, Florida
for the Allan F. Smith Endowed Scholarship in the School of Music,
and for the Clements Library........................................... 5,050
Nancy J. Smith, Saginaw
for the John M. Sheldon Endowment in the Medical School.................. 5,000
Nelson L. Smith, Escanaba
340 shares of Mutual Qualified Fund mutual fund for scholarships
in the School of Dentistry............................................... 6,000
Philip L. Smith, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
200 shares of Chase Manhattan Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...... 11,288
Richard C. Sneed, Cleveland, Ohio
100 shares of TRW, Inc., common stock
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,275
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Education...............41,500
George E. Sperling, Jr., Santa Monica, California
1,000 shares of Exxon Corporation common stock
for the George E., Jr., and Elizabeth S. Sperling Endowment, Law School.... 72,594
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, DC
for research in the Medical School......................................23,058
Nathan E. Springer, Jr., New York, New York
125 shares of VF Corporation common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 5,523
Helen McKaig Spuhler Estate
for the HeIen McKaig Spuhler Graduate Fellowship in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................200,000
Dorothy W. Steiner, Ann Arbor
200 shares of American Home Products Corporation common stock
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts.........................................................  10,288
194




January Meeting, 1999


Robert W. Storer, Ann Arbor
1,290 shares of Wells Fargo Company common stock
for the Robert W. Storer Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts.........................................................  49,544
Edward Surovell Company/Realtors, Ann Arbor
for the  University  Musical Society.......................................  5,000
T A P Holdings Inc., Deerfield, Illinois
for support in  the  Medical School........................................  5,000
A. Alfred Taubman Restated Revocable Trust
for the Alfred Taubman  Scholarship.....................................  52,141
FBO TenBroeck Irrevocable Trust
for the Jane and Howard M. TenBroeck Scholarship in the College
of Enineering.
of  Engineering........................................................  8,800
Robert P. Thome, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Wilber K. Pierpont Fund in the School of Business Administration....... 20,000
Noel M. Tichy, Ann Arbor
for the Global Business Partnership Fund in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  31,688
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Midland
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the School of Music and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund........ 305,000
Union Camp Charitable Trust
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.......... 5,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, Inc., Washington, DC
for research  in  the  Medical School.......................................  5,000
University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Washington, DC
for the University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Scholarship......... 10,000
UPS Foundation, Inc. Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the College of Engineering................................  15,000
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the Clements Library............................                12,000
James A. Van Sweden, Washington, DC
225 shares of various corporate common stock
for the James A. Van Sweden Endowed Scholarship in the College of
Architecture and Urban  Planning.......................................  15,341
Mrs. Alexander S. Vida, Bradbury, California
for the Alexander S. Vida, M.D. Memorial Scholarship, Medical School....... 50,000
Donald Waddell, Holland
for research  in  the M edical School.......................................  8,802
George A. Wade, Boise, Idaho
for support in the Department of Athletics and the Schools of
Education and Medicine and for the building fund in the Division
of Kinesiology...................                                   12,500
Ellen C. Wagner, Ann Arbor
250 shares of Sun Microsystems, Inc., common stock
for the Richard A. Epstein Visionary Fund in the Comprehensive
Cancer Center.......................................................  20,133
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for the Nabel Research Fund and other support in the Medical
School, for the J. Wagner Memorial Fund in the College
of Pharmacy, for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology
Endowment in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and for
natural sciences support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........... 211,000
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Transition for the Center for Sustainable Systems Fund
and the National Pollution Prevention Center in the School of
Natural Resources and Environment...................................  140,000
Weyerhaeuser Company Foundation, Tacoma, Washington
for the Weyerhaeuser Student Research Fellowship in the School of
Natural Resources and Environment.................................... 62,500
Kenneth Whipple, Bloomfield Hills
190 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................... 10,575
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 39,400
Robert J. White, Los Angeles California
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,000


195




January Meeting, 1999


Richard P. Whitker, Ann Arbor
240 shares of Allied Signal, Inc., common stock
for the Library Gift Fund in the Law School.............................. 10,178
Wicha Family Trust
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in the
Comprehensive Cancer Center.........................................  10,000
Mrs. R. Jamison Williams, Bloomfield Hills
3,478 shares of Dell Computer Corporation common stock
for the R. Jamison and Betty Williams Professorship in the
College  of Engineering..............................................  249,329
Christopher A. Woodring, Canton
for neonatal support in the.Medical School, in memory of
Nathaniel A. W oodring.................................................  5,050
Woodworth-Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 10,000
Hugh M. Wright, Battle Creek
100 shares of Coca Cola Company common stock and
100 shares of International Business Machines common stock
for support the Department of Athletics................................. 23,822
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Scholarship in the Law School........................... 50,000
Morton M. Zedd, Richmond, Virginia
for support of the Law School......................... 10,000
Jonathan F Zeschin Living Trust
for support in the School of Business Administration.................... 15,000
Roy H. Ziegler, Ann Arbor
3,000 shares of Walgreen Company common stock
for the Roy H. and Helen Ziegler Scholarship in the College
of Engineering......................................................  160,313
W. Tom ZurSchmiede, Jr., Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Tax Policy Research Fund and other support in the
School of Business Administration and for support in the
Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 5,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Apple Computer, Inc., Austin Texas
a iMac computer for ITD
James R. Baker, Jr., Ann Arbor
a 1985 Jeep Cherokee with spare tires for Camp Michigania
Alfred Berkowitz, Birmingham
art work for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Berkowitz Gallery
Dell Computer Corporation, Round Rock, Texas
seven Dell computers with monitors for ITD
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
a FT-IR spectrometer for the University of Michigan-Flint chemistry department
Carla A. Evans, Chicago, Illinois
a Macintosh computer and related supplies for the School of Dentistry
Sally Fleming, Naples Florida
clothing for the School of Music University Productions
Peter H. Gennrich, Saginaw
a VIO Graph II treadmill with cardio monitoring system for the University of
Michigan-Flint physical therapy department
Glen-Gery Corporation, Farmington HilIs
24 cubes of brick for the civil and environmental engineering department
Dorothy Jones, Baton Rouge, Louisiana
39 books for the near eastern studies department
David B. Kandt, Farmington Hills
books for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Mardigian Library
William R. Luney, Tarrytown, New York
a Michigan Law Review set, 1956-1996 for the Law Library
Joan Meisel, New York, New York
two paintings for the Museum of Art
Louise H.Noel, Petoskey
a 24' Harris Flotebot with a motor for Camp Michigania
Ellis Perlman, Burton
113 books and 117 periodical volumes for the University of Michigan-Flint
Gerda Seligson, Ann Arbor
37 classical texts for the classical studies department
196




January Meeting, 1999


Paul L. Stewart, Ann Arbor
39 magnesium printing plates for the School of Art and Design
Susan B. Strange, Potomac, Maryland
a collection of eight albums containing silver gelatin photographs for the Clements
Library
Thomas A. Terhune, Pinckney
a 12' laser racing dinghy for the Department of Athletics
Jennifer Trimble, Ann Arbor
106 books for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology
Michael Zinman, Ardsley, New York
volume one of a five volume set of books by Laurence Sterne for the Clements Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:


Thomas R. Adams, Providence, Rhode Island
Joseph A. Amato, Jr., Marshall, Minnesota
Kathryn M. Anderson-Levitt, Dearborn Heights
John Arthos, Ann Arbor
Dee Atkinson, Cincinnati, Ohio
Doris Bacon, Brooklyn, Wisconsin
Lawrence S. Bartell, Ann Arbor
Dorothy I. Blankenburg, Kalamazoo
James Boynton, Detroit
Joseph Cepuran, Plymouth
Dave Coval, Dexter
Tony DeRegnaucourt, Arcanum, Ohio
William H. Finch, Ann Arbor
Harry Frank, Flushing
Craig R. Frisch, St. Louis, Missouri
Elaine K. Gazda, Ann Arbor
Julia A. Gleich, Ann Arbor
Albert Goldstein, Ann Arbor


Alexander T. Hetzeck, Fall River, Massachusetts
D. Katz, Saline
Robert G. Kelly, Plymouth
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
David Kutzko, Ann Arbor
Siva A. Mani, West Bloomfield
Mehdi Nemazi, Livonia
Joseph Rife, Ann Arbor
Laura Strowe, Ann Arbor
Nikoghos Tahmizyan, Pasadena, California
Stephen J. Tonsor, Ann Arbor
Petra Van Kampen, Da Leiden, Netherlands
Ann T. VanRosevelt, Ann Arbor
Joshua Ward, Ann Arbor
Ronald Witthoff Plymouth
Word of Mouse Mousepads, Boulder, Colorado
Barbara Zabicki, Grosse Pointe
Paul W. Zitzewitz, Northville


Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted a number of personnel
actions.   Executive Vice President Kasdin highlighted his enthusiastic
recommendation for the appointment of Mr. Henry (Hank) Baier as
associate vice president for facilities and operations, noting that the title
had previously been known as vice president for business operations.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective January 1, 1999
Edwards, Paul N., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Information, School of Information
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Gillespie, Carolyn M., Interim Chair, Department of Communication, UM-Flint College of
Arts and Sciences, November 1, 1998-June 30, 2000
Goldstein, Steven A., Interim Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies, Medical
School, January 1, 1999
James, Sherman A., Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, School of Public
Health, July 1, 1999
Newson, Adele S., from Director, Africanamerican Studies program to Chair, Department of
Africana Studies, UM-Flint, January 1, 1999-June 30, 2001
Terrell, Katherine, Associate Professor of Public Policy, School of Public Policy, December 1, 1998


197




January Meeting, 1999


OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective January 22, 1999
Change in Administrative Title
Baler, Henry D., from Interim Associate Vice President for Business Operations to Associate
Vice President for Facilities and Operations, Office of the Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENT
Effective on the dates indicated
Michigan Historical Collections Executive Committee
Fine, Sidney, retroactive reappointment, November 1, 1997-October 31, 2002
Personnel reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1-April 30, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Burger, Michael F., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Natural Resources, Residential College, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Eubanks-Daniel, Rochelle A., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical
School, December 1, 1998-November 30, 2000
Ivanitskaya, Leonora, M.A., Lecturer I in Performing Arts, Residential College, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Keane, Michael P., B.A.O., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1 -August 31, 1999
Lawson, Terry J., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Mountain, Kimberly, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ofotokun, Ighovwerha, M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, January 1-June 30, 1999
Palmieri, Patricia A., Ed.D., Lecturer II in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Parmenter, Jon W., Ph.D., Lecturer II in History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Roth, Victor S., M.P.H., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, December 14, 1998 -December 14, 1999
Sharp, Michael D., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Trask, Peter C., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Venugopal, Ravinder, Ph.D., Lecturer in Engineering, College of Engineering
CORRECTIONS TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Femino, John E., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, Medical School,
August 24, 1998-August 23, 1999
Thompson, B. Gregory, Jr., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School,
September 1, 1998-August 31, 1999
Vannan, Mani, M.B.B.S., Clinical Associate Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 1998-August 31, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1-December 31, 1999
Goldenberg, Caren S., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School


198




January Meeting, 1999


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective January 1-December 31, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Chethik, Morton, Clinical Associate Professor Emeritus of Child Psychoanalysis, Medical School
Hancock, Walton M., Professor Emeritus of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College
of Engineering, and Professor Emeritus of Health Services Management, School of
Public Health, reappointed to the College of Engineering
Krachenbert, A. R., Professor Emeritus of Management, UM-Dearborn School of
Management, January 1-April 30, 1999
Loos, Paul J., Associate Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, School of Dentistry
Morley, George W., Norman F. Miller Professor Emeritus of Gynecology and Professor
Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Ansbacher, Rudi, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, Medical School,
retirement furlough (phased), January 1, 1999-December 31, 2001
Caulfield, Sueann, Assistant Professor of History and Assistant Professor of History
Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity
leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Dowling, Catherine A., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School,
personal leave, January 1-31, 1999
Fessler, Kathryn B., Clinical Instructor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
personal leave, December 1-31, 1998
Fox, Helen, Lecturer III in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, outside teaching leave, January 1-December 31, 1999
Kearfott, Kimberlee J., Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with
tenure, and Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering, extended sick leave, March 17-April 2, 1998
Kollmann, Judith J., Professor of English, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, extended sick leave, October 6, 1998-November 2, 1998
Lawrence, Ruth J., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, research leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Naavab, Mojtaba, Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Park, Albert F., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Ribbens, William B., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
and Professor of Aerospace Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 1999
Roloff, Dietrich W., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
Medical School, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 1999
Rosenberg, William G., Richard Hudson Research Professor of History, Alfred G. Meyer
Collegiate Professor of History, and Professor of History, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1999
Schultz, Albert B., Vennema Professor of Engineering, Professor of Mechanical Engineering
and Applied Mechanics, and Professor of Biomedical Engineering, wihtout tenure,
College of Engineering, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 1999
Shantaram, R., Associate Professor of Computer Science, with tenure, UM-Flint College of
Arts and Sciences, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Sheldon, Jane P., Assistant Professor of Psychology, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, extended sick leave, January 25-July 25, 1999
Sonmez, Tayfun O., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, outside teaching leave, January 1-December 31, 1999
Woolliscroft, James O., Josiah Macy Jr. Professor of Medical Education, Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure, and Associate dean for graduate Medical Education, Medical
School, sabbatical leave, July 1-December 31, 1998


199




January Meeting, 1999


CORRECTIONS TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Heirich, Max A., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, extended sick leave, November 1-December 31, 1998 (previously reported as
March 26-October 31, 1998)
Sisson, James C., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, retirement
furlough (phased) February 1, 1998-February 29, 2000 (previously reported as
February 1-August 31, 1998)
Stern, Robert M., Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure,
School of Public Policy, retirement furlough (phased), January 1, 1998-May 31, 1999
(previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1998)
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Deceased
Ging, Rosalie J., Assistant Professor Emerita of Psychiatry, Medical School, October 21, 1998
Resigned
Chou-VonMeister, Yuen-Ling, Lecturer II in Chinese, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 1998
Patalano, Andrea L., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Schmidt, Christoph F., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1999
Sumida, Stephen H., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 1, 1998
Washington, Edward J., Clinical Instructor II in Anesthesiology, Medical School, December 31, 1998
Wilson, Todd E., Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, December 31, 1998
Retired
Bunch, Howard M., Associate Professor of Ship Production Science, without tenure, College
of Engineering, December 31, 1998
Hill, Bruce M., Professor of Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1998
Kister, James M., Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1998
Kusnerz, Peggy Ann, Lecturer in Art, School of Art and Design, January 21, 1999
Murray, Barbara B., Associate Professor of Business Economics and Finance, December 31, 1998
Schwartz, Edward M., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, December 31, 1998
Shappirio, David G., Professor of Biological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, December 1, 1998
Smith, Gene E., Assistant Dean and Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure,
December 31, 1998
Sonntag, Richard E., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, December 31, 1998
Werner, William A., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, College of Architecture,
December 31, 1998
Term Completed
Akcasu, Ziyaeddin A., Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Macromolecular
Science and Engineering, College of Engineering, April 30, 1998
Bassett, Leslie R., Albert A. Stanley Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of Music
(Composition), April 30, 1998
Bauserman, Robert L., Lecturer I in Psychology, April 30, 1998
Belden, Maureen K., Lecturer in Nursing, December 31, 1998
Bielek, Pascale H., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1998
Caskey, Rachel N., Lecturer I in Chemistry, April 30, 1998


200




January Meeting, 1999


Churchill, Sallie R., Professor Emerita of Social Work, April 30, 1998
Crittle, Myra C., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1998
Cross, Elizabeth R., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
de Leon, Richard F., Associate Professor Emeritus of Pharmacy, December 31, 1998
Dufresne, Eric, Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Ellis, Susan, Lecturer II in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1998
Gray, Whitmore, Professor Emeritus of Law, Law School, March 15, 1998
Green, Cecilia A., Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Hall, Jon C., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Holzhacker, Ronald L., Lecturer II in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 1998
Huntington, Gertrude E., Lecturer I in Geological Sciences, December 31, 1998
Keller, Robert B., Associate Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, College of
Engineering, April 30, 1998
Menlo, Allen, Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, College of Literature
Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Nagel, Julie J., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1998
Reed, John W., Thomas M. Cooley Professor Emeritus of Law, Law School, April 30, 1998
Sanchez, Samuel, Lecturer II in Spanish, Residential College, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Sandier, Kevin S., Lecturer I in American Culture and English Composition Board, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Sawyer, Thomas M., Professor Emeritus of Technical Communication, College of
Engineering, April 30, 1998
Sell, Michael T., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Teske, Richard G., Professor Emeritus of Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 1998
Traves, William N., Lecturer II in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1998
Wacker, Roland F., Lecturer II in History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1998
Williams, G. Brymer, Professor Emeritus of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering, College
of Engineering, April 30, 1998
Williamson, Thomas A., Lecturer II in Anthropology, Residential College, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Wilson, Leon C., Lecturer I in Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Wong, Maria M., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1998
Wright, John W., Associate Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
CORRECTION TO DATE OF TERMINATION
Gunn, Sondra M., Assistant Professor Emerita of Dentistry, term complete, January 7, 1999
(previously reported as December 24, 1998)
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted for adoption
retirement memoirs for five faculty members.
Patricia M. Aldridge, assistant librarian in the English Language
Institute, retired on December 31, 1998.
Ms. Aldridge earned her B. A. degree, magna cum laude, from the
Women's College of the University of North Carolina in 1956. She taught in


201




January Meeting, 1999


public schools in North Carolina and Virginia from 1956-60 and subsequently
studied the history of Spanish language and literature at the University of
Salamanca and at the University of Madrid, Spain, in 1962 and 1967. She
received her M.A. degree in romance linguistics in 1969 and a second M.A.
degree in library science in 1977, both from the University of Michigan. From
1970-83, she worked in public libraries in Tecumseh and Adrian, Michigan.
Ms. Aldridge joined the staff of the English Language Institute (ELI) as
an assistant librarian in the Linguistics/ELI Library in 1983. This library,
which specializes in holdings in linguistics and English as a second language,
contains more than 4,000 volumes, in addition to a number of specialized
collections and 45 serials. Ms. Aldridge's specialized knowledge of these
holdings has made her an important local, regional, and state consultant.
Throughout her tenure at the University, she maintained a strong link with
the journal Language Learning to the benefit of all parties. She played a key
role in the creation of the first edition of the ITA Annotated Bibliography;
more recently, she has been heavily involved in supporting the English as a
Second Language Program for migrant farm workers.
Ms. Aldridge's interest in both books and their readers is widely known
and appreciated, as is her helpfulness when handling inquiries either in person
or on the telephone. Her outstanding interpersonal skills have contributed
greatly to the harmonious and collegial environment at the English Language
Institute.
The Regents now salute this librarian for her dedicated service by
naming Patricia M. Aldridge assistant librarian emerita.
Bruce M. Hill, Ph.D., professor of statistics, retired from active faculty
status on December 31, 1998.
Professor Hill received his B.S. degree from the University of Chicago in
1956 and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Stanford University in 1958 and
1961, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan in 1960 as a lecturer
in biostatistics. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1961, associate
professor in 1964, and professor in 1970.
Professor Hill has conducted research in a number of different areas,
including Bayesian nonparametric statistics, the probabilistic theory of urn
processes, modeling of long-tailed distributions such as the Zipf-Pareto law,
inference about the tail of a distribution, variance components models in the
random effects model, decision theory, and the likelihood principle. The
article in which he proposed what is now called the Hill tail-index estimator is
widely cited and his estimator is applied in a variety of substantive areas
dealing with extreme values. In decision theory, he showed how any
non-Bayesian real world decision procedure can be routinely improved upon
by means of a simple computational algorithm. He also demonstrated the
invalidity of the likelihood principle.
Professor Hill is the author of 45 research articles and of 5 articles that
appear in encyclopedias of the physical sciences and of statistics. He has also
written biographies of Professor L. J. Savage (formerly of the University of
Michigan) and Professor Bruno de Finetti (formerly of the University of
Rome). He has chaired the doctoral committees of 14 doctoral students,
including students from the Departments of Mathematics, Economics, Political
Science, Business Statistics, and Biostatistics, in addition to Statistics. He is a


202




January Meeting, 1999


fellow of the American Statistical Association, the Institute of Mathematical
Statistics, and the International Statistical Institute.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Bruce M. Hill
professor emeritus of statistics.
Barbara B. Murray, Ph.D., associate professor of business economics
and finance at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 1998.
Professor Murray received a B.S. degree from Michigan State University
in 1955, an M.B.A. degree from the University of Detroit in 1961, and M.A.
and Ph.D. degrees from Wayne State University in 1964 and 1967, respectively.
After teaching at both the University of Detroit and the University of
Windsor, she joined the faculty of the University of Michigan-Dearborn in
1978 as associate professor of business administration in the School of
Management. She was promoted to associate professor with tenure in 1982.
As a faculty member, Professor Murray helped to develop the economics
and financial institutions curriculum. Because of her professional activities in
industry, she was able to bring to the classroom practical experience, especially
in banking. This enriched her students' classroom experience and made the
courses meaningful to them.
Within the School of Management, Professor Murray served terms as
chair of the Department of Economics and Finance and as director of
graduate programs. She was also actively involved in business and industry
and served on the board of various regional professional associations.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for her dedicated service by
naming Barbara B. Murray associate professor emerita of business
administration.
Ronald H. Olsen, Ph.D., professor of microbiology and immunology,
retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1996.
Professor Olsen received his B.A. degree in 1957, his M.S. degree in 1959,
and his Ph.D. degree in 1962, all from the University of Minnesota. He joined
the University of Michigan faculty in 1965 as an assistant professor of
microbiology. He was promoted to associate professor in 1969 and professor
in 1975. Professor Olsen also served as associate director of the Dental
Research Institute from 1979-89, assistant vice president for research from
1987-88, associate vice president for research from 1988-91, and director of
the Institute of Science and Technology from 1987-89.
Professor Olsen's research has included studies of low temperature
effects on cellular growth; evolution and epidemiology of antibiotic resistance;
isolation and characterization of bacteria which degrade environmental
compounds and their synthetic analogues; and biochemical genetics of metal
working fluid microorganisms. His many seminal contributions to his field
have been documented in numerous scientific journal articles, book chapters,
and monographs. He was a mentor for doctoral students and teacher of
undergraduate, graduate, medical, dental, and pharmacy students.
In 1987, Professor Olsen's work in biodegradation research led to the
formation of the Michigan Universities Consortium for the Management of
Hazardous Wastes, one of most successful outcomes of which was the
Cooperative Bioremediation Research for Michigan project ("CoBioReM"), for
which Professor Olsen served as principal investigator. CoBioReM was a


203




January Meeting, 1999


collaboration among university researchers, petroleum and gas industry
site-owners, and state regulators that developed and deployed acceptable
methods for remediating soil and groundwater contamination caused by
hydrocarbon leaks and spills. For his leadership role in this project, in 1993
Professor Olsen received a Certificate of Merit from the governor and a
salutary resolution from the Michigan Legislature.
Professor Olsen has served on a number of advisory and editorial boards
and has been an invited speaker at numerous conferences and symposia. He
was elected a fellow of the American Academy of Microbiology in 1982 and
received the Distinguished Environmental Scientist Award from the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency in 1985. The holder of 20 domestic and
foreign patents, in 1985 he received the Inventor of the Year Award from the
Niagara Frontier Association.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming Ronald H. Olsen professor emeritus of microbiology and immunology.
Edward M. Schwartz, Ph.D., associate professor of psychology,
Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases in the Medical School,
retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1998.
A native of New York, Professor Schwartz received his B.S. degree in
1959 from City College of New York, and his A.M. and Ph.D. degrees, in 1961
and 1966, respectively, from the University of Michigan. He joined the faculty
as an instructor in 1966 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1970 and
associate professor in 1976.
Professor Schwartz's early research focused on problems of children
adopted in infancy. His work led to one of the earliest research studies and
publications in this area, and provided some of the impetus for opening up
adoption records to adoptees and for studying the long-term impact of the
adoption process on adoptees.
For the past 30 years, Professor Schwartz has followed patients with
neurometabolic disorders and in the process, has contributed to identifying
cognitive/learning and behavioral patterns and risks in these populations of
children with phenylketonuria, galactosemia and maple syrup urine disease.
He has had extensive clinical and research involvement in the cognitive and
behavioral risks and issues in children diagnosed with cancer. Other studies,
all involving children, have included the impact of PBB exposure on
developmental/cognitive abilities, the impact of congenital hypothyroidism on
learning and behavior, and long-term cognitive and psychosocial outcomes in
children with heart transplants and cochlear transplantations.
A skilled and sought after teacher, Professor Schwartz has served on over
20 dissertation committees and has supervised and trained many psychology
graduate students. He has shared his extensive clinical knowledge about
meeting the needs of chronically ill children and families within the medical
setting with medical students and house officers in pediatrics. He also served
as director of Pediatric Psychology for 10 years and has served on a number of
departmental and Medical School committees, including having chaired the
review committee for the University of Michigan Children's Center.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his distinguished and
productive career by naming Edward M. Schwartz associate professor emeritus
of psychology.


204




January Meeting, 1999


Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported this
month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees.
Consent Agenda Approved. On a motion by Regent Maynard,
seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents unanimously approved the
Consent Agenda. Regent Horning's vote was cast via telephone.
17 Acres of Vacant Land Located in Barry County, Michigan
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved purchase of a 17-acre parcel of vacant land in
Barry County, Michigan, at a price of $75,000, subject to the University's
satisfying itself with the environmental condition of the property and
obtaining the necessary regulatory and governmental approvals. It was
noted that Michigan Radio funds would be used to complete the purchase.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Helipad
Relocation Project
Mr. Steve Whitney, director of health care services for Albert Kahn
Associates, Inc., gave a presentation on the design of the helipad. He
displayed a site plan of the northeast corner of the medical campus, a
cross-section diagram of the site, and a computer-enhanced photograph
illustrating that the helipad would be well-camouflaged when viewed from
the road. He noted that landscaping and terracing had received a great deal
of attention in the design.
It was noted that construction of the tunnel underneath East Medical
Center Drive would account for a significant portion of the total cost of this
project.
Regent Deitch moved approval of the design of the relocated helipad as
presented, as well as authorization to issue the project for bids and award a
construction contract, providing the project remains within the authorized
budget. He commented that the availability of helicopter transportation to
the hospital is key to the University's mission for patients in critical
condition from around the region who can best be served at the University of
Michigan Hospitals. He said that this is a very creative solution to make the
helipad as inobtrusive as possible. Regent McGowan seconded the motion
and it was approved unanimously, with Regent Horning's vote cast by
telephone.
Purchasing Contract with Professor Louis Nagel
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Deitch, the
Regents unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Professor Louis
Nagel for the purchase of a Yamaha Model C-5 grand piano. Regent Horning's
vote was cast by telephone. Because Professor Nagel is a University employee,
this purchasing contract falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:


205




January Meeting, 1999


1.  Parties to the purchasing contract will be the Regents of the University of
Michigan and its College of Engineering and Professor Louis Nagel.
2.  The terms of the contract are to provide a Yamaha Model C-5 grand piano,
and to transfer the remaining eight years of warranty, available immediately,
for the amount of $20,000.
3.  Professor Nagel's pecuniary interest arises by virtue of the fact that he is the
current owner of the piano.
Purchasing Contract with Ken Arbogast-Wilson
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the
Regents unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Ken ArbogastWilson for desktop publishing and design services for the University of
Michigan Press, with Regent Horning's vote cast by telephone. Because Mr.
Arbogast-Wilson is an employee of M-Care, this agreement falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchasing contract will be the Regents of the University of
Michigan and its University of Michigan Press and Mr. Arbogast-Wilson.
2.  The terms of the contract are to provide the design of catalogs and print
advertisement for a one-year term with two one-year options to renew the
contract, by mutual agreement, beginning service in January 1999, in the
amount of $15,000 per year.
3.  Mr. Arbogast-Wilson's pecuniary interest arises by virtue of the fact that he
is the sole free-lance design provider.
Non-Tenure Track Clinical (or Practice) Appointment Sequences in
the School of Art and Design, School of Business Administration, and
School of Nursing
Provost Cantor presented three separate action requests for the
establishment of non-tenure track clinical appointment sequences: in the
School of Art and Design, the School of Business Administration, and the
School of Nursing. She noted that these faculty members holding these
appointments would be practitioners, or professors of practice, and that ten
such appointment sequences are already in place in other schools and colleges.
Provost Cantor observed that each proposal is being presented with full
support of the governing faculty of the respective school. She noted that
there is a 10% limit to the number of clinical appointments to the tenure
track faculty in all three schools, unless changed by a vote of the governing
faculty.  Conditions involving leaves of absence and voting rights are
specified by each school. She observed that having strategic appointments
that bridge the practitioner community with the school and college
curriculum will be very important.
Regent Newman moved approval of the establishment of clinical (or
practice) appointment sequences in the School of Art and Design, School of
Business Administration, and School of Nursing, as specified in the individual
Regents Communication from each school. Regent Maynard seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously, with Regent Horning's vote cast
by telephone.


206




January Meeting, 1999


Henry Russel Awards for 1999
Regent McGowan moved that Thomas C. Hales, associate professor of
mathematics; Alexander J. Ninfa, associate professor of biological chemistry;
and Ann Marie Sastry, assistant professor of mechanical engineering and
applied mechanics, receive Henry Russel Awards for 1999. Regent White
seconded the motion and it was approved unanimously, with Regent
Horning's vote cast by telephone.
Modification of the Selection Procedures and Assignment of
Administrative Responsibility for the Henry Russel Lectureship
Selection Process
Provost Cantor reviewed the proposal described in the Regents
Communication for modifying the selection procedures and for assigning
administrative responsibility for the Henry Russel Lectureship selection
process as a joint responsibility of the vice president for research and the
dean of the graduate school. On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by
Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously approved the proposal as described
in the Regents Communication, with Regent Horning's vote cast by
telephone.
Faculty and Staff Salaries
President Bollinger announced that the University would be disclosing
its annual report of salaries for faculty and staff for 1998-99. He noted that
faculty and staff compensation is a very important priority and the
institution has done its best to ensure that people are fairly and
meritoriously compensated. He said that he is proud of what has been done
in this area for this year, although there are also significant concerns about
salaries in some areas of the institution. He noted that the average 1998-99
salary increases were 4.7 percent for faculty, 3.8 percent for staff, and 3.0
percent for executive officers. Finally, he had requested that the increase in
his salary not exceed 3.0 percent.
Presidential Salary Increase. Regent McGowan made the following
motion:
The Board of Regents has conducted President Bollinger's
annual performance review, as called for in his letter of engagement.
We are well pleased, on behalf of the University, with the performance
of the president. But strictly in the spirit of-and with great respect
for-President Bollinger's desire to emphasize improving the
competitiveness of our faculty's salaries, the Board has agreed to hold
the president's increase to a percentage below that of the average
faculty increases.
Therefore, I move that the president's annual base salary be
increased 3 percent, from $283,375 to $295,996, effective September 1,
1998 and continuing through August 31, 1999.
We are taking action on this increase at this time in an effort to
coincide with the release of the general institutional salary schedules,
all of which carry an effective date of September 1, 1998.
207




January Meeting, 1999


Regent Deitch seconded the motion, and it was approved, with Regent
Horning's vote cast by telephone. Regent Newman was not present at the
time of the vote.
"Michigan Greats"
President Bollinger announced that Interim Vice President Ulaby had
requested an opportunity to celebrate the contributions of some of the
University's most distinguished alumni.
Vice President Ulaby stated that each month, the Office of the Vice
President for Research would profile an alumnus whose work has had a
decided impact on society in a very positive way. In addition to this
presentation, an article would appear in the University Record and in the
Alumni Association magazine.
The first individual to be profiled would be Claude E. Shannon, who
received bachelor of science degrees in electrical engineering and in
mathematics from the University of Michigan in 1936 and went on to receive
master's and Ph.D. degrees from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Claude Shannon is considered the "Father of Information Theory."
A presentation then followed describing Dr. Shannon's career and
accomplishments in the field of digital electronics. Following the presentation,
several Regents expressed enthusiastic support for continuing to showcase
the contributions of Michigan alumni in this fashion.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from   two individuals who were in
attendance at the meeting, and then recessed from 3:20 until 4:00 p.m. to
hear the remainder of the public comments. The following people spoke to
the Regents on the topics indicated: Trent Thompson, president of Michigan
Student Assembly, presented the MSA monthly report; Bram Elias, treasurer
of MSA, spoke about Graduate Employees Organization (GEO) contract
negotiations; Alice Hamele, citizen, spoke about medical care she had
received at the University; Brian Reich, member of the MSA Student Code
Review Committee, and Abe Rafi and Olga Savic, members of the Student
Rights Commission, spoke about the review of the code of Student Conduct;
and Eric Dirnbach and Alice Ritscherle, members of GEO, spoke about GEO
contract negotiations and issues.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:35 p.m.
The next meeting is scheduled for February 18 and 19, 1999.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and
Secretary of the University


208




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1999


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, February 18, 1999
The Regents convened at 1:45 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Horning, Maynard, McGowan,
Newman, Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice
President Feagin, Vice President Hartford, Executive Vice President Kasdin,
Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Executive Vice President
Omenn, Chancellor Renick, Interim Chancellor Schmoll, Vice President and
Secretary Tedesco, Interim Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President
Wilbanks. Regent Deitch arrived shortly after the start of the meeting.
Opening Remarks
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and reported on a
number of accomplishments of students and faculty members. He noted that
100 students would be participating in the Alternative Spring Break program
and that 4,000 students had enrolled in classes being offered as part of the
"Diversity: Theories & Practices" theme semester. He also reported that
Sam Davis, a 1998 graduate of the School of Music, had won the prestigious
Jonathan Larson Performing Arts Foundation Award for composition, and
noted that Mr. Davis is the nephew of Regent McGowan. President Bollinger
reported that several honors and awards were received by faculty members
and noted discoveries made by University physicists and researchers from
the Department of Geological Sciences and the Comprehensive Cancer
Center.
Statement Regarding Athletic Department
President Bollinger read the following statement:
For some months now the central administration and the Athletic
Department have been working together to improve the system of
budgeting and financial management of the Athletic Department in
order to insure that it will support a premier program for our
student-athletes. The recent attention to the projected increase in
prices for football tickets has made me more keenly aware of the need
to move these discussions to a more formal level. While the decision
about ticket prices met every requirement of our current system of
financial governance, it also made manifest the need for a process that
will inspire greater confidence in our financial decisions. For these
reasons, therefore, I am asking Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer Robert Kasdin to chair a committee to advise me on
the structure of financial management and long-term planning for the
Athletic Department.  This review  will include examining the
relationship between the Athletic Department, the Office of the Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, and the Board in Control. I


209




February Meeting, 1999


have discussed this with Athletic Director Tom Goss, and he joins me
in recommending this study.
Along with Executive Vice President Kasdin, the other members of the
committee will be Professor Percy Bates (currently a member of the Board in
Control), Associate Vice President and Deputy General Counsel Liz Barry,
and Alumnus Bill Martin.
Recruiting and Retaining a First Rate Faculty
President Bollinger called on Provost Cantor to discuss the environment
and conditions necessary for recruiting and retaining a first-rate faculty.
These elements are viewed as crucial to maintaining the University of
Michigan's status as a great public research university.
Provost Cantor observed that one necessary step in retaining faculty is
determining what factors make people want to stay. One of these factors is
the existing strength of the faculty; another is first-rate students; another is
a good work environment.
One of the most important factors in the work environment is wages,
which she noted have been rising at a rate greater than inflation. Skilled
labor's national average wage increase has been 4 to 5 percent. To position
the University's faculty salaries at a 4 percent increase to stay at pace with
skilled labor would cost $7.6 million for tenure and tenure-track faculty, with
an additional $1.9 million for a 5 percent increase. To include graduate
student instructors and lecturers would cost another $2 million. Therefore,
merely to keep up with the market for instructional faculty only would cost
about $11 million.
Provost Cantor said that she had asked each dean to identify a set of
peer institutions to be used for salary comparisons in their discipline. She
noted that in a number of areas the comparisons with peer institutions are
favorable. However, there are many areas of vulnerability, especially in
LS&A, but also in some professional schools. To catch up in the vulnerable
areas and thereby protect the investment we have already made in our
excellent faculty would require an additional $6 million.
Provost Cantor observed that an equal concern in retaining faculty is in
the physical aspects of the work environment, especially in the sciences,
where laboratory equipment, seed money for research and teaching
initiatives and the like can be very expensive. The startup costs for setting
up laboratories can run as high as $800,000 each. In conclusion, she stated
that even though we offer excellent research and scholarly opportunities, the
faculty will find it hard to stay if other institutions are offering more
attractive salaries and facilities in addition to the kinds of research and
scholarship opportunities that are available here.
President Bollinger noted that this and future reports by Provost Cantor
will provide opportunities for analysis of particular budgetary areas that are
of great importance to the institution, prior to the final budget presentation
in July.


210




February Meeting, 1999


Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of
the meeting of January 21, 1999.
Reports.   Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports on
Investment, Plant Extension, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action.
He noted that the search for the position of chief investment officer has
begun.
Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Interim Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects
Established for January 1999.
The Faculty Governance Update and MSA Monthly Report were
submitted.
University of Michigan Health System Report. Executive Vice
President Omenn announced that the Health System would soon be
undergoing a strategic planning process to identify crucial issues at the
system level that reflect proper scaling, balance, integration, and value-added
from each component of the Health System's mission: education, research,
clinical services, and technology development.  Central to the effort is
enhancing the Health System's ties to the rest of the University.
Executive Vice President Omenn noted that he would be chairing the
strategic planning committee, and he would be assisted by Associate Vice
President Douglas Strong. There would also be a steering committee and
four planning committees, consisting of education, research, clinical
(inpatient and outpatient), and resources and infrastructure. The other
health-discipline schools and colleges are included in the process in some
manner, but the strategic plan is directed only at the Health System. The
target date for completion of the planning process and implementation of the
action plan is December 1999.
Executive Vice President Omenn further called attention to the recently
released report of the Life Sciences Commission, the recent visit to the
Health System by Regents Brandon and White, and a recently convened
conference on venture capitalism. He also noted that the Medical School is
in the midst of celebrating its sesquicentennial.
Regent McGowan praised the Health System's response in the wake of
an explosion at the Ford Motor Company Rouge Plant. She expressed the
Regents' appreciation to the Burn Unit and Trauma Unit for their
contributions and their handling of the incident.
Student Affairs Report. Vice President Hartford announced that she
was ceding her time on the agenda to the Student Code Review Committee of
the Michigan Student Assembly. Mr. Brian Reich, chair of the review
committee, noted that in December his group had given the Regents a
comprehensive review and recommendations regarding the Code of Student
Conduct. He pointed out that the code review group had identified three


211




February Meeting, 1999


themes: 1) that most students are unaware of the Code of Student Conduct;
2) the Code could be simpler and more easily communicated; and 3) the Code
must be a living, breathing document that can easily be adapted to the
changing nature of the University over time. He then reviewed the
committee's suggested changes to the structure of and amendments to the
new Code. He noted that the committee is in favor of the proposal before the
Board to change the amendment process so that the final decision on
amending the Code will rest with the president.
Mr. Reich called on Mr. Abe Arafi, who explained how the proposed new
amendment process would operate. Mr. Trent Thompson, president of
Michigan Student Assembly, then reviewed why Michigan Student Assembly
acted as it did with respect to the Code and what it expected would happen in
the future. He noted that MSA had accepted the fact that there would be a
Code of Student Conduct and that it had accepted the rationale for having
one. Therefore, it had worked to assure that the Code would be as
"student-rights-friendly" as possible. He said that MSA believes that the
amendment gives students a role in the evolution of the code, allowing
students to identify it as "their" code that they will want to live by. Mr.
Thompson noted that MSA supports the Code of Student Conduct.
Regent Newman praised the monthly report submitted by Michigan
Student Assembly, noting that it contained a wealth of information. Regent
Maynard stated that she was impressed by the commitment of time and
energy on the part of the Student Code Review Committee in developing an
amendment process that allows everyone to have ownership.
Regent Newman said that she would like to spend time with students
involved in student government, perhaps attending classes with them and
being shown how they spend their time on campus.
President Bollinger thanked all of the students who have worked on the
Code revision, noting that they had expended a tremendous amount of effort
and that their approach had been exemplary.
Dearborn Campus Report. Chancellor Renick observed that faculty
compensation is a significant issue on the Dearborn campus as well as the
Ann Arbor campus, particularly in the area of recruiting junior faculty and
compression of salaries for senior faculty who have been in their positions for
a long time.
Chancellor Renick noted that John Miller, associate professor of
electrical engineering, had received a major National Science Foundation
grant to support undergraduate research in the area of advanced imaging
and intelligent systems. He reported that there is currently an exhibit on
campus featuring the publications and creative work of UM-Dearborn
faculty. He also noted that the UM-Dearborn Program for Academic Support
has sponsored a number of campus initiatives designed to recruit and retain
minority students from area high schools and to help these students
strengthen their skills before they enter the University.
Flint Campus Report.      Chancellor Schmoll reported that the
UM-Flint Department of Theatre's production of Earl the Vampire has been
212




February Meeting, 1999


selected to be showcased by the Kennedy Center American College Theater
Festival, and that it may be selected for performance at the Kennedy Center
in April. She noted that this production had been written by a theatre
department student.
Chancellor Schmoll also reviewed some activities that have been
sponsored by the University Outreach program, including a dance project
involving elementary schools and a winter brass festival involving local high
schools. She also reported that as part of African American History Month,
the campus was sponsoring its first annual Thurgood Marshall Breakfast as
well as an    essay contest for local high      school students.     It is also
co-sponsoring, with the City of Flint, a "Winterfest." Finally, she noted that
the Regents would be asked to participate in the North Central Accreditation
self-study process currently underway on the Flint campus.
Voluntary Support
Vice President Feagin submitted the report of Voluntary Support for
January 1999.
Andrew Abel, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics............................. $ 5,000
Terence E. Adderley, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Gerald P. Adler, Lilburn, Georgia
for support in the Medical School.......................................  5,000
Aetna Services, Inc., Hartford, Connecticut
for the University Musical Society...................................... 30,000
Airdrie Foundation, Deerfield, Illinois
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy............... 20,000
Alden Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Keith E. Alessi, Lexington, Virginia
for support in the School of Business Administration............ 5,000
Richard R. Allen, Greensboro, North Carolina
450 shares of LADD Furniture, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration and the Colleges
of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 7,791
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts.................................................... 111,907
American Foundation for Urological Disease, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for support in the Medical School........................................ 5,500
American Heart Association, Dallas Texas
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  6,563
Americana Foundation, Inc., Novi
for the Center for Heritage Landscaping Fund at Henry Ford Estate at
Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......................... 25,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships in the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School
of Business Administration and the College of Engineering and
for the Amoco Foundation Scholarship in Mechanical Engineering and
other support in the College of Engineering.............................. 25,000
AMP, Inc., Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
for the Millimeter Wave Structures Research Fund in the College
of Engineering.......................................................  50,000
Aaron D. Amster, Los Angeles, California
250 shares of Humana, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Herbert and Carol Amster Family Philanthropic Fund, Ann Arbor
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Research Fund in the Medical School.. 10,000
Thomas A. Andersen Estate
for the Thomas A. and Laura J. Andersen Scholarship..................... 46,590


213




February Meeting, 1999


Anonymous Donor
29,500 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the College of Engineering.............................. 1,544,094
Anonymous Donor
for the Sally Fleming Master Class Series Fund in the School of Music....... 50,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Medical School.................................    40,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Classical Studies Endowed Research Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................    5,000
Anonymous Donor
1,100 shares of Interstate National Dealer Services common stock
for the Clements Library............................................... 9,659
Anonymous Donor
for the Dean's Distinguished Professorship in Chinese Studies in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the Museum of Art...... 401,000
Arbor Springs Water Company, Inc., Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for support in the Schools
of Law and Music and for the Bob Ufer Memorial Fund..................... 6,000
ARCO Foundation, Inc., Los Angeles, California
for employee  matching  gifts.............................................  5,050
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School...................................... 12,500
Arts League of Michigan, Inc., Detroit
for the University Musical Society......................................  20,000
A T Kearney, Southfield
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute.... 7,500
Austin/Canoe Island Trust
for the Warren R. Austin Endowed Scholarship in the Medical School........ 10,000
Ruth Hickman Baker, Wilmington, Delaware
for the Frank H. Baker Scholarship, School of Business Administration...... 25,000
Bank of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for special exhibitions support in the Museum of Art...................... 15,000
Marjorie S. Baril, Perrysburg, Ohio
for orthopaedic education support in the Medical School, in memory of
Jam es  D. Baril.......................................................  10,000
Carolyn Baron, New York, New York
100 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock and
100 shares of Time Warner, Inc., common stock
for support of the Law School..................................       20,250
Karl G. Bartscht, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Superior Consultant Holdings common stock and a cash gift
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for the University
M usical Society.......................................................   5,544
Peggy Bauervic Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Peggy Bauervic Foundation Scholarship in the Department
of Athletics.......................................................... 12,500
Cheryl Baumgartner, Moraga, California
54 shares of International Business Machines Corporation common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................... 10,150
Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Santa Ana, California
for support in the Medical School............................ 25,000
Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., Omaha, Nebraska
164 shares of General Dynamics Corporation common stock
for the William S. Smith Research Fund in the Medical School, and
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................... 9,066
Berry Foundation, Moreland Hills, Ohio
for the Ernst & Young Professorship in Accounting in the School of
Business Administration, for support in the School of Music and the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the University of
Michigan Club of Cleveland Scholarship and the University Musical Society....... 5,000
Betz Industries, Grand Rapids
for support in the Department of Athletics and the College
of Engineering.......................................................  22,000
Bickner Family Foundation, Sycamore, Illinois
for the building fund in the Division of Kinesiology........................ 42,500
Esther Bihlmeyer Estate
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund, Medical School.... 32,000


214




February Meeting, 1999


Bishop Family Trust
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Bishop International Airport Authority, Flint
for W U OM /W VGR....................................................  5,000
Edward C. Blazevic, Spring Hill, Florida000
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 150,000
Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Michiga, Detroit
for the Partners Plus Fund in the School of Management,
the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................................... 8,000
H. Lee Blumberg, West Islip, New York
3,350 shares of NewBridge Networks common stock
for gifts pending designation......................................... 99,453
Robert P. Boardman, Jr., Littleton, Colorado
250 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for support in the College of Engineering.............................. 25,383
William J. and Claire W. Bogaard Charitable Fund, Clifton Park, New York
for the William J. and Claire W. Bogaard Fund in the Law School........... 60,000
Bonisteel Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Fund in the School of Business Administration....... 20,000
Walter W. Borland, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics, and
for the Marching Band Fund in the School of Music........................ 5,128
George H. Boyce, Kingsford
100 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock
for the Dr. George H. Boyce Fund............................................   15,238
Joel M. Boyden Sr., Grand Rapids
for the Allan F. Smith Professorship in the Law School.................... 10,000
Mary N. Bradbury, Wilmette, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 7,500
Robert S. Bradley Trust
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for support in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts..........................................................  5,000
Dickson G. Brown, Larchmont, New York
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for support of
the  Law   School.......................................................  11,000
Franklin D. Brown, Dana Point, California
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000
Ian R. N. Bund, Ann Arbor
600 shares of Electro Scientific Industries, Inc., common stock
for the Nichols Arboretum Visitor Center................................ 26,963
Burger King Corporation, Miami, Florida
for scholarships, fellowships and other student aid at the University
of Michigan..........                                               10,000
Richard R. Burns, Duluth, Minnesota
373 shares of Time Warner, Inc., common stock
for support of the Law School.......................................... 20,247
Richard J. Burstein, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics,
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, and for the
University  Musical Society..............................................  5,000
Suzanne H. Butch, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Music, and for WFUM-TV...................... 6,050
Marjorie Van Eenam Butcher, West Hartford, Connecticut
140 shares of Beckman Coulter, Inc., common stock
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund and the Carl H.
Fischer Actuarial Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, in memory of Robert W. Butcher.................................... 7,092
John W. Butler, Jr., Chicago, Illinois
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  15,100
California Technology International, Sunnyvale, California
for mathematics support, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 10,000
Brian P. Cam pbell, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,000
Kenneth H. Campbell Foundation, Grand Rapids
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  30,000
Henry L. Caulkins, Jr., Cheboygan
100 shares of Bank One Corporation common stock
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................... 5,516


215




February Meeting, 1999


Steven B. Chameides, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Foley & Lardner Fund in the Law School...........................  5000
Chang Family Trust
for the William A. Paton Accounting Scholarship in the School
of Business Administration............................................ 10,000
Anthony T. Chapekis, Dublin, Ohio
for support in the Department of Athletics............................... 5,000
Lila G. Chen Estate
for support in the Medical School.................................... 14,800
Chevron Research Company, Richmond, California
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute............................................. 10,000
Cleveland A. Christophe Stamford, Connecticut
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 25,000
Clarcor Foundation, Rockford, Illinois
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School........................ 5,000
Robert L. Cohn Estate
309 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 20,674
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for the Harry R. Cohodas Graduate Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration.............................................. 11,400
Comerica Bank - Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society....................................... 6,375
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support of the Law School, for the America Reads Program and
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................... 30,625
Computer Trading Corporation, New York, New York
for the Edward M. and Ruth B. Gramlich Fund in the School of Public Policy. 10,000
Paul Connell, Millford, Ohio
1,600 shares of Exxon Corporation common stock
for the Priscilla H. Connell Biology Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts................................................  115,700
Joseph G. Conway Village of Golf, Florida
300 shares of Bank One Copopration common stock and a cash gift
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Business
Adm inistration......................................................  15,878
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Cook Fellowships and other support in the School of Natural Resources
and Environment and for the Frederick G. L. Huetwell Visitor Center...... 151,160
Lewis H. Cooper, Ann Arbor
for the Hugh and Nan Cooper Scholarship and other support in the
School of Musice.250o............................................  25,00
Covance, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  15,000
William J. Cowlin, Crystal Lake, Illinois
13,137 shares of First Midwest Bancorp Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for support in the Department of Athletics and the Law School, and or
the Gerald and Esther Carey Professorship in the School of Business
Adm inistration......................................................  502,027
Donald C. Crafton, Granger, Indiana
for the Program in Film and Video Studies in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..................................................  5,000
Clan Crawford, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the M useum   of Art..............................................  6,000
Ronnie M. Cresswell, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 7,500
Gayle C. Crick, Indianapolis, Indiana
345 shares of Eli Lily & Company common stock and
11 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for support in the Medical School, and for the Gayle C. Crick
Scholarship for Women and other support in the College of Pharmacy....... 30,468
Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
for -research in the Medical School..................................... 106,162
Franklin M. Cunard, Clinton Township
100 shares of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., common stock
for the Class of 1949 Scholarship in the College of Engineering............... 8,347
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the Medical School....................................... 31,721


216




February Meeting, 1999


D. & N. Bank, Flint
for the Flint Banker's Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint......... 9,000
Dennis A. Dahlmann, Ann Arbor
780 shares of BankAmerica Corporation common stock
for the Dahlmann Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics,
and for the Nichols Arboretum Flowering Tree Fund...................... 47,678
William F. D'Angelo, Cape Elizabeth, Maine
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the
Medical School..................................................... 5,000
J. S. Darville, Toronto, Ontario, Canada
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 36,500
James E. Daverman Glencoe, Illinois
1,650 shares of PetsMart, Inc., common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the School of Education and for the Office for the
Study of Private Equity Finance in the School of Business Administration....... 15,675
Dearborn Firefighters, Dearborn
for the Dearborn Firefighters Burn Drive Endowment in the
M edical School.................................................   5,000
Deister Machine Company, Inc., Fort Wayne, Indiana.5,
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and for unrestricted
support of the University of Michigan................................... 11,000
Laurence B. Deitch, Southfield
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for support of the
Law School.......................................................... 5,100
Deloitte & Touche Consulting Group, Hermitage, Tennessee
for the University Musical Society.......................................  5,000
Sue Ann Demaline Estate
for the Sue Ann Demaline Scholarship.................................... 5,623
Albin G. Dembowski, Bloomfield, Connecticut
4,027 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Albin G. and Alice T. Dembowski Charitable Remainder
Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Albin and Alice
Dembowski Endowed Equipment Purchases Fund........................ 121,283
Roger E. DeMeritt Rotonda West, Florida
739 shares of Nicholas II, Inc., mutual fund for research in the
Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................  27,500
Malcolm L. Denise Living Trust
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the Arts.............................                          5,000
John L. Denniston, Northfield, Illinois
for scholarships in the Law School...................................... 25,000
Detroit Association of University of Michigan Women, Detroit
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship.....................................   5,000
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering................ 12,500
Richard and Helen DeVos Foundation, Grand Rapids
for support in the Medical School....................................... 25,000
Mrs. Grant A. Dibert, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000
J. Robert Dobbins, Dallas, Texas
for the Office for the Study of Private Equity Finance in the
School of Business Administration..................................... 10,000
James R. Donahey, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.............. 16,000
Harold C. Early, Ann Arbor
for the Harold C. Early Assistant Professor Research Award Fund
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 50,000
John R. Edman, Orchard Lake
for the John R. and Betty B. Edman Award Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................... 10,000
Electronic Data Systems Corporation, Dallas, Texas
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute.....................................................  7,500
Robert S. Ellis, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
425 shares of Smithfield Foods, Inc., common stock
for the Robert S. Ellis, M.D., Endowed Fund in the Medical School.......... 13,786
Envelope Printery, Inc., Taylor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
217




February Meeting, 1999


Frederick A. Erb, Bloomfield Hills
17,214 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowments in the Schools
of Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment....... 752,117
Ernst & Young Foundation, Lyndhurst, New Jersey
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for the William A.
Paton Scholarship and the Ernst & Young Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration and for the Cecil J. Nesbitt
Actuarial Education Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts..........................................................  5,500
Ruth Stine Fajans, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Stryker Corporation common stock
for the Stefan S. Fajans Professorship in the Medical School................. 5,469
F. B. and V. V. Fehsenfeld Charitable Foundation, Grand Rapids
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...................... 5,000
Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for student aid in the School of Business Administration for support
in the College of Engineering, and for other support at the University
of M ichigan..........................................................  38,750
David A. Finn Walled Lake
for gifts pending designation, and for the Marching Band Fund in the
School of M usic......................................................  41,000
First Chicago NBD Corporation, Detroit
for the University Musical Society, and for employee matching gifts.......... 20,050
Russell H. Fiske, Sr., Richmond, Virginia
for the Center for Cognitive Function in the School of Nursing............... 5,000
Ethel and James Flinn Family Foundation, Detroit
for the Ethel and James Flinn Family Foundation Research Fund in
the  M edical School...................................................  221,980
Floyd Lead Unitrust Fund
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund and the University
Musical Society.......................................... 6,200
Eleanor and Edselord F und, Detroit
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn...................................................  30,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Real Estate Fellowship in the School of Business Administration
and for support in the College of Engineering............................ 112,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the College of Engineering, and for the Center for
Engineering Education and Practice at the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn..................................................  150,000
Forest HeaIth Services Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society......................................  50,000
Forest Pharmaceuticals, Inc., St. Louis County, Missouri
for support in  the Medical School........................................  6,000
Foster, Swift, Collins & Smith, P.C., Lansing
for support of the Law  School..........................................  25,000
Foundation Fighting Blindness, Hunt Valley, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.....................................  114,880
Martin J. Frank, Beverly Hills, California
548 shares of Kayne Anderson Rising Dividends Fund common stock
for support in the School of Education, and for the Cecil J. Nesbitt
Actuarial Education Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  Arts..............................                           10,000
Harold L. and Gladys H. Freedman Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.................... 131,798
James M. French, San Francisco, California
1,500 shares of various corporate common stock
for the James and Ann French Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Law  School................................ 91,648
Edward P. Frohlich, Grosse Pointe Farms
2,257 shares of Albermarle Corporation common stock
for the Edward P. Frohlich Graduate Fellowship and other support in
the School of Music, for support of the Law School and for the
University Musical Society.................................. 50,007
Henry E. Fuldner, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
1,000 shares of Biochem International, Inc., common stock
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  6,000
218




February Meeting, 1999


Fundesarrollo, Barranquilla, Columbia
for research in the College of Engineering................................  15,750
John W. Geissman, Albuquerque, New Mexico
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts..........................................................  7,500
Wood M. Geist Trust
for support in the Schools of Art and Design and Education, and for the
Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 7,000
Charles Gelman Revocable Trust
for the Isadore Bernstein Fund in the School of Public Health............... 5,000
Dick Genthe Chevrolet, Southgate
for support in the Medical School, and for special events support in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center...................................... 10,000
William M. Gibson, Evans, Georgia
for the Helen B. Gibson Scholarship in the College of Engineering............ 5,000
Fred A. Gluckson, West Bloomfield
10,000 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for the David J. Gluckson Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for
the ultimate benefit of the David J. Gluckson Memorial Fund............. 586,875
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for the Research Center for Group Dynamics in the Institute for
Social Research, and for the Population Studies Center in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 169,804
James J. Grosfeld, Southfield
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in the
Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................ 20,000
Barry H. Gross, Ann Arbor
for the William Martel Professorship in the Medical School.................. 5,000
Edward A. Grossmann, Cresskill, New Jersey
for support of the Law School.......................................... 26,500
Joseph F. Haas, Atlanta, Georgia
130 shares of PepsiCo, Inc., common stock
for the Geismer-Haas-Reinach Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................  5,293
Charles N. Hall, Ann Arbor
92 shares of Philip Morris Companies common stock
for the University Musical Society......................................  5,063
William K. Hall, Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 15,000
Jean R. Hamill, Plymouth
200 shares of Associates First Capital common stock
for the Jean R. Hamill Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the Hamill-Bergman Memorial Fund in the Medical School........ 16,463
Cornelia W. Hamilton, West Hartford, Connecticut
for support in the Medical School, and for the University Library............. 5,000
Kenneth S. Handmaker, Goshen, Kentucky
for support of the Law School.......................................... 20,000
Jerry F. Hanron, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics................................ 5,000
James F. Haring Trust
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
in memory of Paul F. and Eva T. Haring.................................. 5,000
Thomas L. Harnsberger, Los Angeles, California
209 shares of Data Processing Resources Corporation common stock
for support of the Law School.......................................... 5,107
D. Lee Harris, Gainesville, Florida
for support in the School of Information, in memory of Mary B. Harris........ 5,000
Marian E. Harris, Lakewood, New Jersey
for the James E. Harris Chemistry Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 5,000
Anne Vance Hatcher, Ann Arbor
350 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for the  University  Library.............................................  25,364
Nola A. Havelka, Ithaca
for the Havelka Family Scholarship in the College of Engineering........... 15,000
Hayes Lemmerz International, Inc., Romulus
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 55,400
Gary D. Haynie, Fargo, North Dakota
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School........................... 5,000
219




February Meeting, 1999


James C. Hays, Atlanta, Georgia
for support in the Medical School....................................... 10,000
Edward J. leiser, Jr., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
70 shares of Firstar Corporation common stock
for support of the Law School........................................... 6,350
Sharon C. Herbert, Ann Arbor
for the Glenn M. Knudsvig Memorial Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts................................................. 10,000
Hermelin Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics, and
for program support in the School of Social Work.......................... 6,500
Highfield Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Community Service Learning Gift Fund........................... 15,000
Hockaday Family Fund, Mission Hills, Kansas
for the Irvine and Ellen Hockaday Fund in the Law School.................. 5,000
Homeland Foundation, New York, New York
for the Stillman Professorship in the Law School......................... 250,000
Honda Research of America, Torrance, California
for the automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute....................................................  15,000
John K. Hoyns, New York, New York
for support of the Law School..................................... 10,000
Hudson-Webber Foundation, Detroit
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning, and
for employee matching gifts............................................ 36,224
Mrs. George J. Huebner, Jr., Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics, and for research in the
Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................ 6,000
Hughes Research Laboratories, Malibu, California
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 10,000
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for the Program in Pediatric Dentistry Fund in the School of Dentistry..... 109,000
IBM Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  7,500
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Kanagawa, Japan
for rear view mirror research, Transportation Research Institute............ 35,000
Inman Family Foundation, Detroit
for support of the Law School........................................... 5,000
Verne G. Istock, Chicago, Illinois
1,000 shares of Bank One Corporation common stock
for the Mildred W. Istock Scholarship and other support in the School
of Education, for support in the Schools of Business Administration
and Music, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
and  for Cam  M ichigania..............................................  52,656
Jacobson Stores, Inc., Jackson
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the
Medical School................................................ 9,100
Michael J. Jandernoa, Grand Rapids
for the Susan and Michael J. Jandernoa Professorship in the School
of Business Administration...........................................  300,000
William R. Jentes, Chicago, Illinois
for the William R. Jentes Merit Scholarship in the Law School............. 143,433
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
Johnson & Johnson Consumer Companies, Inc., Skillman, New Jersey
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  15,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies
Contributions Fund, Princeton New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy.................................. 20,000
Johnson & Johnson Products, Inc., New Brunswick, New Jersey
for the Pharmacology Centennial Fund in the Medical School............... 15,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine, Public Health and Social
Work and for the Center for Political Studies and the Survey Research
Center in the Institute for Social Research.............................. 551,115
Kapnick Foundation, Naples, Florida
for the Harvey Kapnick Endowed Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  35,000
220




February Meeting, 1999


Richard Katcher, Beachwood, Ohio
60 shares of Tricon Global Restaurants common stock and a cash gift
for the Katcher Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the Department of Athletics and the Law School for support
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the
Universit Library.22,194
University Library.............................................  22,194
Kelsey-Hayes Company, Livonia
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute.....................................................   7,500
Elizabeth E. Kennedy Fund, Ann Arbor
for the Environmental and Global Change Education Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 5,000
Richard Kerr, Battle Creek
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,000
George Kew Trust
for support in  the Medical School........................................  8,004
Key Bank, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society...................................... 15,000
C. Robert Kidder, New Albany, Ohio
705 shares of various corporate common stock
for gifts pending designation..........................................  57,684
Helen Dyar King Fund, Phoenix, Arizona
for the Helen Dyar King Stearns Collection Endowment, School of Music..... 66,345
KL Industries, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics........ 5,000
James P. Kleinberg, Palo Alto, California
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000
William L. Knapp, Ann Arbor
2,057 shares of Warner-Lambert Company common stock
for the William and Betty Knapp Charitable Remainder Unitrust fund
for the ultimate benefit of the William L. and Betty G. Knapp Dean's
Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 151,575
Knight Foundation, Miami, Florida
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies................................... 637,071
Herbert Kohn, Kansas City, Missouri
for support of the Law School.......................................... 5,000
Masato Koreeda, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 7,500
KPMG Peat, Marwick Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
for employee matching  gifts.............................................  5,400
William G. Kring, Massapequa, New York
175 shares of LG&E Energy Corporation common stock
for the Margaret Rinderknecht Memorial Scholarship in the School of
Music, and for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 5,049
Richard P. Kughn, Farmington Hills
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................... 25,000
Sybil G. LaBudde, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
236 shares of Equifax, Inc., common stock
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts.........................................................  10,414
Kent H. Landsberg Foundation, Temecula, California
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute.............................. 10,000
Eugene M. Lang Foundation, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Jane Lang and Paul C. Sprenger Family Foundation, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Law.............. 10,000
Clifford J. Lavers, Cape Coral, Florida
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...................... 5,000
Elsie Choy Lee, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning........... 5,000
Paul L. Lee, New York, New York
for support of the Law School........................................... 5,000
Tuck and Ham Hi Lee Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering............................... 10,000
Judith C. Leondar, Kingston, New Jersey
100 shares of BellSouth Corporation common stock
for the Dr. Ralph E. Bennett Endowments in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts............................................... 8,897
221




February Meeting, 1999


Mark J. Levick, Atlanta, Georgia
for support of the Law School, and for the Humanities Institute
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 7,500
Robert R. Levine, Clifton, Virginia
180 shares of SLM Holding Corporation common stock
for gifts pendin   designation............................................ 8,303
Kirk J. Lewis Boise, Idaho
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............ 5,000
Ella Crille Lewis Estate
for unrestricted support of the Universit of Michigan..................... 22,413
Lincoln Health Care Foundation Charlotte, North Carolina
for the M. B. Landers, Sr., Memorial Student Loan Fund in the
Medical School.................................................  30,000
Jeffrey Liss, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Gertrude Nadich Liss Debt Management Endowed Fund
in  the  Law   School.....................................................  7,500
Stuart and Deena Lockman Philanthropic Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for support of the Law School........................................... 5,000
Susan C. Longo, Plano, Texas
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning............... 5,000
J. Mark and Linda C. Lozier Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Loganberry Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.............. 15,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 100,000
Paul M. Lurie, Evanston, Illinois
40 shares of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company common stock
for support in the History Department, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.......................................... 5,256
Jeffrey N. Lutz, Grosse Pointe Farms
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for the Carleton H.
Griffin-Deloitte/Touche Collegiate Professorship in the School of
Business Administration and for the Marching Band Scholarship in the
School of M usic.......................................................  5,500
Madigan Family Foundation, Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 25,000
Edward and Helen Mardigian Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Turner Geriatrics Center and the Comprehensive Cancer Center....... 500,000
William C. Martin, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for the University
Musical Society.......................................................  6,500
Oscar G. and Elsa S. Mayer Family Foundation, Madison, Wisconsin
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
Bruce R. McCaw, Bellevue, Washington
5,600 shares of AT&T Corporation common stock
for the Gene McCaw Research Fund in the Medical School................ 353,675
James A. McDivitt, Tucson, Arizona
for the James A. and Judith McDivitt Scholarship in the College
of Engineering....................................................... 10,000
C. Blake McDowell, Jr., Estate
for the C. Blake McDowell, Jr., Fund in the Law School.................. 2,050,729
Robert E. McFarland, Farmington Hills
for support of the Law  School.........................................  5,000
Charlotte McGoech, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society......................................  15,000
McInerney Leasing, Southfield
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the
M edical School........................................................  5,000
Vincent R. McLean, Westfield, New Jersey
100 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for support in the
School of Business Administration......................................  10,038
Mechanical Dynamics, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society................................  10,000
Merck Research Laboratories, Rahway, New Jersey
for research  in  the Medical School...................................... 40,000
Edward A. Michael, Naples, Florida
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for support in the
School of Business Administration..................................... 20,000


222




February Meeting, 1999


Michigan Association of Physicians from India, Bloomfield Hills
for the Michigan Association of Physicians of Indian Origin
Endowment in the Medical School...................................... 20,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for support of the Law  School..........................................  15,000
Joel S. Mindel, New York, New York
40 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock
for the Ophthalmic Research Endowment in the Medical School.............. 5,558
William E. Molin, Decatur, Illinois
146 shares of A. G. Edwards Inc., common stock
for the Marching Band Scholarship in the School of Music................... 5,242
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics,
and for the  Clements Library..........................................  18,500
James N. Morgan, Ann Arbor
183 shares of Vanguard Index Trust mutual fund for the Computer
Program Enhancement Fund in the Institute for Social Research.......... 20,000
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
700 shares of Schering-Plough Corporation common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics............................... 38,544
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the School of Music, the Clements Library and the Museum of Art......... 7,250
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint, and for employee
m atching   gifts......................................................  303,840
John S. Munn, Clark, Colorado
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in the
M edical School.......................................................  62,500
Irene M. Myers, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Art and Design............................  10,000
Margaret D. Naess Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 50,000
National Semiconductor, Santa Clara, California
for electrical and computer science engineering support in the College
of En in eering......................................................  50,000
William N. Natsis, Westerville, Ohio
for the Golf Course Commemorative Fund in the Department
of Athletics..........................................................  15,000
Ruediger Naumann-Etienne, Oakland, California
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Robert D. Neary, Pepper Pike, Ohio
for the Robert D. and Janet E. Neary Funds in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 90,000
Gregor N. Neff, New York, New York
for the Gregor N. Neff Scholarship in the Law School...................... 10,000
Newman FamilyFoundation Southfield
for the Isadore Lampe Professorship and other support in the
M edical School..................................                  26,000
Roger S. Newton, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society..............................   10,000
Virginia Stewart Nicklas, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Virginia Stewart Nicklas Scholarship in the Department of
Athletics, and for the Marching Band Scholarship in the School of Music..... 12,150
Northwest Airlines, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the University  Hospitals............................................  50,000
Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company-Milwaukee
Charitable Trust, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for employee matching gifts..............                             7,305
Michael J. Novoson, Durham, North Carolina
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................... 5,000
Harry & Olive O'Connell Management Trust
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for the Harry
O'Connell Graduate Fellowships in the College of Engineering............. 755,965
Donald A. Odell, Arkville, New York
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School........................ 5,000
Oehme, VanSweden & Associates, Inc., Washington, DC
for the Nichols Arboretum Flowering Tree Fund.... 7,500


223




February Meeting, 1999


Eric A. Oesterle, Glen Ellyn, Illinois
for support of the Law School, and for the Honors Program
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 14,000
Peter S. Ordway, Hickor Corners
for student aid in the School of Business Administration................... 17,560
Hyman Oren Estate
for the Hyman Oren Memorial Fund in the Medical School............... 1,279,545
Owner Operator Services, Inc., Grain Valley, Missouri
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation
Research Institute....................................................  10,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for physics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 20,000
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for research in the Medical School...................................... 91,764
James C. Park, Alpena
814 shares of Besser common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics.............................. 102,564
Marion L. Parkhurst, Dearborn
for the Kenneth and Marion Parkhurst Natural Areas Fellowship at
the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................................... 10,000
Garo A. Partoyan, Sarasota, Florida
for support of the Law School........................................... 5,000
Martha Hecht Pascal, Evanston Illinois
for the Martha and Roger Pascal Endowment in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................  6,000
Randolph C. Paschke, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for the Arthur
Andersen Fund for the Paton Accounting Center and other support
in the School of Business Administration................................ 11,500
Elliot S. Pearlman, Chicago, Illinois
for the Corporate Environmental Management Program in the School
of Business Administration............................................. 5,000
Peoplesoft, Inc., Pleasanton, California
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute.................................. 10,000
Raymond T.J. Perring, Vero Beach, Florida
6,250 shares of Comerica, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration..................... 407,617
Terrence G. Perris, Cleveland, Ohio
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  10,000
Personnel Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society......................................  10,000
Pfizer Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School, and for the Pfizer Lecture Series
Fund in the School of Public Health..................................... 50,000
Allan T. Popelka, Pacific Palisades, California
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
James H. Poppy, Hailey, Idaho
400 shares of Fleet Financial Group, Inc., common stock
for the James H. and Martha Chandler Poppy Scholarship.................. 17,750
Richard E. Posey, Richmond, Virginia
220 shares of Applied Materials, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 9,591
E. Miles Prentice III, New York, New York
for support of the Law  School...........................................  6,000
Pritzker Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School..................................... 281,750
Bonnie R. Proctor, Los Altos, California
84 shares of BankAmerica common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,072
Yvonne S. Quinn, New York, New York
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts................................................     21,000
Steven Radom, Bloomfield Hills
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 10,000
Rainbow Trust
for scholarships and the Ray L. Fisher Baseball Fund in the
Department of Athletics, and for support in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 9,000


224




February Meeting, 1999


John Rich, Beverly Hills, California
for the John Rich Professorship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 150,000
F. W. Richards, Ann Arbor
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................... 7,000
John H. and Anne W. Roberts Trust
for support in the Medical School....................................... 5,000
Roy H. Roberts, Naples, Florida
for the Richard H. Kingery Collegiate Professorship, School of Dentistry.... 281,683
Todd P. Robinson, Greensboro, North Carolina
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................... 10,000
Peter J. Rosewig, Stuart Florida
for the Peter J. and Theta M. Rosewig Women's Athletic Scholarship
in the Department of Athletics......................................... 50,000
Lois R. Ross Trust
for the Coleman and Lois Ross Scholarship and the FWT Learning
Resources Gift Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint................... 50,000
Stephen M. Ross, New York, New York
for the Stephen Ross Professorship in Real Estate in the School
of Business Administration........................................... 250,000
Lawrence V. Roth, Clio
139 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, in memory of Esther
and Irving Roth and Rosemary Fillion Holiday........................... 10,073
August R. Roty,Jr., Kalamazoo
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,000
Marshall V. Rozzi, Chicago, Illinois
for the S. J. Axelrod Scholarship in the School of Public Health.............. 5,000
Alma Ruppenthal, Grosse Pointe
for the Henry Ruppenthal Family Professorship in the Medical School....... 40,000
Rena Ruppenthal, Grosse Pointe
for the Henry Ruppenthal Family Professorship in the Medical School....... 20,000
Marion W. Ryan Trustee
for the Thomas P. Ryan Memorial Scholarship at the University of
Michigan-Flint and for WFUM-TV................................... 25,500
SAE International, Warrendale Pennsylvania
for the Seating Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation
Research Institute................................................... 100,000
Santa Fe Institute, Santa Fe, New Mexico
for the Holland Fest Fund............................................. 25,000
Helen S. Schaefer, Tucson, Arizona
235 shares of Unilever N. V. common stock
for the Helen Schwarz Schaefer Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  20,063
Millie Schembechler Memorial Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the
Medical School...............................................      37,500
Patricia C. Schemm Charitable Unitrust Fund
for the Ferdinand R. Schemm Fund in the Medical School.................. 64,642
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc. Madison, New Jersey
for the Schering-Plough Educational Fund in the College of
Pharmacy, and for employee matching gifts............................ 100,100
Madeleine T. Schneider, Ann Arbor
for the R. C. Schneider Neurosurgical Fund in the Medical School............ 5,000
Thomas J. Schriber, Ann Arbor
73 shares of Coca-Cola Company, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,019
Edwin D. Scott, New York, New York
for support of the Law  School...........................................  5,000
Scripps-Howard Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering..................... 5,000
Robert E. Seaman, Okemos
100 shares of Coca-Cola common stock
for the Class of 1948 Engineering Scholarship in the College
of Enneering...          8,706
of  Eng ineering.......................................................  8,706
Robert G. Segel Charitable Foundation, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 5,000
Joseph R. Seiger, Palo Alto, California
for the Joseph and Randee Seiger Scholarship in the Law School............ 15,000


225




February Meeting, 1999


Shape Corporation, Grand Haven
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 5,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering............. 37,564
Mrs. Bluma A. Siegal, Farmington Hills
for scholarships in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning........... 5,000
Clifford A. Siegel, London, England
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Gilbert Silverman, Farmington Hills
for special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............. 10,000
Bruce H. Simpson Trust
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn..... 5,000
Cece Smith, Dallas, Texas
for support in the School of Business Administration, and for the
Linn C. and Grace W. Smith Memorial Fund in the College of
Architecture and Urban Planning........................................  7,000
Judy W. Soley, Scarsdale, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
Norman M. Spindelman, Fort Myers, Florida
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,000
Laurence L. Spitters, Palo Alto, California
for support of the Law  School...........................................  7,500
William E. Steen, San Francisco, California
70 shares of Warner-Lambert Company common stock and a cash gift
for the Museum of Art and the University Library.......................... 5,304
Marc H. Steglitz, New Vernon, New Jersey
100 shares of Fred Meyer, Inc., common stock
for scholarships, fellowships and other student aid at the University.......... 5,788
Clinton F. Stimpson III, Fort Gratiot
for support in the School of Business Administration, and the
Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 31,000
Stimsonite Corporation, Niles, Illinois
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Dean C. Storkan, Hollister, California
for support of the Law  School..........................................  10,000
Subaru Research and Design, Ann Arbor
for support in the Colege of Engineering................................  18,000
Tapestry Foundation of Mary Carmel and Thomas P. Borders, Ann Arbor
for the Mary C. and Thomas P. Border's Women's Basketball
Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............................... 10,000
Tauber Family Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Joel D. Tauber Endowments in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering........................... 364,650
Taubman Company, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for the Michigan Marching Band in the School of Music.................... 25,000
Helen M. Taylor Ann Arbor
for the William B. Taylor Endowment in the Medical School................ 25,000
Randall H. Taylor, Califon, New Jersey
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 6,000
Robert M. Teeter, Ann Arbor
540 shares of Kmart Corporation common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 7,493
Tenneco Automotive, Greenwich, Connecticut
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute.... 7,500
Teva Pharmaceuticals, Kultsville, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  47,500
W. Bruce Thomas, Sewickley, Pennsylvania
150 shares of Chase Manhattan Corporation common stock
for the W. Bruce Thomas Law Library Endowment in the Law School....... 10,364
Betty Warwick Thornhill, St. Petersburg, Florida
1,276 shares of Warner-Lambert Company common stock
for the Betty W. Thornhill Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Betty and Jack Thornhill Endowed
Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 96,657
Franklin E. Tillery, Hampton, Virginia
for the Tillery Scholarship.......................................  5,000
Time Warner, Inc., New York New York
for the Time Warner Fellowship for Minority Journalists in the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies, and for employee matching gifts....... 55,700
226




February Meeting, 1999


Tisch Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Tisch Endowment for the Dean in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts................................................  600,000
Preston R. Tisch #2 Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for scholarships and the P. Robert Tisch Tennis Gift Fund in
the Department of Athletics, and for the Tisch Endowment for
the Dean in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 400,000
Torrey Foundation, Del Mar, California
Tor optical sciences research in the College of Engineering................... 9,634
Ruth L. Townsend, Lahaina, Hawaii
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute................................ 5,000
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Midland
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the
Medical School, and for employee matching gifts...................... 125,250
Toyota Motor Manufacturing North America, Inc., Erlanger, Kentucky
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute...... 20,000
Transom Technologies, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Transportation Research Institute...................... 10,000
Charles J. Trick, Livonia
for gifts pending designation..........................................  5,000
Unilever United States Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for student aid and the Associates Program in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  20,000
United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in Rabbinic
Literature College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... 20,000
Lily Uy Ham, Flint
or the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School.... 10,000
Robert W. VanHellemont, West Bloomfield
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics...................... 5,200
Richard E. Van House, Ann Arbor
90 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics, and
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College
of Engineering........................................................  5,172
Elizabeth C. Vetter, Ann Arbor
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts..........................................................  5,000
Marilyn H. Vincent, Naples, Florida
for support in the School of Business Administration..................... 300,000
George A. Vinyard, Rolling Meadows, Illinois
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  7,500
Timothy Wadhams, Ann Arbor
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics,
and for support in the School of Business Administration.................... 7,000
L. C. and Margaret Walker Foundation, North Muskegon
for WUOM/WVGR................................................... 17,360
Carey G. Wall, La Jolla, California
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 10,000
Nancy W. Walls, Stone Mountain, Georgia
for the Nancy W. Walls Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................      5,000
Julian H-C Wan, Amherst, New York
for support in the Medical School........................................ 5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for the Pharmacology Research and Education Fund in the Medical
School, and for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts.........................................................  30,000
James E. Wasco, Boxford, Massachusetts
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for the Marching
Band Fund in the School of Music and for support in the Medical
School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 5,500
David Westin, New York, New York
for the David Westin Endowment and other support in the Law School....... 5,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for the MBA Peace Corp Fund in the School of Business Administration,
and for employee matching gifts..                                    55,125
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for physics research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 67,026


227




February Meeting, 1999


Jeffrey K. Willemain, Grosse Pointe
for the Carleton H. Griffin-Deloitte/Touche Collegiate Professorship in the
School of Business Administration.......................................  5,000
Jane Brown Winkless Trust
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  111,180
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for the building fund in the School of Engineering, the University
of Michigan-Dearborn......................................... 50,000
Ronald J. Woods Charitable Trust
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................... 10,000
Larry J. Wright, Kingwood, Texas
for the Larry and Bev Wright Scholarship in the Department of Athletics...... 5,000
Robin B. Wright, Washington, DC
for the Phyllis Wright Scholarship in the School of Music.................... 5,500
Samuel E. Wyly, Dallas Texas
for Sam Wyly Hall in the School of Business Administration.............. 2,000,000
Xerox Corporation U.S.A., Rochester, New York
for the Macromolecular Research Center in the College of Engineering........ 5,000
Young Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................... 5,000
Stanley R. Zax, Woodland Hills, California
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  25,000
Samuel ZelI Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Samuel ZeUl Professorship in the Economics of Risk, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................... 300,000
Demetrius Zonars Estate
for aerospace engineering support in the College of Engineering............. 10,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Paul A. Adams, Flint
books for the University of Michigan-Flint Frances Willson Thompson Library
G. Frederic Bolling, Dearborn
art work by Ernest Trova for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Berkowitz Gallery
Nathaniel Borenstein, Ann Arbor
computers and related equipment for the School of Information
Andrew Breeding, Ann Arbor
scientific soil test field and lab equipment for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens
Patrick and Patricia Daoust, Dearborn
a framed colored drypoint etching by Edgar Chahine for the University of MichiganDearborn, Berkowitz Gallery
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
manuscript materials for the Clements Library
John L. Fox, New York, New York
a historically significant letter for the Clements Library
G. Robinson Gregory, Ann Arbor
an antique and historic German-made shotgun for the Clements Library
Jonathan T. Hale, Brooklyn
a collection of 18th, 19th and 20th century books, ephemera, and newspapers for the
Clements Library
International Business Machines Corporation, Armonk, New York
equipment for ITD
JSTOR, New York, New York
steelcase furnishings and related items for the School of Information Journal Storage Project
Keithley Instruments, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
equipment for the Solar Car Team
Donald J. Lewis, Ann Arbor
35 art pieces for the mathematics department
Martin Marx, Bingham Farms
three oil paintings by Mingshi Huang for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Berkowitz Gallery
Philip P. Mason, Dearborn
four historically significant items for the Clements Library
James V. Neel, Ann Arbor
61 potted orchids from Japan and South America for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens
Lyle E. Nelson, Honolulu, Hawaii
four typed manuscripts by Lyle E. Nelson for the Clements Library


228




February Meeting, 1999


Robert H. Patton, Darien, Connecticut
Patton family papers for the Clements Library
Andrew P. Podolsky, Mountain View, California
an original typed manuscript by Dr. Andrew P. Podolsky for the Clements Library
Richard A. Pohrt, Flint
a hand-sewn American Indian flag for the Clements Library
Thomas S. Porter, Ann Arbor
a signed print by Alan Shields for the School of Business Administration
Richard F. Ricca, Nyack, New York
a collection of Thompson family papers for the Clements Library
Nancy D. Stephenson, Villanova, Pennsylvania
a collection of Johnson-Brown-Dhew family papers for the Clements Library
Susan B. Strange, Potomac, Maryland
historic and artistic photographs for the Clements Library
Susan C. Wineberg, Ann Arbor
an extensive collection of gastronomic materials and a collection of 19th and 20th
century photographs for the Clements Library
Clarence Wolf, Gladwyne, Pennsylvania
two printed items for the Clements Library
Michael Ziman, Ardsley, New York
two 19th century hand-colored prints for the Clements Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Michihiko Akiyama, Ann Arbor          Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
John Arthos, Ann Arbor                Grace K. Maxfield, Ann Arbor
Fred Blum, Farmington Hills           Herman L. Miller, Ann Arbor
Kip Cicotte, Ypsilanti                Frank Omilian, Southfield
Ray Cicotte, Garden City              James I. Porter, Ann Arbor
Geoffrey F. Compton, Ann Arbor       Jacob M. Price, Ann Arbor
John W. Eliot, Ann Arbor              S-3 Engineering, Inc., Ann Arbor
William H. Finch, Ann Arbor           ArleneP. Shy, Ann Arbor
Lynn Gau, Hartland                    Michael Skora, Ann Arbor
Marlene E. Gordon, Ann Arbor          William Stamelos, Fort Myers, Florida
J. Michael Hagopian, Thousand Oaks,   Evelyn J. Swenson, Puyallup,Washington
California                       Julia Chow Tai, Farmington Hills
K&F Electronics, Inc., Fraser         Thelma K. Thomas, Ann Arbor
A. D. Katz, Saline                    Ann T. VanRosevelt, Ann Arbor
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted a number of personnel
actions and personnel reports, and called attention to the appointment of
Rebecca Blank as dean of the School of Public Policy. She also noted that
recommendations were being made for Thurnau professorships, which
recognize outstanding contributions of faculty to undergraduate education.
Chancellor Renick submitted several recommendations for the Dearborn
campus.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective August 1, 1999
Blank, Rebecca M., Ph.D., Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, and Dean and Henry
Carter Adams Collegiate Professor of Public Policy, five year term, School of Public
Health, and Professor of Economics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts


229




February Meeting, 1999


REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1999
Mays, Clarita, reappointed Assistant Dean of Student and Multicultural Affairs, School of
Social work, five year term
Mowbray, Carol T., reappointed Associate Dean for Research, School of Social Work, one
year term
Waissi, Gary R., Interim Dean, UM-Dearborn School of Management, one year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Barsan, William G., Chair, Department of Emergency Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1999
Bord, Donald J., Interim Dean, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
March 1-August 31, 1999
Graham-Bermann, Sandra, Associate Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 1999
Sowers, MaryFran R., Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School,
March 1, 1999
Tonomura, Hitomi, Associate Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 1999
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing Professorships
Henry Carter Adams Collegiate Professorship in Public Policy, School of Public Policy, five
year renewable term, February 22, 1999
Bert N. LaDu Professorship in Anesthesiology Research, Medical School, five year
renewable term, March 1, 1999
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective July 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Appointments to Established Professorships
Adams, Julia P., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, School of Social Work, three year term
Assanis, Dionissios, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, College of Engineering, three year term
Castagnacci, Vincent E., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, School of Art and Design, three year term
Douglas, Susan J., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, three year term
Frisancho, A. Roberto, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts,three year term
Lawrence, Theodore S., Isadore Lampe Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical School, five
year term, February 1, 1999
Najafi, Khalil, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, College of Engineering, three year term
Peterson, Christopher M., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, three year term
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1-April 30, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Anferov, Vladimir A., Diploma, Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Becker, Audrey L., M.A., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts


230




February Meeting, 1999


Choe, Hae M., Pharm.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy,
January 11-June 30, 1999
Climo, Alison H., M.S.W., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Coulter, Kevin P., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Cyr, Ronald M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical
School, January 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Dawson, Emily C., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Hunt, Diana L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology and Lecturer I in English Composition
Board, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Kantor, Lana, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Khan, Pauline B., B.S.M.E., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering,
January 1-May 31, 1999
Lane, Gregory C., B.A., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Lin, Ali M. T., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Lind, Mary B., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering,
January 1-May 31, 1999
Meier, Joyce A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Millar, Katherine B., M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1-May 31, 1999
Paice, Kimberly A., M.A., Lecturer II in History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Parks, William T., III, D.M.D., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
January 4-August 31, 1999
Price, Margaret B., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Quigg, Mary H., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
February 1, 1999-January 31, 2002
Ritchie, Helena H., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
December 7, 1998-August 31, 2001
Rouff, Lisa C., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology and Lecturer I in English Composition Board,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Sano, Kiyoshi, M.D., Clinical Instructor 11 in Family Medicine, Medical School, January 1, 1999 -December 31, 2000
Schroeter, Francois, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Seetoo, Amy D., M.B.A., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures
Shea, William F., Ph.D., Lecturer II in American Culture, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Shehab, Joslyn M., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School,
January 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Shields, Ann M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1, 1999-December 31, 2002
Sinclair, Lisa M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Stem, S. Rex, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Strauss, Michelle E. B., M.A., Lecturer I in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Sweeney, Christopher J., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Tecchio, Monica, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
CORRECTION TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 14, 1998-December 13, 2000
Roth, Victor S., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
(previously reported as Lecturer in Internal Medicine)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Nease, Donald E., Jr., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Medical
School, December 1, 1998-November 30, 1999


231




February Meeting, 1999


Standifer, James A., Lecturer II in American Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1-April 30, 1999
Tropman, John E., from Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, and
Lecturer II in Honors, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Professor of
Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, May 1, 1998
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Brown, Donald R., Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1-April 30, 1999
Castor, C. William, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
December 1, 1998-November 30, 1999
Crowfoot, James E., Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources and Urban and Regional
Planning, School of Natural Resources and Environment, January 1-April 30, 1999
Graves, Helen M., Associate Professor Emerita of Political Science, UM-Dearborn College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, appointed to the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1-April 30, 1999
Gray, Whitmore, Professor Emeritus of Law, Law School, January 1-March 19, 1999
Kostyo, Jack L., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 1999
Malvin, Richard L., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 1999
Menge, Alan C., Associate Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 1999
Menlo, Allen, Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, appointed to the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 1999
Miller, James M., Associate Professor Emeritus of Industrial and Operations Engineering,
College of Engineering, June 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Miller, Murray H., Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering, January 1-April 30, 1999
Murphey, Rhoads, Professor Emeritus of History, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1-April 30, 1999
Sawyer, Thomas M., Professor Emeritus of Technical Communication, College of
Engineering, May 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Schmerl, Rudolf B., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education,
appointed to the College of Engineering, January 1-April 30, 1999
Shafter, Edward M., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Humanities, College of Engineering,
appointed to the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 1999
Yeh, Gregory, Professor Emeritus of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, College of
Engineering, January 1-December 31, 1999
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Baxter, William H., III, Associate Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with
tenure, and Associate Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, without tenure,
Program in Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, family medical
leave, January 1-March 29, 1999
Bord, Donald J., Professor of Physics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998
Lang, Walter P., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, extended
sick leave, August 1, 1998-July 31, 1999
Murphy, Susan A., Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1999
Peacor, Donald R., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1999
Smith, Robert L., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, College
of Engineering, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1999
Smith, Richard C., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Director, Program in
American Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 1999


232




February Meeting, 1999


Smuts, Barbara B., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, personal leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Tesh, Sylvia N., Assistant Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, School of
Public Health, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Tsai, Luke Y., Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, and Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, without tenure, Medical School, extended sick leave,
November 25, 1999-February 9, 2000
CANCELLATION OF
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Rowan, Brian P., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave
canceled (previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1999)
CORRECTION TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Paulson, William R., Professor of French, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31,
1999 (previously reported as January 1-December 31, 1999
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Berrios-Torres, Sandra I., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, Medical School, January 18, 1999
Chiao, Ping-Chun, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, December 31, 1998
Dowling, Catherine A., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School,
February 8, 1999
Enke, David L., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering,
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering, December 31, 1998
Garner, Warren L., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School,
December 31, 1998
Harris, Ellen M., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy,
December 31, 1998
Kahler, Shelly L., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, December 31, 1998
Kennedy, Bryan, Associate Professor of Music (Horn), with tenure, School of Music,
May 31, 1999
Kridli, Suha, Assistant Professor of Nursing, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies, December 31, 1998
Loder, Randall T., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, December 31, 1998
Montgomery, Patricia A., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy,
January 15, 1999
Petershack, Jean A., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
January 31, 1999
Retired
Patterson, Willis C., Professor of Music, with tenure, June 30, 1999
Term Completed
Abbas, Haruhi A., Lecturer II in Japanese, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
An, Yanming, Lecturer II in Chinese Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Brennan, Kathleen A., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 30, 1998
Broadbridge, Edward J., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1998
Chang, Kay S., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Chiba, Toru, Lecturer II in Japanese, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1998


233




February Meeting, 1999


Edmonds, Philip B., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1998
Heinrichs, Kara A., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering, April 30, 1998
Kats, Boris A., Lecturer II in Slavic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Kelly, Patricia L., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering,
December 31, 1998
Kim, Hae-Young, Lecturer II in Korean Language, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 1998
Leighton, Ian K., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Olvegard, M. Charlotta, Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Proulx, Christopher D., Lecturer I in Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 1998
Reynolds, Jonathan M., Assistant Professor of History of Arts, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Assistant Professor of Architecture, College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, May 31, 1999
Robinson, Sally A., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1999
Sharf, Elizabeth H., Lecturer II in History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 1998
Skantze, P. A., Assistant Professor of English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 1999
Sweeney, Christopher J., Lecturer II in Comprehensive Studies and Lecturer II in Physics,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Tanke, John W., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, term complete, May 31, 1999
Traphagan, Tomoko W., Lecturer I in Japanese Language, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, April 30, 1998
Vivian, Weston E., Lecturer in Electrical engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, April 30, 1998
Wat, Albert Y., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1998
Retirement Memoirs
Vice President Tedesco submitted recommendations for the adoption of
retirement memoirs for three faculty members.
James M. Kister, Ph.D., professor of mathematics, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 1998.
Professor Kister received his B.A. degree in 1952 from the College of
Wooster and his M.A. (1956) and Ph.D. (1959) degrees from the University of
Wisconsin. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an instructor of
mathematics in 1959 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1961,
associate professor in 1964, and professor in 1966.
As a research assistant at Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory from 1953-56,
Professor Kister worked with some of the earliest electronic computers on a
variety of scientific projects, including, with several others, the design of a
program for a computer to play chess. There is now an extensive history of
this subject, but the Los Alamos program was the first to show that it was
feasible. All of Professor Kister's research since that time has been in the area
of topology, a modern branch of pure mathematics. The so-called "Kister
Isotopy" was an important contribution to the then emerging theory of higher
dimensional topology. During a postdoctoral fellowship at the University of
Virginia in 1960-61, Professor Kister solved a famous old problem of P.A.
Smith by producing an example of a periodic transformation of higherdimensional Euclidean spaces with no fixed points. While studying at the


234




February Meeting, 1999


Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton from 1962-64, Professor Kister
became interested in John Milnor's important work on "microbundles," and he
proved that Milnor's microbundles were in fact classical topological bundles.
This important step vastly simplified the current theory and finally showed
that the topological manifold theory could be described with elegance and
simplicity unmatched by the classical differential theory.
Professor Kister has taught undergraduate courses in a wide variety of
subject areas, as well as graduate courses in algebra, logic, and topology. He
has directed eight doctoral dissertations and greatly helped with several more.
He served as chair of the Department of Mathematics from 1971-73 and
directed the graduate office as associate chair from 1988-92 and 1994-96. He
twice served as managing editor of the Michigan Mathematics Journal (1978
and 1983-88) and has held visiting appointments at a number of institutions,
both here and abroad.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming James M. Kister
professor emeritus of mathematics.
David G. Shappirio, Ph.D., professor of biological sciences in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status
on December 31, 1998.
Professor Shappirio received his B.S. degree in 1951 from the University
of Michigan and his A.M. (1953) and Ph.D. (1955) degrees from Harvard
University. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1957 as an
instructor and was promoted to assistant professor in 1959, associate
professor in 1963, and professor in 1967.
Professor Shappirio's research has effectively used metamorphosing
insects as experimental models for studying cellular and molecular events in
insect development. He has been interested especially in the process of
diapause, an environmentally controlled state of arrested development initiated
and terminated by specific hormones and involving spectacular metabolic and
biosynthetic changes. Analysis of this process has profound implications for the
understanding of developmental processes in organisms generally.
From 1976-83, Professor Shappirio served as associate chair for
instruction and curriculum in the Division of Biological Sciences and had a
primary role in the creation of introductory courses that have effectively
conveyed the major advances and excitement of modem biology. From 1983-91,
he served as director of the Honors Program in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts. In addition to his contributions to introductory course
development, Professor Shappirio also has been involved in the creation of
several courses at the intermediate and advanced levels. He is a superb and
very approachable teacher whose lectures are models of clarity and intellectual
rigor. His exceptional teaching skills were recognized by his appointment as
an Arthur F. Thurnau Professor in 1989, which was extended in 1992. He
has also received an award from the AMOCO Foundation for distinguished
undergraduate teaching and another from the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts for excellence in education. Professor Shappirio has also been an
effective mentor of predoctoral and postdoctoral students and a research
advisor for more than two dozen undergraduates.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming David G.
Shappirio professor emeritus of biological sciences.


235




February Meeting, 1999


Gene E. Smith, Ph.D., assistant dean and professor of mechanical
engineering, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1998, after a
distinguished career spanning thirty-seven years as an educator and scholar
in the field of thermodynamics.
Professor Smith received his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in 1959, 1960,
and 1963, respectively, all in mechanical engineering and all from the
University of Michigan. He joined the faculty as an assistant professor in 1963
and was promoted to associate professor in 1968 and professor in 1978.
Professor Smith has carried out research and published papers on many
topics in thermodynamics, including refrigeration and air conditioning,
optimization of thermal systems, energy utilization and management, energy
storage, alternate energy sources, direct energy conversion, micro climate
cooling, and electric and hybrid vehicles. He has served as a visiting professor
at the University of Tokyo and University of Osaka.
Professor Smith's record of service to the University, College of Engineering,
and Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics (MEAM)
is excellent. He served as chair of MEAM's graduate programs from 1981-86,
associate chair of the department from 1984-86, and has served as assistant
dean of the College of Engineering since 1987. In his role as assistant dean, he
exhibited tremendous dedication to undergraduate students. He served as an
advocate for student needs and as an advisor to many first-year and secondyear students, as well as having overall responsibility for first-year advising.
During his tenure as assistant dean, he also served as advisor to numerous
solar car teams and was a tireless supporter of their efforts. From 1996-98,
he served as a member of the executive committee for the college's Institute
for Environmental Science, Engineering and Technology. He has received the
College of Engineering's Citation for Outstanding Teaching as well as its
Excellence in Service Award.
The Regents salute this distinguished educator and scholar by naming
Gene. E. Smith professor emeritus of mechanical engineering.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported this
month.
Degrees. Provost Cantor submitted for approval final degree lists for
the December 1998 commencements and changes to previously approved
degree lists. These recommendations are on file in the Office of the Vice
President and Secretary of the University.
Consent Agenda approved. On a motion by Regent Maynard,
seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent
Agenda.
There followed a five-minute break, beginning at 3:00 p.m.
The meeting reconvened at 3:05 p.m.
Executive Vice President Kasdin highlighted an article that had
appeared in the February 1999 issue of Architecture magazine on the
restoration of the University of Michigan's Detroit Observatory.


236




February Meeting, 1999


Large Capitalization Domestic Equity Manager
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the
Regents unanimously approved the appointment of Alliance Capital
Management, L.P., as a large capitalization domestic equity manager.
E. H. Kraus Building
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved a project for remodeling of the second floor of
the E. H. Kraus Building at an estimated cost of $950,000.
South Quadrangle Electrical and Fire Alarm System Upgrade
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved a project for upgrading the existing electrical
and fire alarm systems in South Quadrangle, as described in the Regents
Communication.
Regent McGowan asked whether carbon monoxide emissions is a cause
for concern in the residence halls. Executive Vice President Kasdin said he
would investigate this matter and report back.
North Campus Road Repairs
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved a project for repair of sections of roads on
North Campus, as described in the Regents Communication.
UMHHC Magnetic Resonance Imaging Scanner Project
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a project for acquisition of a third magnetic resonance
imaging scanner, placement of the scanner adjacent to the existing imaging
center at the East Ann Arbor site, and appointment of Albert Kahn
Associates, Inc., as the architect.
Purchasing Contract with Absolutely Karaoke
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Deitch, the
Regents approved a purchasing contract with Absolutely Karaoke. Regent
Newman was not present when the vote was taken. Because the sole owner
and stockholder of Absolutely Karaoke, Ms. Julie Peterson, is also a
University of Michigan employee, the purchasing contract falls under the
state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the purchasing contract will be the Regents of the
University of Michigan and its Department of Arts and Programs at
the Michigan Union and Absolutely Karaoke.
2.  The terms of the contract are to provide karaoke performances
weekly from January through April of 1999, at a total amount of
$2,000.
3.  Ms. Peterson's pecuniary interest arises by virtue of the fact that she
is the sole owner of Absolutely Karaoke.
237




February Meeting, 1999


Agreement between the University of Michigan and Harvard
University
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and
Harvard University involving a subcontract awarded to Harvard University
as part of a grant to the University of Michigan from the National Institutes
of Health for the project, "Torture and Mental Health in South Africa."
Regent Newman was not present when the vote was taken. Because one of
the parties to the agreement, Dr. Ronald Kessler, is also an adjunct research
scientist at the University of Michigan's Institute of Social Research, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Harvard
University.
2.  Terms of the agreement include a total subcontract of approximately
$160,000 to cover the period September 30, 1998 through May 31, 2003.
The University's standard subcontract provisions will apply.
3.  Dr. Kessler's appointment at the University of Michigan runs through
July 2000 and is without compensation. The subcontract will support
his collaborative activities at Harvard University.
Reassignment Agreement between the University of Michigan
and Charles N. Ellis, M.D.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the
Regents approved a reassignment agreement between the University of
Michigan and Charles N. Ellis, M.D., regarding the invention, "Lattice
System Global Scale for Psoriasis." Regent Newman was not present when
the vote was taken. Because Dr. Ellis is also a University of Michigan
employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Charles
N. Ellis, M.D.
2.  Terms of the agreement include payment to the University on a
quarterly basis of fifteen percent (15%) of royalties, equity, or other
value received by Dr. Ellis through subsequent marketing and licensing
of the invention, "Lattice System Global Scale for Psoriasis." There
will be no use of University facilities or services without appropriate
approvals. The agreement includes standard terms approved by the
Board of Regents on July 16, 1987.
Reassignment Agreement between the University of Michigan
and Gary J. Nabel, M.D.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the
Regents approved a reassignment agreement between the University of
Michigan and Gary J. Nabel, M.D., regarding the invention, "Genetic
Immunization for Ebola Virus Infections." Regent Newman was not present


238




February Meeting, 1999


when the vote was taken. Because Dr. Nabel is a University of Michigan
employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Gary J.
Nabel, M.D.
2.  Terms of the agreement include payment to the University on a
quarterly basis of fifteen percent (15%) of royalties, equity, or other
value received by Dr. Nabel through subsequent marketing and
licensing of the invention, "Genetic Immunization for Ebola Virus
Infections." The agreement includes standard terms approved by
the Board of Regents on July 16, 1987.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Thromgen, Inc. ("Thromgen") (NIH Phase I STTR)
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan
and Thromgen, Inc. ("Thromgen") involving a STTR Phase I grant from the
National Institutes of Health. Regent Newman was not present when the
vote was taken. Because Dr. Alvin H. Schmaier is both University of
Michigan employee and president and part-owner of Thromgen, and Dr.
Ahmed A.K. Hasan is a Thromgen employee with an appointment at the
University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and
Thromgen, Inc.
2.  Terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of
performance is six months at a total cost of $56,040.
3.  Dr. Schmaier's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of 20%
of the company's stock; Dr. Hasan's pecuniary interest arises from
his position as a 100% employee of Thromgen.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Thromgen, Inc. ("Thromgen") (NIH Phase II STTR)
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan
and Thromgen, Inc. ("Thromgen") involving a STTR Phase II grant from the
National Institutes of Health. Regent Newman was not present when the
vote was taken. Because Dr. Alvin H. Schmaier is both University of
Michigan employee and president and part-owner of Thromgen, and Dr.
Ahmed A.K. Hasan is a Thromgen employee with an appointment at the
University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and
Thromgen, Inc.


239




February Meeting, 1999


2.  The terms of the proposed agreement conform to University policy.
The period of performance is one year at a total cost of $158,004.
3.  Dr. Schmaier's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of 20%
of the company's stock; Dr. Hasan's pecuniary interest arises from
his position as a 100% employee of Thromgen.
Regent Newman returned to the table at this point, at 3:20 p.m.
Review of the Code of Student Conduct
Vice President Hartford noted that when the Code of Student Conduct
was initially adopted in 1995, it was with the understanding that it would
undergo a thorough review in three years. She said that the review has
taken place, and it included an internal self-evaluation by the Office of
Student Conflict Resolution; a University review committee; an external
review team composed of representatives from Dartmouth, University of
Virginia, and Northwestern University and a review by a committee of MSA.
Vice President Hartford observed that as a result of the review, there is
a good understanding of what the code does well, where improvements are
needed, and how it should evolve over the coming years. She said the review
process has been good for the institution, has expanded students' knowledge
about the code, and has provided good feedback about how information about
the code should be communicated to students in the future. She was pleased
at the finding that the Office of Student Conflict Resolution focuses on an
educational, rather than a punitive or legalistic process.
Regents Maynard and Taylor complimented Vice President Hartford and
her staff for the thorough and inclusive review that was undertaken.
1999-2000 University Residence Hall and Family Housing Rates
Vice President Hartford observed that she appreciates the Regents'
focus on cost-effectiveness in the operation of residence halls. She reported
that in response to the concerns expressed by the Regents about
benchmarking, the Association of College, University, and Housing Officers
and the Big Ten Housing Officers have made benchmarking a national
priority among housing officials.
Regarding the rate proposal, Vice President Hartford noted that
University Housing has undergone significant cost-saving and reallocation of
expenses, with over $1 million in costs having been cut in the last three
years.
Regent Deitch moved approval of an average rate increase of 2.3 percent
for University-owned residence halls and 2.3 percent for apartments, as
described in the Regents Communication. Regent Newman seconded the
motion.
Regent Newman commented that she was very pleased by the Housing
proposal, and by the efforts that have been made in keeping up with
technology needs in the residence halls. She asked President Bollinger if the
central dining facility that had been proposed several years ago for the


240




February Meeting, 1999


Hill-area residence halls was still under consideration. She pointed out that
consolidation of the separate dining facilities that currently exist in each
residence hall may be another area that can be pursued for cost-savings.
President Bollinger responded that the central dining facility proposal
has been put on hold, with no plans to move forward, and that it is now a
part of the master planning process. Vice President Hartford noted that the
cost of renovating the dining halls in the four "Hill" residence halls is being
examined, along with the cost of a central facility. She said that from a
Housing point of view, a common dining hall is desirable. But the decision
needs to be viewed in conjunction with plans to increase "living/learning"
options for students, as well as how well new construction would fit in with
the master plan currently being developed.
Provost Cantor noted that the aim of "living/learning" programs is to
create a sense of community for incoming freshmen and sophomore students,
and the concern is how this would be affected by a central dining facility.
Assuming that kitchen and dining renovations could be done in an
economical fashion within the existing residence halls, the current thinking
is that these would help create a sense of community within a large
university. Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that his staff is working
with staff from student affairs to review the dining facility cost options, as
well as the general area of capital needs of Housing and Student Affairs.
President Bollinger observed that the issue of whether to construct a
central residence hall dining facility is a major decision involving esthetic
issues for a critical area of the campus and also is part of the ongoing debate
on the programmatic issues involving residence halls.
The vote was then taken, and the motion to approve residence hall and
family housing rates for 1999-2000 was approved unanimously.
"Michigan Greats"
Vice President Ulaby gave a presentation on Charles Correa, architect
and planner, who received a bachelor's degree from the University of
Michigan College of Architecture and Urban Planning in 1953. Mr. Correa is
a major figure in contemporary architecture known for his great range of
projects and sensitivity to social and environmental concerns.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the
topics indicated: Ray Fullerton, alumnus, on the UM Football Stadium halo;
Audrey Jackson, alumna, on the role of public institutions; Michelle Semins,
student, on the Code of Student Conduct; Paul Ching, student and member
of the GEO Steering Committee, on the status of GEO (Graduate Employees
Organization) contract negotiations; and Joe Sexauer and Peter RomerFriedman, students and members of SOLE (Students Organizing for Labor
and Economic Equality), on sweatshops and the proposed labor code of the
Collegiate Licensing Corporation.


241




February Meeting, 1999


Code of Student Conduct Amendment Process Change
Vice President Hartford commented that the proposed change in the
amendment process for the Code of Student Conduct would move the locus
of amendments to the code from the Board of Regents to the Office of the
President.
Regent Brandon moved approval of the proposed new language for
Section I of the "Related Procedures" section of the Code of Student Conduct
("Amending the Code of Student Conduct"). Regent Deitch seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously. The new language follows:
"CODE OF STUDENT CONDUCT. RELATED PROCEDURES,
SECTION I (AMENDING THE CODE OF STUDENT CONDUCT)"
The Michigan Student Assembly, the Senate Assembly or the Executive
Officers of the University may propose amendments to the Code. All proposed
amendments will be reviewed by the Student Relations Committee of SACUA.
After consultation with each of the above mentioned groups, the Student
Relations Committee will forward proposed amendments to the president of the
University with the committee's recommendation on implementation. The final
decision on emending the Code will be the president's.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:25
p.m.. The next meeting is scheduled for March 18-19, 1999.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and
Secretary of the University


242




MARCH MEETING, 1999


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, March 18, 1999
The Regents convened at 1:40 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Horning, Maynard, McGowan,
Newman, and White. Also present were Provost Cantor, Executive Vice
President Feagin, Vice President Hartford, President Kasdin, Vice President
and General Counsel Krislov, Executive Vice President Omenn, Chancellor
Renick, Interim Chancellor Schmoll, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco,
Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regent Taylor arrived
at about 2:00 p.m.; Regent Deitch was absent.
Anti-Sweatshop/Human Rights Policy
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and read a statement
with respect to the production of apparel and merchandise bearing the
University mark.
"Today we are announcing a comprehensive policy designed to
ensure that apparel and merchandise bearing the University mark or
other insignia are manufactured in accordance with ethical and legal
business practices. We at this university are a leader in the marketing
of university apparel, and we want to help lead in guaranteeing that
the workers who make these goods receive their human rights and
basic human dignity. We are proud of this policy. It will help insure
fundamental freedoms for these workers, including decent and safe
working conditions and protection from coercive exploitative conditions.
To insure that these principals are followed, we are committing to full
public disclosure of the manufacturing locations of our licensees. We
are also committed to studying carefully the issue of compensation
standards. We will join other educational institutions and national
and international organizations to try to determine guidelines for
wages that will meet at least basic needs consistent with human rights
and human dignity.
"Let me say a word about our students who have helped lead the
call for this policy. I have met with them on two occasions and I know
they have met with others on numerous occasions, especially with Vice
President Krislov. Many of the students have been residing in my
office for the past two days. We can be enormously proud of these
students for the work that they have done on this issue and for their
efforts to try to help us understand how to think about these important
questions of human rights. They remind all of us how important it is
to consider our impact on others in the greater communities we touch.
We have been able to agree with the students on virtually every
point. We have not been able to agree on the extent to which we can
commit ourselves to standards not yet defined. We must be responsible


243




March Meeting, 1999


about the commitments we make. We share the students' objectives
and look forward to working with them to implement these principles.
There is plenty of work to do; a piece of paper alone, after all, does not
achieve the results we all want. Let me reassure the students that we
will continue to respect their rights to speak and that we do not plan to
prosecute or penalize them   in connection with their exercise of free
speech."
President Bollinger then distributed copies of the following policy:
ANTI-SWEATSHOP/HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY
The University of Michigan, the nation's leading college or university in the
sale of licensed apparel and other goods, is committed to ethical and legal
business practices. Accordingly, for the past several years, we have been actively
participating in the national dialogue designed to eradicate sweatshop conditions
surrounding the manufacturing of products publicly associated with this
University.
As reported previously to the Board of Regents, for the past 17 months the
University has served on a task force of colleges and universities affiliated with
the Collegiate Licensing Company. The task force is completing work on a code
of conduct for licensees that will help guarantee safe, healthy, and fair conditions
for workers who produce these licensed goods. The University also has engaged
in discussions with the U.S. Labor Department, the Apparel Industry Partnership
and the newly-formed Fair Labor Association, non-governmental entities and the
many private and public sector parties who have joined the dialogue.
These issues have provoked sustained concern from many parts of our
community: students, including the Michigan Student Assembly, have spoken out
and demanded that the University take a position on eliminating sweatshops and
ensuring fair working conditions for those who produce University of MichiganMarked goods. We, therefore, wish to articulate the University's principles on
these important human rights issues.
Principles:
1.   Code of Conduct. We believe firmly that workers in this country and
abroad who help produce licensed goods bearing the insignia or name
of the University of Michigan, should be treated humanely and fairly
and should work under healthy and safe conditions. Accordingly, we
will endorse the task force's recommendations that a Code of Conduct
for all licensees include important provisions, many of which are
supported by national or international law and deeply held norms.
These provisions aim to ensure:
Compliance with all applicable national laws;
*   Compensation standards, including payment of the higher of the
minimum wage or local prevailing wage;
Humane limitations on the required hours of work;
Premium rates for overtime work;
Limitations on child labor, consistent with international and national
law;
Prohibition of forced labor;
Safe and healthy working environment;
Nondiscrimination in employment based on gender, race, religion,
age, disability, nationality, or ethnic origin;
*    Prohibition of harassment of employees; and
*    Freedom of association and collective bargaining.


244




March Meeting, 1999


2.  Commitment to Implementation.    We also believe firmly that
ensuring that these provisions (and others as described below) are
followed will require commitment and follow-through, not only by
this institution, but by other colleges and universities and many
interested parties. We, therefore, will join appropriate associations,
consortia, or other groups that will work to ensure compliance by
licensees and manufacturers. As the task force draft recommendations
recognize, it will be necessary to create a system of independent
monitoring across many different countries.  Licensees will be
expected to verify and monitor compliance, but we can be confident
of the results only if outside, credible sources confirm that the
conditions are being met.
3.  Anti-Sweatshop Advisory Committee. We will establish an AntiSweatshop Advisory Committee composed in equal proportions of
students, faculty and staff to study these important issues. Students
will be appointed in consultation with the Michigan Student
Assembly and faculty will be appointed in consultation with the
Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs and the Academic
Program Group. This advisory committee will advise University
administrators on issues including the Code of Conduct for licensees,
the monitoring system, and may sponsor fora, studies or other
educational or informational efforts.  The Advisory Committee
should submit its initial report to the President within 12 months of
the committee's appointment, and shall submit short update reports
quarterly until that time.
4.  Public Disclosure. We believe that members of this community, and
consumers of University of Michigan licensed merchandise, should
know that these goods are manufactured in compliance with the
Code of Conduct. We will require our licensees to provide full
disclosure as expeditiously as possible under existing contracts and
as a condition of future contracts. Accordingly, we will advocate that
the task force move promptly to provide full public disclosure of
company names, production and manufacturing locations for licensed
products The Anti-Sweatshop Advisory Committee should make any
recommendations to achieve this objective in its report.
5.  Compensation Standards. We believe that, as a matter of human
rights and human dignity, workers engaged in the production of
licensed goods should receive wages that meet at least their basic
needs. This concept has been sometimes referred to as a "living
wage". In many instances, such a wage level would exceed the
minimum and/or prevailing wage. However, defining a wage level or
levels (across different countries and locations) presents significant
challenges: it is widely held that there is no current consensus on
these compensation  levels.  Nevertheless, we believe it is
fundamentally important to engage in that process to define wage
level(s) for workers engaged in the production of licensed apparel
that would meet at least their basic needs and be consistent with
human rights.
Accordingly, we will join in appropriate research studies with sister
institutions and governmental entities such as the United States
Labor Department and international groups and organizations, to
determine guidelines that could create appropriate wage standards.


245




March Meeting, 1999


Through these studies and in consultation with the Advisory
Committee, the University will work to identify a wage level(s) for
workers employed by our licensees consistent with human rights and
our University values. Based on that information, we will work to
implement a policy that will ensure that our licensees compensate
workers at a wage level(s) consistent with basic human rights and
dignity. Additionally, we will advocate that the task force, the
Apparel Industry Partnership's Fair Labor Association and other
national and international organizations explore this topic to
determine how and where the Code of Conduct might be modified to
reflect the payment of wage level(s) consistent with human rights.
6.  Women's Rights. The vast majority of workers making licensed
goods are women who may be vulnerable to exploitation or coercion.
We, therefore, will advocate that the Code of Conduct should
explicitly protect women with respect to equal pay, equal treatment
and equal rights, as well as ensure their reproductive health and
freedom during pregnancy and maternity leave. We will require our
licensees to ensure that women employees receive fair treatment and
are free from coercion or exploitation. The Advisory Committee
should consider this issue in its report.
President Bollinger announced that the action items from the regular
agenda would be considered first, followed by the consent agenda.
Audited Financial Reports for WUOM/WVGR/WFUM and
WFUM-TV for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1998
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted for approval audited financial
statements for the University's radio and television stations. Regent Newman
moved approval of the audited financial reports for WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM
and WFUM-TV for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1998. Regent White
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Remodeling of Fourth Floor Laboratories in the Chemistry Building
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that the estimated cost of this
project for remodeling of space in the Chemistry Building for construction of
new research laboratories and related facilities and equipment is up to
$1,200,000. He reported that the cost cannot be more accurately stated
because the type of construction being done is extremely delicate and unique
with respect to the surrounding spaces.
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Brandon, the
Regents unanimously approved the project as described in the Regents
Communication.
Appointment of Auditors for 1998-99
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that Ernst & Young had
served the University well as its auditors for the past twelve years. The
recommendation for the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP was
made following an announcement of requests for proposals and interviews
with several firms. He introduced Mr. Darrell Burks and Mr. Jack McCarthy
of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.


246




March Meeting, 1999


On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP as auditors for 1998-99.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Magnetic
Resonance Imaging Scanner Project
Executive Vice President Omenn presented a request for approval of the
design of the magnetic resonance imaging scanner addition to the East Ann
Arbor Health Center and for authorization to issue the project for bids and
award a construction contract.
Mr. Steve Whitney, of Albert Kahn Associates, Inc., presented
renderings of the existing facility and mammography unit with the proposed
MRI addition. He noted that it is designed for future expansion, and that
the addition will not have a negative impact on parking. President Bollinger
observed that this addition is consistent esthetically and functionally with
the rest of the Health Center.
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved the design of the magnetic resonance
imaging scanner addition to the East Ann Arbor Health Center as presented,
and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction
contract, providing the project remains within the project budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Emergency
Power Project
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and
Health Centers Emergency Power Project, as described in the Regents
Communication.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers: Industrial
Technology Institute Building
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted a recommendation for
purchase of the Industrial Technology Institute building at a price of $12.5
million, with up to an additional $1.0 million for the purchase of personal
property. The building would be used to relocate many of the administrative
functions currently located in the North Ingalls Building as well as relocation
and consolidation of the medical records functions into one primary location.
Executive Vice President Omenn observed that relocation of the
administrative functions from clinical and research areas of the Health
System to an outlying area will have a positive impact on patient care by
providing room for expansion of services.
Regent Maynard moved approval of the purchase of the Industrial
Technology Institute building and personal property at a total price of $13.5
million, subject to the negotiation of a satisfactory purchase agreement,
acceptable environmental reports and completion of due diligence. Regent
Newman seconded the motion. Regents McGowan, Brandon, and Newman
announced that they would abstain from voting due to conflicts of interest.


247




March Meeting, 1999


It was decided to delay consideration of this issue until it could be
determined whether a vote under these circumstances would be consistent
with the guidelines established in Roberts' Rules of Order.
Alternative Asset Investments
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved commitment of up to $10.0 million of the
Long Term Portfolio to Sequoia Capital Franchise Fund, L.P., pending a
favorable review of the legal documents by the Office of the General Counsel.
Committee to Consider Tobacco Investments
President Bollinger and Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the
Regents that a special committee is to be appointed to weigh the argument
for the University to divest itself of securities issued by tobacco companies
and to recommend whether any action would be appropriate. The committee
would consist of students, faculty, administration, and alumni.
Chrysler Center for Continuing Engineering Education
Auditorium Renovations
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved a project for renovating the Chrysler Center
for Continuing Engineering Education Auditorium, at an estimated cost of
$800,000.
S.T. Dana Building - School of Natural Resources & Environment
Phase II Renovation Project
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that this project is part of the
FY2000 Capital Outlay Request submitted to the state, and that the state
has authorized proceeding with planning for the project at an estimated cost
of approximately $15 million. Regent White moved approval of the Dana
Building - School of Natural Resources and Environment Phase II Renovation
Project, and authorization for the appointment of Quinn Evans/Architects in
association with William McDonough + Partners, Architects and Planners,
as described in the Regents Communication. Regent Newman seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Health Service Building - Remodeling of First Floor Treatment Center
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved a project for remodeling of 2,000 square feet
of space at the east end of the Health Service Building, as described in the
Regents Communication. Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that in
addition to providing services to students, the Health Service Building is a
designated M-Care primary provider site.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Bandwidth Solutions, Inc.
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Brandon, the
Regents unanimously approved a license agreement between the University


248




March Meeting, 1999


of Michigan and Bandwidth Solutions, Inc., for commercialization of several
related patented inventions developed and owned by the University of
Michigan.   Because Mohammed N. Islam      holds an equity interest in
Bandwidth Solutions, Inc., and is also a University of Michigan employee,
this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and
Bandwidth Solutions, Inc., a company in which Mohammed N. Islam
holds an equity interest.
2.  Contract terms:
The University of Michigan is to receive as up-front consideration for
the license common stock of Bandwidth Solutions, Inc. equal to five
percent (5%) of the fully diluted shares of the company determined
as of the closing of the Bandwidth Solutions, Inc. Series A preferred
financing, which closing already has taken place.
Royalties to the University of 1/2% of the Net Sales of Bandwidth
Solutions, Inc. and its affiliates.
Royalties of 30% on sublicense revenue.
Exclusive right to practice and commercialize the technology in the
field of optical communications devices and systems, subject to
certain rights reserved by the University to practice it for research
and educational purposes. The University retains its ownership
interests.
Minimum annual royalties of $5,000.00 for each of years 2001-2003;
$10,000.00 for years 2004 and 2005; and $25,000.00 for 2006 and
each year thereafter during the term of the agreement.
Term of the agreement is for the life of the patents.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of
University employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.  Mohammed Islam's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership
interest in Bandwidth Solutions, Inc. He has waived any personal
participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University
from the company.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and EP
MedSystems, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved an agreement between the University of
Michigan and EP MedSystems, Inc. (hereafter, "Company") for the funding
of clinical research. Because Janice Jenkins is both a University of Michigan
employee and an owner/employee of the Company, this agreement falls under
the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information
is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and EP
MedSystems, Inc.


249




March Meeting, 1999


2. Terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of
performance is one year at a total cost of $18,050.
3. Janice Jenkins' pecuniary interest arises from her status as an
owner/employee of EP MedSystems, Inc.
Reassignment Agreement between the University of Michigan
and Chen-Hsing Hsu, M.D.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved a reassignment agreement between the
University of Michigan and Chen-Hsing Hsu, M.D., regarding the invention
"New Phosphate Binding Agents for Renal Failure." Because Dr. Hsu is
both a University of Michigan employee and a party to the agreement, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the Agreement are the University of Michigan and
Chen-Hsing Hsu, M.D.
2.  Terms of the agreement include payment to the University on a
quarterly basis of 15% of the total consideration received by Dr. Hsu.
There will be no use of University facilities or services in further
development of the invention without appropriate approvals. The
agreement also includes standard terms approved by the Board of
Regents on July 16, 1987.
Regent Taylor arrived at the meeting at this point, at around 2:00 p.m.
Director of Public Safety and Security
Executive Vice President Kasdin announced that Mr. Leo Heatley,
director of public safety and security, was retiring from the University. He
noted that Mr. Heatley had come to the University of Michigan in 1979, and
had been instrumental in establishing the Department of Public Safety as a
separate police force. He thanked Director Heatley for his service to the
University. A round of applause followed.
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that Captain Jim Smiley,
currently associate director of public safety and security, would serve as
interim director of public safety and security until a new director is
identified. He noted that the search committee for the new director, chaired
by Professor Suellyn Scarnecchia, has begun its work.
New Degree Program for University of Michigan-Dearborn School
of Management ("Master of Science in Accounting")
Regent Newman moved approval of the "Master of Science in
Accounting" degree program for the University of Michigan-Dearborn School
of Management. Regent White seconded the motion. Regent Newman
commented that she was pleased with the new opportunities being provided
on the Dearborn campus for adults in the business community who are
returning to school.
The vote was then taken and the motion was approved unanimously.


250




March Meeting, 1999


New Degree Program for University of Michigan-Dearborn School
of Management ("Master of Science in Finance")
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the
Regents unanimously approved establishment of a "Master of Science in
Finance" degree program for the University of Michigan-Dearborn School of
Management.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers: Industrial
Technology Institute Building
Regent Taylor announced that in addition to Regents McGowan,
Brandon, and Newman, he would also need to abstain from voting on this
issue due to a conflict of interest.
Regent Horning moved approval of the purchase of the Industrial
Technology Institute building and personal property at a total price of $13.5
million, subject to the negotiation of a satisfactory purchase agreement,
acceptable reports, and completion of due diligence. Regent Maynard
seconded the motion. The vote was then taken, and the motion was
approved unanimously, with Regents Horning, Maynard, and White voting in
favor, and Regents Brandon, McGowan, Newman, and Taylor abstaining.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of
the meeting of February 18, 1999, as corrected.
Reports.     Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports of
Investment, Plant Extension, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action.
Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects Established for
February 1999. The Regents received the Faculty Governance Update and
the MSA Monthly Report.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted the Report of
Voluntary Support for February 1999.
Nelda Alger, Champaign, Illinois
3,313 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Underwood-Alger Scholarships in the School of Music
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... $ 151,123
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.................................................   77,327
American Foundation for Urological Disease, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School...................................... 5,667
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School, the Division of Kinesiology and
the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 218,543
American Institute of Chemical Engineers, New York, New York
for support in the College of Engineering................................. 8,000
American Trucking Associations, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for the TruckResearch Affiliates Program, Transportation Research Institute.... 15,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Residential College Multicultural Initiative Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................  10,001
Anonymous Donor
for the Ralph Moyer Endowed Dental Scholarship in the School
of D entistry.........................................................  25,000


251




March Meeting, 1999


Anonymous Donor
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund................................ 10,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in the School of Nursing.................................... 83,000
Joseph A. Aristeo, Livonia
for the Civil Engineering Alumni Friends Association Fellowship and
other support in the College of Engineering, and for support in the
Department of Athletics................................................ 8,000
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School...................................... 23,165
ASDA Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical.School................................ 75,000
Astra/Merck Group of Merck & Company, Wayne, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School.....................................  75,527
Atlantic Richfield Company, Los Angeles, California
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 20,000
William C. Bechtel, Royal Oak
for support in the Medical School....................................... 10,000
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
for the Drs. Jack L. and Barbara A. Berman Merit Scholarship and
other support in the Medical School...................................... 5,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
306 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for research in the College of Engineering and the Medical School........... 30,718
Maurice S. Binkow, Bloomfield Hills
175 shares of Automatic Data Processing common stock
for the Maurice and Linda Binkow Endowed Voice Scholarship in the
School of Music, for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, for
support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for
Camp Michigania, WFUM-TV and the University Musical Society........... 13,940
Biogen, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts
for research in the Medical School..................................... 10,000
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute, and for employee matching gifts..... 16,955
Philip M. Bourlan  Estate
for support in the Medical School......................................  133,514
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School........................................ 8,500
Richard R. Burns, Duluth, Minnesota
170 shares of Cisco Systems, Inc., common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for support of
the Law School................................................... 16,448
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Morrisville, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School...................................... 97,500
Rosalie K. Butzel, Seattle, Washington
60 shares of Fannie Mae and 15 shares of Raytheon common stock
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund................................. 5175
BYK Gulden Lomberg Chemische Fabrik GmbH, Konstanz, Germany
for research  in the Medical School......................................  12,477
Michael J. Callahan, Winnetka, Illinois
200 shares of Whirlpool Corporation common stock
for the Clare and Michael Callahan Dean's Fund in the School
of Business Administration, and for economics support in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 10,994
Calypte Biomedical Company, Berkeley, California
for research in the Medical School........................ 5,800
Canary Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  37,500
CaP Cure, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................ 100,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Institute for Social Research............................ 5,000
Clark MXR, Inc., Dexter
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 10,000
Comerica Bank, Detroit
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.... 15,000
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Group of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Dentistry, and for the Alumnae
Council Scholarship...................................................  15,000
252




March Meeting, 1999


James P. Conley, Ann Arbor
1,903 shares of Selected American Shares mutual fund for support
in  the Department of Athletics.........................................  59,300
Isabel H. Cosgrove Estate
for the Isabel H. and Norman Cosgrove Memorial Scholarship in
the School of Nursing................................................. 38,722
George H. Cress, Ann Arbor
330 shares of KeyCorp New common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,333
Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  19,750
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering,
and for the Corporate Minority and Women Scholarship at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn.......................................  25,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School and the Kresge Hearing Research Institute.... 10,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  10,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan, and
for employee  matching   gifts............................................  11,185
Peter F. de Vaux, Verona, Virginia
135 shares of Amoco Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 7,855
Clifford F. Dick Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 31,648
Timothy L. Dickinson, Washington, DC
160 shares of KeyCorp common stock
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,090
Dickinson Wright PLLC Counsellors at Law, Detroit
for the Henry M. Campbell Memorial Prize Fund in the Law School......... 10,000
Jean W. Dorsett-Robinson, Sullivans Island, South Carolina
80 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock
for the Jean Dorsett-Robinson Scholarship in the School of Public Health..... 11,980
Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn...................... 17,500
Stanley C. Duffendack, Hilton Head Island, South Carolina
1,000 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Duffendack Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the School of Nursing, the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 99,688
EDS, Plano, Texas
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute..................................  10,000
David A. Eklund, Ann Arbor
85 shares of Sealed Power Corporation common stock
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund................................. 5,241
Irving A. Fader, Farmington Hills
for the Lester Fader Memorial Endowment in the College of
Architecture and Urban Planning.......................................  12,500
Harriet E. Fay, Howell
for support in  the School of Nursing....................................  10,000
Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Residential College Fund, the Matthaei Botanical Gardens
Research Endowment and other support in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for other support at the University of Michigan.... 32,900
Donald D. Finlayson, Brimley
1,600 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Donald and Catherine Finlayson Donor Pooled Income Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Donald and Catherine Finlayson
Endowed Scholarship in the Medical School............................. 100,000
David A. Finn, Walled Lake
3,531 shares of Enterprise Small Company mutual funds and
1,478 shares of Enterprise International Growth mutual funds
for gifts pending  designation...........................................  54,859
Sidney Forbes, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............... 5,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............  7,500
253




March Meeting, 1999


Henry Ford II Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.... 62,500
Ford Motor Company Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering............................. 205,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration
and the College of Engineering, for the Ford Endowment for National
Pollution Prevention in the School of Natural Resources and Environment
for the Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center in the College of Engineering,
and the Ford Motor Company Fund Endowment in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for the Henry Ford Estate at Far Lane, the
Center for Engineering Education and Practice and other support at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn..................................... 1,110,000
C. Edward Frisinger, Santa Rosa, California
457 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for the C. Edward and Mary A. Frisinger Charitable Remainder Unitrust
Fund for the ultimate benefit of College of Engineering and the Medical School... 34,189
Benjamin F. Garmer III, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
2,263 shares of Biochem International, Inc., common stock
for the Foley & Lardner Fund in the Law School.......................... 13,578
General Electric Company Lighting, East Cleveland, Ohio
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Geometric Results, Inc., Escondido, California
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 14,700
Victor Ginsberg, Fort Lauderdale Florida
22,000 shares of Schering-Piough Corporation common stock
for the Frances and Victor Ginsberg Professorship in the Medical School... 1,179,063
Glaucoma Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  25,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Schools of Education and Public Health................ 223,463
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering,
and for employee matching gifts........................................ 10,300
Guidant Corporation-Cardiology Pacemakers, St. Paul, Minnesota
for research in  the Medical School.....................................  250,000
Mrs. John Whitney Hall, Tucson, Arizona
for the John Whitney Hall Book Award Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  40,000
Virginia H. Harlow, Naples, Florida
4,500 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Virginia H. Harlow Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School............................ 417,469
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  75,000
David G. Hartman, New Providence, New Jersey
962 shares of Chubb Corporation common stock
or the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  62,259
Henry Ford Health System, Dearborn
for the Hospital Administration Corporate Scholarship, School of Public Health.... 14,560
Hermelin Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the IrvingM. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment, University Library... 32,500
Hewlett-Packard Financial Services Center, Colorado Springs, Colorado
for research in the Institute for Research on Women and Gender............. 9,500
John W. Holmes, Irving, Texas
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............ 5,000
Curtis E. Huntington, Boston, Massachusetts
387 shares of CGM Capital Development Fund mutual fund for the
Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund and other support in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................... 10,234
David L. Huntoon, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Education....................................  5,300
Charles S. Hutchins, North Palm Beach, Florida
500 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering, and
for the Bentley Historical Library.............................      67,703
Instrumentation Laboratory, Ann Arbor
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...   25,000
254




March Meeting, 1999


Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering,
and for employee matching gifts........................................ 11,810
J. Richard Jamieson, Jr., Toledo, Ohio
for the Jamieson Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics......... 50,000
Louise Ganiard Johnson, Lebanon, New Hampshire
for support in the School of Music.................................   5,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Scholars in Health Policy Research Program, School of Public Health.... 347,875
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education.................................  188,141
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Max Kade German House Fund, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.......................................................... 6,000
Kapnick Foundation, Naples, Florida
for the Harvey Kapnick Accounting Workshop Series Fund in the
School of Business Administration......................................  90,000
Richard Katcher, Beachwood, Ohio
200 shares of Airtouch Communications, Inc., common stock
for the Katcher Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit
of the Richard and Shirley Katcher Scholarship in the Department of Athletics... 14,313
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek
for research in the Medical School, and for employee matching gifts.......... 30,160
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Public Health................................ 6,610
Cary H. Klein, Allison Park, Pennsylvania
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 15,000
Kathryn A. Klein, Allison Park, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,000
KPMG Peat Marwick Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
for support in the School of Education and for employee matching gifts........ 5,700
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  45,085
Norman J. Leven Family Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Marilyn and Norman Leven Scholarship, School of
Business Administration...............................................  5,000
Michael and Patricia Levine Philanthropic Fund, Ann Arbor
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering, and for
the University  Musical Society..........................................  5,500
Lucas Varity Automotive, Livonia
for the AMP Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............. 7,200
Robert P. Luciano, Madison, New Jersey
28,500 shares of Schering-Plough Corporation common stock
for the Robert and Barbara Luciano Professor of Law Endowment, Law School.. 1,606,688
David R. MacDonald, Bethesda, Maryland
for support of the  Law  School...........................................  5,000
Manitoba Foundation New York, New York
for research in the Medical School......................................  37,500
John V. Manuelian, Belmont, Massachusetts
for Armenian studies support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn,
in memory of Manuel Manuelian........................................  9,000
MascoTech, Inc., Fraser
for the Edward M. and Ruth B. Gramlich Fund, School of Public Policy....... 5,000
Helen Byrn May, McLean, Virginia
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
in memory of Dr. Donald C. May, Jr......................................  5,000
Charlotte McGeoch, Ann Arbor
85 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock
for the University Musical Society...................................... 13,781
Merck & Company, Inc., Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for support in the College of Engineering and the Medical School............. 7,000
Mid-America Arts Alliance, Kansas City, Missouri
for the University Musical Society....................................... 5,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.......... 7,500
Mobil Exploration & Producing Technical Center, Dallas, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in
Porous Media in the College of Engineering.............................. 20,000


255




March Meeting, 1999


Clarence D. Moll Trust
for research in the Medical School...................................... 27,519
Morris-Sweetland Living Trust
6,558 shares of Amerindo Technology Growth Fund mutual fund
for the Gayle Morris-Sweetland Writing Center in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................  300,000
Minnie L. Morrison Estate
for the Charles and Minnie Morrison Scholarship.......................... 7,890
Muscular Dystrophy Association, Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts................................................  106,531
Navistar International Transportation Corporation, Knoxville, Tennessee
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program, Transportation Research Institute.... 15,000
Newman Family Foundation, Southfield
for the Class of 1972 Medical School Fund in the Medical School............ 10,000
Paul L. Newman-Newman's Own, Westport, Connecticut
for the Wallenberg Medal and Lecture Fund in the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies..................................... 5,000
North American Lighting, Inc., Farmingon Hills
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.......... 7,500
Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  72,800
Harry and Olive O'Connell Management Trust
for the Harry O'Connell Graduate Fellowships, College of Engineering....... 10,742
Edward C. Olson, Fort Myers, Florida
925 shares of Citizen's Utilities common stock
for the Dr. Edward and Joan Olson Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Edward and Joan Olson Endowed
Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 7,834
Joan M. Olson, Fort Myers, Florida
900 shares of Citizen's Utilities common stock
for the Dr. Edward and Joan Olson Charitable Remainder Unitrust
Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Edward and Joan Olson Endowed
Scholarshipin the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 7,622
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  55,5 55
Donald R. or Ann V. Parfet Family Foundation, Richland
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts and for student aid and other support in
the Center for the Education of Women.................................. 15,600
Parke-Davis & Company, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Public Health................................ 16,667
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for research in the Medical School......................... 5,000
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration and the Colleges of
Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the Michigan
Leadershape Institute, and the Office of Career Planning and Placement.... 107,000
Jessie Ridley Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Services for Students with Disabilities Gift Fund.................. 10,000
Karlene L. Sabin Trust
150 shares of Fidelity Magellan Fund mutual fund
for support in the School of Nursing....................................  18,686
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the Center for Group Dynamics in the Institute for Social Research...... 100,157
Grace Sagendorf Trust
for support in the School of Education...................................  50,000
Carroll E. Sargent Estate
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................... 6,757
Albert G. and Olive H. Schlink Foundation, Norwalk, Ohio
for the Albert G. Schlink Endowment in the Institute of Gerontology........ 10,000
Schlumberger Dowell, Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous
Media in  the College of Engineering.....................................  25,000
Jeffrey B. Seller, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 28,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 10,000
256




March Meeting, 1999


SmithKline Beecham Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  75,000
Margaret Sokol, New York New York
for support in the College of Engineering................................  10,000
Linda G. Sprankle, Ann Arbor
50 shares of International Business Machines common stock
for the Virginia Wilson Physical Therapy Scholarship at the
University of Michigan-Flint............................................ 9,100
John C. Stegeman, Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund................................ 10,000
John F. Stone Trust
for the John F. Stone Research and Scholarship Fund, Medical School......... 8,825
Stephen A. Stone, Onset, Massachusetts
for the Academic Freedom Lecture Fund.................................  25,000
Rose L. Strasser Trust
for support in the School of Education, the College of Engineering
and the Alumni Association........................................   51,000
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the
Northern Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts for support
in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..................... 15,000
Michele T. Takei, Portola Valley, California
100 shares of Sun Microsystems, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,769
Donald A. Tomalia, Midland
for the support in the Medical School..................................... 5,000
Ruth L. Townsend, Farmington Hills
600 shares of Chestnut St. Exchange Fund mutual fund
for the Ruth Townsend Endowment in the School of Business Administration... 206,472
Susan B. Ullrich, Ann Arbor
290 shares of BMC Software, Inc., common stock
for the Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center in the College of Engineering.... 12,615
Roger Ulseth Estate
for undergraduate  student aid...........................................  6,052
University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah
for the Obert C. Tanner Lecturer in Philosophy Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 23,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for support in  the Medical School........................................  5,000
Roy E. and Carol W. Weber Charitable Lead Trust
for support in the Medical School................................. 7,808
Walter J. Weber, Jr., Ann Arbor
900 shares of 3 COM Corporation common stock
for the Walter J. Weber, Jr. and Linda M. Abriola-Weber Professorship
in  the  College of Engineering..........................................  31,669
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
or support in the School of Education and the College of Engineering......... 6,500
Paul G. Willoughby, Santa Clara, California
for support in the Department of Athletics................................ 5,000
Irma M. Wyman, St. Paul, Minnesota
150 shares of Honeywell, Inc., common stock
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education
of W om en...........................................................  10,031
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Arman A. Aznavorian, Goodrich
approximately 300 Armenian Language books for the University Library
Michael A. Aznavorian, Plymouth
approximately 300 Armenian Language books for the University Library
Mary Jane Blackburn, Ann Arbor
eight hundred books for the School of Education
John K. Dunn, Dearborn
art work for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Berkowitz Gallery
Flint Journal, Flint
an advertisement for the Africana studies department
General Electric Company, Southfield
four sheets of Lexan 9034 and 14 sheets of Protecta Glaze for the Solar Car Team
General Motors Corporation, R & D Center, Warren
a glove box for the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department


257




March Meeting, 1999


Ruth A. Gross, Tucson, Arizona
coin sets for the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
William A. Morgan, New York, New York
fourteen boxes of manuscripts, correspondence, photos and other items documenting
the career of Zoya Leporska for the Special Collections Library
Gary M. Perlman, Sands Point, New York
an Adam Stone painting of Glen Rice and Rumel Robinson for the Department of
Athletics
Eric Quist, Ann Arbor
several volumes of printed items relating to materials for the materials science and
engineering department
John Reznikoff, Stamford, Connecticut
a collection of letters, documents and other papers of Captain Jonas P. Levy for the
Clements Library
Louis C. Saalbach, Ann Arbor
approximately 300 Armenian Language Books for the University Library
Alice A. Simsar, Ann Arbor
approximately 300 Armenian Language Books for the University Library
Gregory Sobran, Ann Arbor
a framed watercolor for the Comprehensive Cancer Center
SPS Technologies, Salt Lake City, Utah
titanium fasteners for the Solar Car Team
David J. Steinberg, Old Westbury, New York
One thousand one hundred items of memorabilia concerning the Philippines for the
University Library
Hung-Jue Sue, College Station, Texas
an oil and acrylic painting entitled, "Lake Reflections" by Chunag Che for the College
of Engineering
George H. weney    attle, e e, Washington
a collection of 135 books for the Clements Library
Clarence Wolf, Gladwyne, Pennsylvania
a collection of art works in various media for the Clements Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors
Lawrence S. Bartell, Ann Arbor         Metalmite Corporation, Rochester
Lawrence I. Berkove, Southfield        Research on Armenian Architecture,
Nancy S. Drew, Niles                      - Los Angeles, California
Mary Margaret Early, Dearborn          Stephen A. Resnick, Cazenovia, New York
Bruce W. Frier, Ann Arbor              Joseph Rife, Ann Arbor
Anaruth Gordon, Ann Arbor              Square D Company, Troy
J. Michael Hagopian, Thousand Oaks,    Davd Stabley, Bloomsburg, Pennsylvania
California                        Eulalia M. Stewart, Ann Arbor
HBD Industries, Chanute, Kansas        Stuart L. Thayer, Seattle, Washington
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor               Robert 0. Wefald, Bismarck, North Dakota
Julie Langensiepen, Beverly Hills      Louanna J. Williams, Southfield
Mark McCoy, South Lyon
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted recommendations for a
number of personnel actions. She called attention to recommendations for
three appointments to distinguished university professorships, and to the
appointment of Fawwaz Ulaby as vice president for research.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Blum, Joel D., Ph.D., John D. MacArthur Professor of Geological Sciences, five year term,
and Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Fierke, Carol A., Ph.D., Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Meezan, William A., Ph.D., Marion Elizabeth Blue Professor of Children and Families, five
year term, and Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work


258




March Meeting, 1999


Vedejs, Edwin, Ph.D., Moses Gomberg Collegiate Professor of Chemistry, five year term, and
Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1, 1999
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Edwards, Paul N., Associate Professor of Information Studies, without tenure, Residential
College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 1999
Zink, Brian J., Assistant Dean for Medical Student Career Development, Medical School,
April 1, 1999
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing Professorships
Donald C. Graham Professorship in Engineering, College of Engineering, April 1, 1999
Frances and Victor Ginsberg Professorship in Hematology/Oncology, Medical School, five
year renewable term, April 1, 1999
Moses Gomberg Collegiate Professorship in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, five year renewable term, January 1, 1999
Claude E. Shannon Professorship in Engineering Science, College of Engineering, April 1, 1999
Change in Name of Professorship
Leonard J. Savage Collegiate Professorship in Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1999 (previously known as the Leonard J. Savage Professorship
in Statistics)
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective September 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Appointments to Professorships
Akil, Huda, Gardner C. Quarton Distinguished University Professor of Neurosciences
Cho, Kyung J., William Martel Collegiate Professor of Radiology, five year term, April 1, 1999
Smith, Edward E., Arthur W. Melton Distinguished University Professor of Psychology
Ulaby, Fawwaz T., from Interim Vice President for Research to Vice President for Research,
Office of the Provost, March 19, 1999
Verrett, Shirley, James Earl Jones Distinguished University Professor of Music, School of Music
Reappointment to Professorship
Woodroofe, Michael B., Leonard J. Savage Collegiate Professor of Statistics, five year term
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Johnson, Ethan S., student representative, retroactive from February 3-June 30, 1999, vice
Danielle F. Daniels, resigned
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Forman, Robert G., alumni representative, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001, vice Sally B. Roach,
term expired
School of Public Health Executive Committee
Jeffrey A. Alexander, retroactive from January 1, 1999-August 31, 2001, vice Betsy Foxman,
resigned


259




March Meeting, 1999


UM-Flint Channel 28 Community Advisory Board
Thum, Maureen D., June 1, 1999-May 31, 2001, new faculty appointment
Personnel reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1-April 30, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Cavender, George D., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, February 1, 1999-January 31, 2000
Chandra, Charu, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems
Engineering, UM-Dearborn School of Engineering, January 1, 1999-April 30, 2001
Crow, Jonathan C., M.A., Lecturer I in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Honeycutt, Karen S., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Kaferle, Joyce E., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School,
February 1, 1999-July 31, 2000
Li, Chen, B.A., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Morgan, Myra B., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, January 15, 1999 -January 14, 2001
Phillips, Ann T., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Singh, Pashaura, Ph.D., Lecturer III in Sikh Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1, 1999-December 31, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Chamberlain, Kenneth R., from Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry,
February 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Dysko, Robert C., from Assistant Professor of Laboratory Animal Medicine to Clinical
Associate Professor II of Laboratory Animal Medicine, February 1, 1999-January 31, 2000
English, Susan L., from Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
to Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering, January 1-April 30, 1999
Goldstein, Irwin J., from Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, and Associate Dean
for Research and Graduate Studies to Professor of Biological Studies, Medical School,
January 1, 1999
Leicher, Sheryl J., Lecturer II in Technical Communication, College of Engineering,
January 1-April 30, 1999
McCracken, Gail K., from Assistant Professor of Business Law to Lecturer in Business Law,
UM-Dearborn School of Management, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2001
Porter, David L., Assistant Professor of Comparative Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Sagher, Oren, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, November 1, 1998-October 31, 1999
Schappe, Robert H., from Assistant Professor of Human Resource Management to Lecturer
in Human Resource Management, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
September 1, 1999-April 30, 2001
Suarez, Lucia M., from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Spanish, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1, 1999-May 31, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Akcasu, Ziyaeddin A., Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Macromolecular
Science and Engineering, College of Engineering, January 1-April 30, 1999


260




March Meeting, 1999


Keller, Robert B., Associate Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, College of
Engineering, May 1-December 31, 1999
Pastalan, Leon A., Professor Emeritus of Architecture, College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Wright, John W., Associate Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 1999
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Amidei, Dante E., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Fakhouri, Hani I., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, retirement furlough (phased), January 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Goldberg, Jack L., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts retirement furlough (phased), January 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Greden, John F., Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, Rachel Upjohn Professor, and Chair,
Department of Psychiatry, Medical School, sabbatical leave, February 15-May 15, 1999,
and September 1-December 1, 1999
Jourdian, George W., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Biological
Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 1999
Lau, Yue L., Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Miller, Josef M., Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, and Lynn and Ruth
Townsend Professor of Communication Disorders, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 18, 1998
Perfecto, Ivette, Associate Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, with tenure,
School of Natural Resources and Environment, duty off campus, February 2-March 19, 1999
Shih, Chung-Tuo, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999, and
retirement furlough, September 1-December 31, 1999
Suarez, Lucia M., Assistant Professor of Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
CORRECTIONS TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Lubeck, Sally A., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1999 (previously reported as January 1-December 31, 1999
Roubidoux, Marilyn A., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School,
sabbatical leave, January 1-31, 1999 and March 1-April 30, 1999 (previously reported as
January 1-March 31, 1999
Lewis, Edith A., Associate Professor of Social Work and Women's Studies, with tenure,
School of Social Work, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1998 and extended
sick leave, January 22-May 31, 1999 (previously reported as sabbatical leave
September 1, 1998-May 31, 1999)
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Bellows, John, Lecturer in Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, December 31, 1998
MacKenzie, Ian C., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, January 29, 1999
Marx, Mary V., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, February 12, 1999
Nair, Sankar A., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, March 1, 1999
Presley, John W., Professor of Humanities, with tenure, and Dean, UM-Dearborn College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, February 28, 1999


261




March Meeting, 1999


Retired
Noble, Richard S., Lecturer II in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 1999
Wolowitz, Howard M., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, December 31, 1998
Term Completed
Davis, James A., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1998
Graham, Christa M., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1998
Levin, Daniel S., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 1998
Maienhofer, Dirk R., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1998
Martino, Christopher J., Lecturer in Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering,
April 30, 1998
Roberts-Atwater, Beverly, Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
Medical School, December 31, 1998
Retirement Memoirs. Two retirement memoirs were submitted for
adoption.
Choo W. Suh, senior associate librarian, University Library, retired on
December 31, 1998, following 35 years of dedicated service.
Ms. Suh received her B.A. degree in 1958 from Randolph-Macon
Woman's College and her A.M. and A.M.L.S. degrees in 1959 and 1962,
respectively, from the University of Michigan. She served a year as a
reference librarian at the University of Kansas and in 1963 joined the staff of
the University of Michigan Library as the Japanese language cataloger in the
Asia Library.
Her long career coincided with the fast-paced development of the Asia
Library. As she assumed greater professional and managerial responsibilities,
she was promoted to senior Japanese-Korean cataloger (1963), coordinator of
technical services in the Asia Library (1984), and head of the Asia Library
Technical Services (1993). She has been a member of the Cataloging Policy
Council since 1984 and served on the MIRLYN Specs Committee in 1989,
MIRLYN Screen Display Task Force in 1991, and the Public Services
MIRLYN Committee from 1990-93.
Since 1983, Ms. Suh has been the Chinese-Japanese-Korean liaison to the
Research Libraries Group ("RLIN CJK"). Since 1990, she has served as the
RLIN CJK instructor and conducted training sessions for the Library of
Congress, the British Columbia University Library, the University of
Washington Law Library, the UCLA Asian Library, and the Harvard
Yenching Library. She was responsible for creating immaculate records for
the numerous early xylographic works in the Japanese collections and for the
comprehensive review and enhancement of 200,000 vendor-converted records.
As a result of the latter project, which lasted from 1992-1994, Michigan's
East Asian collection became the first major collection to become completely
remote-accessible. Since 1995, she has also been providing information and
bibliographical services for the faculty and students in Korean Studies.
Ms. Suh will be remembered not only for her uncompromising
professionalism and untiring enthusiasm for teaching, but also for the high


262




March Meeting, 1999


level of expertise and rich experience that have enhanced the bibliographical
organization of the University of Michigan Library.
The Regents salute this librarian by naming Choo W. Suh senior
associate librarian emerita.
Howard M. Wolowitz, Ph.D., professor of psychology, retired from
active faculty status on December 31, 1998, following a 37-year career as
researcher, teacher, and clinical supervisor.
After receiving his B.A. degree from City College of New York in 1954,
Professor Wolowitz came to the University of Michigan, where he received
two M.A. degrees (in sociology in 1956 and psychology in 1959) and a Ph.D.
degree in clinical psychology in 1961. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty in 1961 as an instructor in psychology and a psychologist at the
Psychological Clinic. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1963,
associate professor in 1968, and professor in 1972. Professor Wolowitz has
also been a visiting faculty member at New York University and a consultant
to Veterans Administration Medical Centers in New York, Allen Park, and
Ann Arbor.
Throughout his career, Professor Wolowitz has had a sustained interest
in psychoanalytic theory and its empirical test. His research contributions
ranged through a variety of clinical syndromes as well. His research on
dreams is particularly well-known and is cited as an example of how complex
intrapsychic theories can be investigated in ways both methodologically
rigorous and clinically relevant. Professor Wolowitz has focused on dreams
and their psychological function, and his work goes beyond Freud's original
formulation of dreams as wish fulfillment to consider the role of dreams in
problem solving. As such, Professor Wolowitz's work helped change
psychodynamic conceptions of the ego as merely reactive to a view of the ego
as proactive and creative. Professor Wolowitz's papers have been published in
a variety of psychology and psychiatry journals, and he has just finished a
book summarizing his work on dreams.
A dedicated and charismatic teacher, Professor Wolowitz introduced
several generations of Michigan students to psychodynamic thinking. His
course on dreams was especially popular and always over-subscribed.
The Regents now salute this distinguished psychologist by naming
Howard M. Wolowitz professor emeritus of psychology.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported to the
Regents this month.
Degrees. Provost Cantor submitted for approval the final degree list
for the December 1998 Law School Commencement.
Honorary Degrees. President Bollinger submitted the following
recommendations for recipients of honorary degrees: Kofi Annan, Secretary
General of the United Nations; Aharon Barak, Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court of Israel; Shirley M. Malcolm, director for education and human
resources of the American Association for the Advancement of Science; and
Pramoedya Ananta Toer, Indonesian author.
Consent Agenda approved. On a motion by Regent White, seconded
by Regent Horning, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.


263




March Meeting, 1999


There followed a ten minute break, beginning at 2:20 p.m.
Michigan Greats
The meeting reconvened at 2:30 p.m. Vice President Ulaby gave a
presentation highlighting the career and accomplishments of Jessye Norman,
University of Michigan alumna and world renown soprano.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Brian Reich, student, thanking the
Regents for the recently approved amendment process for the Code of
Student Conduct; and Veronica Reyna, student, thanking the University
community for its support and Provost Cantor for her commitment during
the recently concluded bargaining process that culminated in a tentative
contract agreement between the Graduate Employees Organization (GEO)
and the University.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 3:50 p.m.
The next meeting is scheduled for April 15-16, 1999.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and
Secretary of the University


264




APRIL MEETING, 1999


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, April 15, 1999
The Regents convened at 1:40 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Horning, Maynard, McGowan,
Newman, Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice
President Feagin, Vice President Hartford, Executive Vice President Kasdin,
Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Executive Vice President
Omenn, Interim Chancellor Schmoll, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco,
Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regent Deitch arrived
shortly after the start of the meeting.  Chancellor Renick was absent;
Provost Simpson attended in his place.
Life Sciences for the 21st Century
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and announced that the
afternoon would be devoted to providing information on the life sciences in a
context in which no voting would be expected or required. He noted that
months of effort have been devoted to determining how the University can
become preeminent in this area.
He introduced Professor Huda Akil, Gardner Quarton Professor of
Neurosciences, professor of psychiatry, and co-director and senior research
scientist at the Mental Health Research Institute. Professor Akil served as
co-chair of the Life Sciences Commission.
Professor Akil acknowledged the contributions of the entire Life
Sciences Commission.  She said that her presentation would provide
background about what life sciences is about, where the discipline stands
currently, and why this is a timely moment in the history and further
development of the life sciences.
Professor Akil described the fundamental aspects of biology.  She
observed that the central question of biology is how all forms of life can start
with the same common material -- DNA -- and then diversify into very
different life forms. She noted that the goal of the Human Genome Project is
to determine the sequence of every gene on all of the chromosomes of the
human body. Once this task has been accomplished, scientists will try to
determine the functions of specific genes, including how cells, tissues, and
organs are formed using the codes found in the genes. This focus has many
applications in the study of mechanisms and treatment of human diseases,
and this work is extremely collaborative, requiring an interplay among many
different disciplinary approaches.
She described how each of the five initiatives identified by the Life
Sciences Commission would be relevant in this endeavor, using the example
of her own research in the area of neurosciences and depression. Professor
Akil concluded by observing that this is an exciting time in the life sciences


265




April Meeting, 1999


because the Human Genome Project is yielding more information than has
ever been known before. Therefore, questions can be asked in ways that
were not possible before the discoveries of the last several years. The
answers to these questions are likely to be very complex, and intellectual and
practical ways need to be found to obtain new information and integrate new
findings, so that life sciences will continue to contribute to the public good.
Professor Akil then introduced John Holland, professor of electrical
engineering and computer science, professor of psychology, and member of
the Life Sciences Commission, to discuss biological complexity, a major
theme of the initiative.
Professor Holland noted that the immune system contains "agents,"
called antibodies, whose function is to handle "invaders," or antigens. He
defined the term "identity" as referring to the system's ability to identify the
set of proteins unique to each individual. The way the system learns how to
identify the antigens is related to genetics. Professor Holland also noted that
within a two-year interval, all of the atoms in the body change. This is one
reason that the immune system is so very difficult to understand, in the
same way that ecosystems, which are also constantly changing, are difficult
to understand.
All systems, he noted, exhibit "lever points" that can be activated by
external agents like vaccines, and which with a small effort or amount, are
capable of having a big effect. Until now, lever points have been discovered
by trial and error, because there has been no principled way of searching for
them. Theories in complexity are thought to provide a principled way of
looking for lever points in the immune system.
Professor Holland observed that there is a large market value in the
study of complexity, citing the example of the Santa Fe Institute, an institute
with a small budget that is able to attract large sums of money from leading
corporations. He concluded that the University of Michigan is uniquely
placed to participate in this important area.
Professor Holland then introduced Jack Dixon, Minor J. Coon Professor
of Biological Chemistry, chair of the Department of Biological Chemistry,
and member of the Life Sciences Commission. Professor Dixon said that the
Life Sciences Initiative is the most exciting thing to have happened at the
University of Michigan during his tenure at the institution. He observed
that we are on the brink of a revolution in scientific discovery, due to the fact
that the sequence of the entire human genome will have been mapped within
a few years, providing a blueprint to the makeup of the human body. There
will also be blueprints for other organisms, such as those that cause disease,
and these will enable scientists to attack diseases in ways that are currently
unheard of. Developments like these have created great excitement among
members of the Life Sciences Commission, and faculty at the University of
Michigan are eager to participate in these new areas of discovery.
Professor Dixon reported that in the course of its work, the Life Sciences
Commission discovered that other institutions have also recognized the need
for moving ahead in this area. He noted that the April 2 edition of Science


266




April Meeting, 1999


was dedicated to complexity and had an article describing where other
institutions are in their life science initiatives. Institutions such as Stanford,
Berkeley, Harvard, Princeton, California Institute of Technology, and others
are all engaged in major initiatives designed to capitalize on the revolution
that is occurring in the life sciences. The article states that to fully exploit
this new information will require the collective skills of chemists, physicists,
biologists, and engineers. It will not be possible for one isolated scientist to
accomplish major breakthroughs.
He noted that the University of Michigan's initiative is meant to be an
interdisciplinary, crosscutting initiative that will intersect LS&A, the health
science schools, and the College of Engineering. He gave examples of the
positive effects it will have on the education of students, advances in health
care, and in biotechnology. He noted that faculty are beginning to put some
of the infrastructure into place by developing new programs to support
efforts in the life sciences initiative.
Professor Dixon encouraged the Regents to support a life sciences
initiative, noting that the University would have major competition from
other institutions.
The presenters then responded to questions from the Regents.
In response to a question from Regent Horning about the role of the
Van Andel Institute in Grand Rapids, Professor Dixon observed that he was
on the selection committee that had identified George VandeWoude as the
institute's director. He noted that the Van Andel Institute would focus on
genetics, would have a staff of about 20 scientists, and that although there
would be a strong interaction between the University and the Institute, there
would be no overlap in the work of the two entities.
Responding to a question from Regent Maynard, Professor Akil noted
that there would be a lot of collaboration, both among departments within
the University and among different universities. She emphasized that what
is important is for the University to be a player; this will require a great deal
of effort because it involves "big science."
Regent Deitch inquired about the implications for the University if it
decides not to make a commitment to this effort. Professor Dixon responded
that the University of Michigan has a number of terrific scientists. Nationally,
however, there are not enough scientists who are working at these high levels
and those at Michigan are prime candidates for recruitment to other
university sites. If the University does not make a commitment to this
endeavor, the University's best scientists will be recruited by other
institutions to exploit their initiatives in the life sciences and they will leave.
Professor Holland concurred that the University is uniquely situated not
only to be a player, but a leader in this endeavor, and that if it fails to act
soon, the people who give it that advantage will leave. Among the factors
that make it a leader in this area are its status as the only university that
has an ongoing, reciprocal relationship with the Santa Fe Institute, which is
a leader in the study of complexity. It also has recently started the first
"named" educational program in complexity.
267




April Meeting, 1999


Professor Akil pointed out that the University of Michigan is unique in
that it has on one campus both the human and physical resources necessary
to embark on this endeavor, with specialties in many different disciplines, as
well as major pharmaceutical companies located in the region. Having the
resources, the intellectual atmosphere, and access to areas and people and
expertise that may not be readily accessible on the same campus at
competing institutions are important factors in retaining faculty.
President Bollinger raised the issue of why the University should choose
to focus on life sciences rather than some other area.  Professor Akil
observed that although the focus of life sciences is biological, it is a field that
influences many other areas, such as psychology and law, that might not
typically be thought of as being connected with it. She also emphasized that
it is important to note that the life sciences initiative will only work well in
the context of a university that is strong in all respects.
Provost Cantor next addressed the issue of how a life sciences initiative
will affect students' educational experience. She noted that as a great public
research university, the University has a responsibility to translate the value
of research expertise for its students, particularly for undergraduate
students. She observed that there is already a core set of undergraduate
student interest, as demonstrated by the fact that a significant fraction of
entering students consider themselves to be pre-med majors, and 20 percent
of the graduating class chooses a major in one of the core life sciences areas.
These students will benefit greatly from enhanced engagement with the
interdisciplinary subject areas represented by the life sciences initiative. In
addition, she observed that, "broadly defined, the life sciences have become a
literacy test for a modern education," and therefore it is important for all
liberal arts majors to have some exposure to life sciences areas. Science
should be a core component of the University's educational programs.
Other advantages of this initiative are that it will provide students with
a means of thinking collaboratively with others who are outside of their
disciplinary areas.  It would provide additional opportunities for theme
semesters, for living/learning communities, and for direct student participation
in research laboratories such as occurs in the Undergraduate Research
Opportunity Program. The Life Science Initiative will encourage the vertical
integration of undergraduate and graduate students, postdoctoral scholars,
and junior and senior faculty. Once a life sciences initiative is in place, she
observed, it will be impossible not to expand the integration of research and
education, because it is at the heart of this enterprise.
Finally, Provost Cantor emphasized that this initiative would also allow
the University to expose undergraduate students to the intersection of
intellectual discovery and technology, which is at the core of a good curriculum
and a modem     education.  Students' knowledge of technology will be
"completely intertwined with how they think about the world." In conclusion,
she noted that diversity of perspectives, collaboration, and information
technology, the three major elements necessary to provide the best education
for students, are all woven into the fabric of a life sciences initiative.


268




April Meeting, 1999


Executive Vice President Omenn reported on implications of the Life
Sciences Initiative for the Health System and academic medicine. He noted
that the five initiatives within the overall initiative are "intimately
interrelated" under the central theme of the complexity of living systems,
and observed that the University of Michigan has a breadth of resources that
no other institution can match. Executive Vice President Omenn outlined
the essential elements of an initiative that would have a campus-wide
impact: creation of institutes or centers to house and administer the
initiatives; creation of new research facilities; vigorous recruiting efforts;
enhancement of existing academic programs and departments; expanded
research cores; a strengthened technology transfer infrastructure; creation of
novel educational programs; establishment of a Center for Bioinformatics to
begin to deal with the flood of data resulting from the Human Genome
Project; appointment of a Bioethics Scholarship Council; and the launching
of "Michigan Workshops" to highlight the work being done here.
Specific benefits for the Medical School and the Health System include
the increased intellectual and physical contiguity of the Medical School and
other nearby units; an opportunity to strengthen the basic sciences; a major
increase in research space and faculty recruitment; and high expectations for
translation to clinical applications from basic biology, bioinformatics, and
bioengineering.
Next, Vice President Ulaby addressed the issue of funding support for
the life sciences. He noted that in 1998 life sciences accounted for about 45.5
percent of the University's research expenditures, both by source of funds
and field of study, and pointed out that federal funding in the life sciences is
expected to double over the next 6-7 years. Vice President Ulaby observed
that multidisciplinary centers and institutes will enjoy a decided advantage
in winning major support from federal agencies.
Commenting on the proposed creation of a scientific research corridor
within the state, Vice President Ulaby noted that President Bollinger and
the presidents of Wayne State and Michigan State universities had begun
meeting several months ago to identify ways for the three institutions to
cooperate on research initiatives, and had decided to focus on the field of life
sciences. They have made a proposal to the governor that $50 million of the
state's income from the tobacco settlement be used for these initiatives, with
half to be shared among the three schools and the other half to be awarded
competitively for work at the three schools and the Van Andel Institute. The
three universities have identified five areas of common interest, three of
which relate to the life sciences initiative. Committees consisting of faculty
from each of the three schools will be formed covering each of the five areas.
A consulting firm has indicated that there is a high potential for the
development of biotechnology spin-off firms in the Ann Arbor area.
Vice President Wilbanks spoke on the public environment and
receptivity for life sciences issues, both within the state and across the
country. She noted that public support for these issues began galvanizing 30
years ago with the war on cancer, but since then advocacy has been largely
ad hoc and fractured. General budgetary constraints in the early 1990s led


269




April Meeting, 1999


to a concern about the future of federal support for research, and that
uncertainty led to the beginning of a national dialog about the benefits to all
citizens from prudent investments in research. The Science Coalition, whose
membership includes major research universities, has been working for the
past four years to sustain federal funding for university-based science
research. In 1998 Michigan Congressional Representative Vern Ehlers
completed a Congressional study that addressed the challenges inherent in
establishing a new national science policy for the post Cold War period. This
report was endorsed by the-U.S. House of Representatives in the fall of 1998,
at which time the Senate also endorsed a bill to promote federal investments
in research and development. Last year, the U.S. Congress voted to increase
funding to the National Institutes of Health by 15 percent, or about $2
billion.
Vice President Wilbanks observed that within the state, there is a new
interest in technology-based economic development, government-university
partnerships, and ways in which those relationships can enhance the
economic and educational well-being of the state's citizens. She noted that
the state of Michigan, in close collaboration with the major research
universities and the private sector, is taking an active interest in the
technology transfer capabilities of universities.
Vice President Wilbanks concluded that public opinion surveys continue
to show strong support for health research and education. Thus, positioning
the University to take advantage of federal and state opportunities to
advance the life sciences appears to be well timed.
Vice President Feagin addressed the issue of fundraising, noting that
the University is already raising funds in the life sciences. She reported that
she is working to determine how much money can be raised over the next
few years. She observed that raising money in the life sciences is not easily
done because potential donors who do not have scientific backgrounds are
often intimidated by trying to understand the field.
The challenge at the University of Michigan is to determine the strategy
that will work at this institution. Vice President Feagin noted that continual
emphasis on the importance of private giving is very much needed, and that
it be presented to donors as a very high institutional priority. A means also
has to be devised to convey the excitement of the faculty in these endeavors
and in the practical consequences of this research. Finally, she noted that
the University also must make it clear that support of the life sciences is not
the only institutional priority for which private donations are being sought,
and that there are other important needs.
Following a ten-minute recess, the meeting reconvened at 4:05 p.m. for
Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Andrew Lehto, Elizabeth Barr, and
Shanta Jambotkar, students and organizers of the New Student Housing
Action Coalition, about the need for new student housing facilities on the
Ann Arbor campus.
270




April Meeting, 1999


Life Sciences Discussion
Following Public Comments, the president called for discussion of the
presentation on the Life Sciences Initiative.
Regent Taylor commented that the presenters had done a "terrific job"
of making a complex subject understandable and exciting. He said that the
challenge will lie in determining how to communicate it to the public and
market it to various audiences.
Regent Maynard observed that although private giving is important, this
is too big of an issue to not also have support from the public sector.
Executive Vice President Omenn responded that he is part of a national
group requesting increased funding from federal sources for construction,
renovation, equipment, additional salary, and other support.
Regent Deitch observed that "this is perhaps the most exciting thing
that has come to this table in my more than six years on the Board." He
complimented President Bollinger on bringing this proposal forward. He
noted that early in his tenure, the Regents had asked President Bollinger to
think deeply about the future direction of the University and to associate
himself with brilliant scholars. This project is a major result of that process.
He expressed the belief that in undertaking this initiative, the University
stands on the brink of a very important frontier; it is "an extraordinarily
exciting and important event for the University and for the people of
Michigan." We must be creative and energetic in seeking funding, Regent
Deitch said, because "this has to happen." In order to be a great university,
he observed that "you have to be at the cutting edge of scholarship and
research and to be able to attract the best minds in the world and give them
a conducive atmosphere in which to work." He believes that this project will
accomplish these goals.
Regent Newman enumerated some questions that she hopes will be
addressed regarding the practical realities and financial aspects of the
proposal, including:
*   how research dollars could be allocated among the schools;
*   the impact of an institute on fundraising for other units and the
impact on sources of funding for ongoing expenses and tuition;
*   the role of outside pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in
the initiative;
*   the impact of the initiative on the Dearborn and Flint campuses and
their roles in the project; and
*   the direct benefits to the state and the type of state funding that will
be sought in the years to come.
President Bollinger observed that the specific proposals to be presented
at the May Regents' meeting should address most of the issues raised by
Regent Newman.
Regent McGowan noted that the life sciences initiative represents a
"signature moment" for the University, and said she was particularly drawn


271




April Meeting, 1999


to the provost's characterization that it will strengthen the University's
ability to provide a modem education to its students.
Regent Horing expressed enthusiastic support for the project. Noting
that he shared some of Regent Newman's concerns, he believes that these
can be addressed and that it is important that the University of Michigan
move forward and undertake this project.
Regent Taylor posed the question of whether the University would still
be considered one of the great universities fifteen years from now if it does
not undertake this project. President Bollinger responded that it would not,
as it would not be able to offer students the quality of education they need.
It was noted that interest in and study of the life sciences are broadly
distributed across the University, including the College of Engineering, which
has a number of projects currently underway that are directly related to life
sciences. Professor Holland emphasized that funding is readily available for
cross-disciplinary studies in this area, and it is a question of being in a position
to take advantage of it. Professor George Kling, another member of the Life
Sciences Commission, also pointed out that the University of Michigan is the
only institution that has biocomplexity among its foci, encompassing
environmental studies as well as life sciences, as themes. The University is
therefore uniquely positioned to take advantage of new federal funding that
has recently been made available in these areas.
Regent Brandon expressed his belief that it is extremely important in
developing an enterprise such as this to articulate a vision and build a case
for change, and that this has been done very successfully. He indicated that
it is now time to move on to the next step, with the challenge being to
articulate the end result of the project -- that is, what it will look like when
we are successful.
Regent White observed that "it is a dream come true" for her that this
region of the country will be embarking on so monumental a project. She
pointed out that there are two aspects of the initiative: the academic aspect,
which requires the University to be on the cutting edge of research and
education; and the technology development aspect, which has the potential
to help transform the state's economy and move it away from its traditional
reliance on the automobile industry.
President Bollinger observed that this will be a multi-year project that
will take about five years to become fully operational. At the May meeting
more specific proposals will be presented.
Regent Maynard said that given the relative urgency of moving ahead, it
would be helpful if proposals could be developed early enough to have
adequate time for questions to be addressed. Regent Taylor suggested that it
might also be helpful to outline the overall goals of the project in a format
similar to that of a corporate strategic plan, including a vision of the end
result.
The meeting recessed at 4:55 p.m. until the following day.


272




April Meeting, 1999


Friday, April 16, 1999
The Regents convened at 9:45 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Horning, Maynard, McGowan,
Newman, Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice
President Feagin, Vice President Hartford, Executive Vice President Kasdin,
Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Executive Vice President
Omenn, Chancellor Renick, Interim Chancellor Schmoll, Vice President and
Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Regent Deitch was absent.
Motion to Meet in Executive Session
Regent White made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202 and 1996 PA 464, I move that the Board of Regents meet
in closed session on April 16, 1999, in the Regents' Room, for the
purpose of consulting with our attorney regarding trial or settlement
strategy in connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting then continued in executive session.
The meeting reconvened at 10:00 a.m. and began consideration of the
regular business agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President and Secretary Tedesco submitted the minutes
of the March 18, 1999 meeting.
Reports.   Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports of
Investment, Plant Extension, and the Regents Report on Non-Competitive
Purchases over $5000 from Single Sources for January 1 - March 31, 1999.
Vice President and General Counsel Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects Established during
March 1999.
University of Michigan Health System Report. Executive Vice
President Omenn distributed "Pocket Profiles" for the University of
Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) and Data Reference Cards
for the Medical School. The documents provided information on a number of
items, including financial and other indices related to the status of UMHHC
through the second quarter of Fiscal Year 1999. Executive Vice President
Omenn also reported on a number of noteworthy issues related to the health
system.
Student Affairs Report. Vice President Hartford observed that the
winter term would be ending next week and that this, combined with
preparation for final exams and commencement create a busy time for students.


273




April Meeting, 1999


Dearborn Campus Report. Chancellor Renick commented that he
was looking forward to welcoming the Regents and officers when they
convene on the Dearborn campus for their meeting on May 20.
Flint Campus Report. Interim Chancellor Schmoll reported that
Sean Michael Welch, a senior at UM-Flint, had his one-act play, "Earl the
Vampire," selected for performance this month at the American College
Theatre Festival, held at the Kennedy Center in Washington, DC. This play
won several awards, including the Kennedy Center's John Cauble National
Student Play Award for 1999 and will be published by Samuel French, Inc.
There will be a special performance on the Flint Campus in June.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted the Report on
Voluntary Support for March 1999.
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for the Solid State Industrial Affiliates Program and other support
in the College of Engineering, and for emproyee matching gifts............$ 20,100
Alcan Rolled Products Company, Oswego, New York
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute..................................................... 7,500
Keith E. Alessi, Lexington, Virginia
50,000 shares ofTelespectrum Worldwide, Inc., common stock
for the Keith E. and Valerie J. Alessi Fund in the School of
Business Administration............................................. 478,125
Nelda Alger, Champaign, Illinois
121 shares of DuPont common stock
for the Underwood-Alger Scholarships in the School of Music and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................ 6,390
Allergan Pharmaceuticals, Irvine, California
for support in the University Hospitals............................ 5,000
American Chemical Society Petroleum Research Fund, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Engineering.............................. 30,000
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health.................. 50,300
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education,
North Plainfield, New Jersey
for the American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education
Fellowship and other support in the College of Pharmacy.................. 25,750
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................. 55,000
Amvet Post Number 29, Mount Clemens
for the Trauma Burn Center Firefighter's Fund in the Medical School........ 6,432
Andersen Consulting Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration, and for
employee  matching gifts..............................................  12,261
Ann Arbor Acquisition Corporation, Howell
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................... 5,000
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support at the University of Michigan.................24,000
Anonymous Donor
1,200 shares of Union Pacific Railroad common stock
for the University Musical Society................................ 58,088
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................... 100,000
Anonymous Donor
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................... 8,200
Anonymous Donor
for special exhibitions support in the Museum of Art, and for the
Kelsey Museum of Archaeology in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts.........................................................  20,200
ARCO Aluminum, Inc., Louisville, Kentucky
for support in the School of Music......................................  39,000
George W. Auch III, Grosse Pointe
for the Class of 1949 Scholarship in the College of Engineering.............. 20,000


274




April Meeting, 1999


John S. Bandfield, Clearwater, Florida
for the John S. and Katherine J. Bandfield Student Loan Fund
in the School of Business Administration................................ 25,000
Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Albuquerque, New Mexico
for the Nephrology Fellows Fund in the Medical School..................... 8,000
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
for the Drs. Jack L. and Barbara A. Berman Merit Scholarship and
other support in the Medical School..................................... 10,000
Ruth W. Boldt, Bloomfield
for support of the Law School, in memory of Clarence Boldt, Jr.............. 10,000
Marvin and Betty Borman Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Betty and Marvin Borman Faculty Award Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 20,000
Wyman P. Boynton Trust
for support of the Law School.................................. 5,000
Robert P. Briggs Revocable Trust
for the Paton Accounting Center in the School of
Business Administration......................................     150,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School....................................... 8,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Oncology, Evansville, Indiana
for support in the Medical School....................................... 10,000
John S. Brown, Palo Alto, California
for support in the School of Information................................. 10,000
Richard T. Brown, Grand Rapids
218 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 10,008
Bugas Fund, Dearborn
for the Charles G. Harris Neurological Research Fund in the
Medical School...................................................... 25,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Morrisville, North Carolina
for support in the School of Public Health................................ 12,700
Canary Foundation, New York, New York
or research in the Medical School...................................... 75,000
CaP Cure, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................ 150,000
Darl F. and Lorene O. Caris Trust
for the Darl F. and Lorene O. Caris Dean's Award in the Colleges
of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 478,627
Janet E. Cassebaum, Ann Arbor
691 shares of Summit Bancorp common stock and a cash gift
for baseball support and the Varsity Tennis Complex in the
Department of Athletics, for the Janet and William Cassebaum
Award Fund and other support in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts and for the University MusicaLSociety....................... 32,876
William C. Cassebaum, Ann Arbor
for the Fred L. Leckie Scholarship and Loan Fund in the Law
School, and for the University Musical Society............................. 5,280
Elizabeth Evans Cassidy Trust
for the Raymund and Elizabeth Cassidy Endowed Book Fund in the
University  Library...................................................  300,000
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea
for the University Musical Society.................................. 5,000
Citizens, Flint
for the University Hospitals, and for WFUM-TV........................... 5,200
Civitas Initiative, Chicago, Illinois
for the Civitas Scholarships in the School of Social Work................... 37,500
Consumers Energy, Jackson
for special events support at the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane,
the University of Michigan-Dearborn and for employee matching gifts........ 6,020
Continental Teves, Inc., Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  7,500
Charles S. Coran, Brookline, Massachusetts
for the Arnold G. Coran, M.D., Endowed Professorship in the
Medical School........................................               5,000
Council of Jewish Federations Inc., New York, New York
for program support in the School of Social Work.......................... 5,831


275




April Meeting, 1999


David M. Courtis, Bellingham, Washington
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts........................................................ 220,000
Garvie T. Craw, Little Silver, New Jersey
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,000
Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  22,725
Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
for research  in the Medical School.....................................  149,926
Nathan Cummings Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in the Medical School......................................  90,000
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for support in the School of Management at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn and for employee matching gifts....................... 33,770
Charles A. Dana Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................... 50,000
Dart Group Foundation, Landover, Maryland
for the Sarah E. Metzger Memorial Scholarship in the School of Music........ 7,500
Datatel, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
for the Women's Track and Field Gift Fund in the Department of Athletics.... 5,000
De Kalb Genetics Foundation, De Kalb, Illinois
for employee matching  gifts.............................................  7,500
August E. Delanghe, Fraser
22,011 shares of Delanghe Trailer Sales, Inc., common stock
for the August E. and Lenore M. Delanghe Charitable Remainder
Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the School of Music.............. 264,177
Deloitte & Touche, Detroit
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute...................................................  7,500
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  20,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowment in the
School of Business Administration, for support in the College of
Engineering, for the 16th Biennial Conference on Chemical Education
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for employee
m atching  gifts.......................................................  75,358
Caroline M. Duesberry Estate
for the Caroline M. Duesberry Scholarship at the University of
M ichigan-Flint............................................  128,432
Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.......... 100,000
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,000
John R. Edman, Ann Arbor
4,500 shares of Source Media, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the John R. and Betty B. Edman Award Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts and for support in the
School of Business Administration...................................... 94,644
ELF Atochem North America Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 8,000
Nancy Payne Ellis, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
for the Robert S. Ellis, M.D., Endowed Fund in Allergy in the
Medical School..................... 5,000
Endocrine Fellows Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  7,500
Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Richard and Trudy Crandall Fund in the Medical School,
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment
and for other support at the University of Michigan.......... 24,650
Fight for Sight, Schaumburg, Illinois
for research in the Medical School................................  8,000
First Chicago NBD Corporation, Detroit
for special events support at the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane,
the University of Michigan-Dearborn for the University Musical
Society, and for employee matching gifts................................. 30,031
Fluor Foundation, Irvine, California
for employee matching  gifts.............................................  7,174


276




April Meeting, 1999


Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in the College of Engineering and for special events
support at the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of
Michigan-Dearborn...................................................  32,810
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the College of Engineering, for the Matthaei Botanical
Gardens in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............. 70,000
Ford Senior Players Championship, Dearborn
for the Chain of Support Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 25,000
Forest Health Services Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society...................................... 46,800
Foundation for Child Development, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research............................ 5,000
Four Friends Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Robert K. Shaye Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts........................................................  220,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Stanley D. FrankelEntrepreneurship Fund in the
School of Business Administration and for the Frankel
Fellowships in Jewish Communal Service in the School of Social Work....... 31,500
James M. French, San Francisco, California
230 shares of Gabelli Asset Fund mutual fund for the James
and Ann French Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the Law School....................................... 8,216
Melvin Friedland, New York, New York
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 25,000
Frances I. Furlong Trust
for the Harold A. Furlong Research Endowment in the Medical School....... 75,000
Gage Company, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for research  in the Medical School...................................   5,000
Gelman Educational Foundation, Ann Arbor
for program support in the School of Social Work.......................... 5,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for research in the Transportation Research Institute.....................121,000
General Motors Corporation, R & D Center, Warren
for research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 200,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for the General Motors Foundation Computer Aided Engineering
Network Fund, the Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center and the
Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering
and for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering.......................... 500,000
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation, Midland
for support in the College of Engineering................................27,000
Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation, San Francisco, California
for support in the School of Music......................................  13,000
Walter S. Gibbs Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,000
Glaucoma Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................... 87,500
Glaxo Wellcome, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for support in the Medical School....................................... 53,600
Mark R. Graham, Haverford Pennsylvania
for the Collegiate Faculty Fellow in Honors Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  50,000
Robert C. Graham, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida
for the Graham Endowment in Manufacturing in the College of
Engineering and for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  12,000
Graham Foundation for Advanced Studies in the Fine Arts, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning............... 5,000
Grant Family Foundation, New York, New York
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the
University  Library.....................................................  8,334
Wallace D. Grant, Plymouth
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 6,000
Thomas H. Green Estate
for support of the Law  School..........................................  20,000


277




April Meeting, 1999


Greenwall Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................... 38,327
Ida Grossi, Flint
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Kalvin M. Grove, St. Petersburg, Florida
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund and other support in the
Department of Athletics, and for the Millie Schembechler Memorial
Research Fund in the Medical School.................................. 30,000
Beverly Lannquist Hamilton, Marina del Rey, California
119 shares of Fidelity Magellan Fund mutual fund for the Beverly
Lannquist Hamilton Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts..........................................................  14,808
Harness, Dickey & Pierce, P.L.C., Troy
for W UOM /W VGR.....................................................  5,772
Mary-Jo C. Hewitt, Miami, Florida
for the Janet and Cynthia Hewitt Scholarship for Women at
the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................................... 5,000
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute,
and for employee matching gifts........................................  19,460
Clyde B. Hibbs Trust
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............ 12,656
Jerome S. Hirsch, Roslyn, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,000
Hospice of Michigan, Southfield
for the Palliative Care Program in the Medical School.................... 150,000
Wilma E. Huey Trust
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, for support in the
School of Social Work, and for the Clements Library....................... 10,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Program
and other support in the College of Engineering, and for research
in the Schools of Information and Medicine............................. 344,500
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for research in the College of Engineering and the School of Information.... 535,000
Marjorie M. Jackson Revocable Trust
for the Museum of Art.................................................. 5,000
John M. Jenks, Leawood, Kansas
100 shares of Walgreen Company common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,969
Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judaic StudiesProgram in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts................................................ 40,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health, and
for employee matching gifts...........................................  345,067
John C. Johnston, Jr., Estate
for support of the Law School...........................            25,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in the Medical School...................................... 33,500
Kalamazoo Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Eric V. Brown Family Scholarship in the Law School................. 6,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
and for employee matching gifts.......................................  162,100
Kessel Food Markets, Inc., Flint
for WFUM-TV........................................                6,071
Kenneth K. Kohrs Ann Arbor
100 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for the Kenneth K. Kohrs Endowed Scholarship in the College
of Engineering........................................................  5,894
Ton Koot, Montfoot, Netherlands
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  10,000
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  8,750
Lucius N. Littauer Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Littauer Judaic Book Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts.........................................................  10,000


278




April Meeting, 1999


Lockheed Martin Corporation Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the School of Art and Design.............................. 10,000
L.S.B. Leakey Foundation, Oakland, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 5,443
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 200,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School, and for employee matching gifts.......... 34,750
Magneti Marelli UK, Ltd., Cannock, England
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.......   15,000
Manitoba Foundation New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................... 75,000
Rose Mary Marin Trust
for the Axel Marin Scholarship in the College of Engineering............... 40,008
MascoTech, Inc., Fraser
for employee matching gifts.............................................  5,000
Peter J. Mather, Kalamazoo
3,040 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Mather Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the Schools of Law and Business Administration................ 184,243
Natalie Matovinovic, Ann Arbor
for the Joseph Matovinovic Award Fund in the Medical School,
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for the University Musical Society................. 5,200
J. P. McCarthy Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School...................................... 22,500
Medic Alliance, Inc., Silver Springs, Maryland
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  15,000
Meijer, Inc., Grand Rapids
for WUOM and WFM-TV............................................ 5,609
Merck & Company, Inc., Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering and for support in
the Medical School and the University Hospitals.......................... 55,750
Carole N. Metzger, Chevy Chase Maryland
for the Sarah E. Metzger Memorial Scholarship in the School of Music....... 20,000
Sidney Metzger, Osprey, Florida
759 shares of Legg Mason Value Trust mutual fund for the Sarah E.
Metzger Memorial Scholarship in the School of Music...................... 48,626
Michigan Women's Athletic Association, Ann Arbor
for the South Ferry Field Athletics Pressbox Fund and other
support in the Department of Athletics.................................. 10,050
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for research in the College of Engineering, and for employee
matching gifts.......................................................  23,750
Oscar M. Miller Estate
13,705 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Oscar M. Miller Fellowship in the College of Engineering........... 581,892
Mobil Foundation, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
for the Mobil Scholarship in Naval Architecture & Marine Engineering
in the College of Engineering..........................................  10,000
Clarence D. Moll Trust
for support in the Medical School....................................... 16,171
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for employee matching gifts........................................  6,760
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint, and for
employee matching  gifts..............................................  307,740
Horace L. Mourer Estate
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 135,131
Alberta Mulrhead Trust
for the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Honors Program
Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................... 10,000
Munn Foundation, Inc., Steamboat Springs, Colorado
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School......................... 100,000
National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, New York, New York
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering............ 10,500
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School...................................... 89,016


279




April Meeting, 1999


National Blood Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  30,000
National City Bank, Cleveland, Ohio
for the University Musical Society, and for employee matching gifts........... 7,600
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  12,500
Navistar International Transportation Corporation, Melrose Park, Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 50,000
NBD Bank, N.A., Flint
for the Flint Banker's Scholarship and other support at the
University of Michigan-Flint.. 8,500
Robert E. Nederlander Foundation, New York, New York
for endowment support in the Law School.............................. 100,000
Newman Family Foundation, Troy
for the Newman Family Foundation Scholarship in Physical
Medicine in the Medical School..............................        15,000
Richard W. and Gail B. Odgers Family Gift Fund, Clifton Park, New York
for the Edward M. and Ruth B. Gramlich Fund in the School of
Public Policy and for support in the Schools of Law and Art
and Design, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 100,000
George and Rebecca Peapples Foundation, Clifton Park, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000
Margaret L. Sherman Peet Unitrust Fund
for support of the  Law  School..........................................  17,522
Pharmaceutical Research Manufacturers of America, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Pharmacy................................... 6,000
Richard W. Pogue, Cleveland, Ohio
5,375 shares of KeyCorp common stock
for the Richard W. Pogue Endowment to Support the Study of
Business Law  in the Law  School......................................  171,328
Poppy Family Trust
for the S. Behrman Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School........... 10,000
PPG Industries, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Pritzker Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  143,750
Douglas P. Rearick, Brighton
107 shares of SEI Corporation common stock
for the Rearick Graduate Student Support Fund in the School
of Education............................................... 10,008
Reflexite Corporation, Horsholm, Denmark
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Reitter & Schefenacker USA, Rochester Hills
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  100,000
Bernard B. Rinella, Chicago, Illinois
100 shares of Schlumberger, Ltd., common stock
for the Bernard B. and Gloria L. Rinella Award Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 5,969
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Trust
for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarship in the Medical School........ 14,646
Keith M. Rudman, Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the School of Social Work................................. 25,000
Sallie Mae, Inc., Reston, Virginia
for gifts pending designation........................... 24,908
Millie Schembechler Memorial Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the
Medical School.                                                      25,000
Schreiber Foundation for Cancer Research, Holland...
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................... 10,000
William J. Schrenk, New York, New York
933 shares of Schering-Plough, Inc., common stock
for support of the Law  School..........................................  50003
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
Municipal bonds for support in the Department of Athletics............... 689,797
Alva G. Sink Trust
for the Alva G. Sink  Scholarship.......................................  188,084


280




April Meeting, 1999


Patricia A. Soeters Trust
for the Orthodontic Fund for Excellence in the School of Dentistry.......... 20,000
Solutia, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri
for scholarships and other support in the College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, and for employee matching gifts...................... 5,900
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education................................. 134,825
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, DC
for research in the Medical School...................................... 22,857
Standard Products Company, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn....................................................  12,500
Statprobe, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Richard G. Cornell Scholarship in the School of Public
Health, and for employee matching gifts................................. 10,250
Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Transition for the Center for Sustainable Systems
Fund in the School of Natural Resources and Environment,
and for special events support at the Henry Ford Estate at
Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......................... 18,240
Jeffrey and Susan Stern Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for support in the Medical School.................................  25,000
Robert G. Strachan, New York, New York
200 shares of Deluxe Corporation common stock
for the support in the School of Business Administration, and
for the Robert G. Strachan Dean's Merit Scholarship in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 6,481
Marsha Sugarman, Brookline, Massachusetts
for the Arnold G. Coran, M.D., Endowed Professorship in the
Medical School.......................................................  10,000
Marian V. W. Swortzel Charitable Lead Trust
for the Marian Vaughn Williams Swortzel Scholarship.................... 100,000
Taisho Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for research in the Medical School...................................... 70,000
Suzanne Takken, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the   Arts.........................................................  36,589
Texas Instruments, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 50,000
Thyssen, Inc., North America, Detroit
for ophthalmology research in the Medical School...................... 25,000
Time, Inc., New York, New York
for the TMQDA Fellowship in the School of Business Administration......... 5,000
Union Oil Company of California Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for emloyee matching gifts............................................ 12,000
Union Pacific Foundation, Omaha, Nebraska
for the MBA Peace Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration..... 25,000
University Microfilms International, Ann Arbor
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
and for the University Hospitals......................................... 7,900
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor,
Margaret Waterman Group, Ann Arbor
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship..................................... 6,000
Rebecca W. VanDyke, Ann Arbor
for gastroenterology support in the Medical School, and
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.................................................  6,100
Lucy Y. L. Wang, Sun City West, Arizona
for the Anthony D. Wang Scholarship in the College of Engineering.......... 90,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School, and for the University Musical Society.  53,900
Warner-Lambert Company Morris Plains, New Jersey
for research in the School of Dentistry, and for employee matching gifts...... 34,091
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for the Kresge Hearing Research Institute, for research in the
Comprehensive Cancer Center, and for the University Hospitals............. 6,548
Gerald A. Weber, Chicago, Illinois
for the Women's Track and Field Gift Fund in the Department of Athletics.... 5,000


281




April Meeting, 1999


Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Transition for the Center for Sustainable Systems Fund
in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.................... 25,000
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, Inc., New York, New York
for the Museum of Anthropology............................... 9,900
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Samuel L. Westerman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..... 10,000
Raymond I. Wilcox, Lafayette, California
90 shares of Bristol-Myers-Squibb Company common stock
for support in the College of Engineering..............5,709
Robert P. Wilson, Canton, Ohio
for the Virginia Wilson Physical Therapy Scholarship at the
University  of M ichigan-Flint............................................  5,000
Walter E. Wilson Trust
for the Robert H. Lurie Engineering Center in the College of Engineering.... 65,019
WKBN Broadcasting Corporation Foundation, Youngstown, Ohio
for the Williamson Family Professorship in the School of Business
Administration, and for support in the College of Engineering............. 610,000
Wolf Family Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 5,000
Frank B. Womer, Ann Arbor
for the Womer Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the School of Education...................................... 25,000
Theresa Ting Woo Estate
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  13,500
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for support in the College of Engineering and for the Center for
Engineering Education and Practice at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn...................................................  60,000
Richard A. Yarmain, Ann Arbor
for the Agnes, Harry and Richard Yarmain Fellowship in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 30,000
Paul A. Yhouse, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society....................................... 8,300
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Maynard Amelon, Palm Dessert, California
art work and a glass vase for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Berkowitz Gallery
W. Howard Bond, Ann Arbor
two photographs for the Museum of Art
C. E. Frazer Clark, Jr., Marquette
a collection of manuscript letters and documents regarding Lt. Frederick F. Kislingbury
for the Clements Library
Cross Huller Special Machine Systems, Fraser
a Beta 10 plus 3-axis machine for the Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Applied Mechanics
John C. Dann, Dexter
historical letters and documents of early American and Civil war interest, a collection
of books on American history, and several maps for the Clements Library
Huron Valley Labs, Inc., Romulus
various chemicals for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Department of Natural
Sciences
International Business Machines Corporation, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
computer equipment for ITD
Tim Larson, Jackson
a field analyzer with a software upgrade for the ophthalmology department
Roy Pierce, Ann Arbor
a French Aubusson tapestry for the Museum of Art
John Schloss, New York, New York
art work for the Museum of Art
Mrs. Robert Schwebel, Glen Rock, New Jersey
an extensive theatrical archive of papers relating to Avery Hopwood for the Special
Collections Library
Herbert E. Sloan, Ann Arbor
a group of Chinese objects for the Museum of Art


282




April Meeting, 1999


Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
twenty-one binders of items illustrating Cambodian sculpture for the history of art
department
Fred H. VanDer Ploeg, Grand Rapids
eighteen cases of chewing gum for the Department of Athletics
Anne L. Waldman, Boulder, Colorado
two photos, one pencil portrait and three limited edition books for the University Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors
Rhea Adgate, Fenton                   Michael J. Geiss III, Syracuse, New York
Dale E. Austin, Milan                James Goodfriend, New York, New York
Alice B. Crawford, Ann Arbor          Robert M. Klein, Bloomfield Hills
Dita, Colorado Springs, Colorado      Bernard J. Merritt, Bloomfield Hills
Hans-Peter Folz, Taylor               Kathryn A. Renken, Ann Arbor
Maria Frankowska, Carbondale, Illinois  Eileen Rogers, Ann Arbor
Frey Scientific Division, Mansfield, Ohio  Sherri A. Smith, Ann Arbor
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor called attention to the proposed
appointment of Shirley Neuman as dean of the College of LS&A and as
professor of English and professor of women's studies. She reviewed Dr.
Neuman's accomplishments in her current position as dean of the Faculty of
Arts and professor of English at the University of British Columbia, and
noted that she had been selected following an international search conducted
by a faculty search advisory committee.
Provost Cantor also noted a request for a one-year extension of the
appointment of Paul Boylan as dean of the School of Music, after which he
would begin his retirement furlough.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Neuman, Shirley, Ph.D., Professor of English Language, with tenure, Professor of Women's
Studies, without tenure, and Dean, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five
year term, August 1,1999
Rigotti, Nancy A., M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1999
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1999
Ruffolo, Mary C., Associate Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Becker, Mark P., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Public Health, three year
term, September 1, 1999
Boylan, Paul C., Dean, School of Music, one year term, July 1, 1999


283




April Meeting, 1999


Gray, Robert H., Senior Associate Dean for Research and Facilities, School of Public Health,
three year term, July 1, 1999
Woods, Richard D., Chair, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of
Engineering, two year term, September 1, 1999
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Mosberg, Henry I., Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Education, College of
Pharmacy, three year term, April 1, 1999
Vinokur, Diane KI, Interim Associate Dean, School of Social Work, five month term,
January 1, 2000
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Weisbuch, Robert A., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, personal leave extended
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective May 1, 1999
Establishing Professorships
Tara Singh and Balwant Kaur Chattha and Gurbax Singh and Kirpal Kaur Brar Sikh Studies
Professorship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five year renewable term
Helmut F. Stern Professorship in Chinese Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, five year renewable term
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointments to Professorships
Boehnke, Michael, Pharmacia & Upjohn Foundation Research Professor of Biostatistics,
School of Public Health, two year term, May 1, 1999
Crawford, Richard, Glenn McGeoch Collegiate Professor of Music, School of Music,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2004
Diouf, Mamadou, Presidential Professor of History and Afroamerican and African Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-May 30, 2000
Onuma, Yasuaki, L. Bates Lea Visiting Professor of Law, Law School, March 29-April 3, 1999
Rudge, Philip E., L. Bates Lea Visiting Professor of Law, Law School, March 15-28, 1999
Todd, Robert F., III, Frances and Victor Ginsberg Professor of Hematology/Oncology,
Medical School, five year term, May 1, 1999
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Tedesco, Lisa A., ex officio member, June 1, 1999, vice Maureen A. Hartford, resigned
Personnel reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:


284




April Meeting, 1999


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Breger, Melissa L., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, April 1, 1999 -March 31, 2001
Douyon, Liselle, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
April 1, 1999-March 31, 2002
Hoban, Timothy F., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases and Clinical Assistant Professor II of Neurology, Medical School, June 21, 1999 -June 30, 2002
Hunt, Karen A., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, April 1, 1999-March 31, 2000
Pelok, Scott D., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, March 1, 1999 -February 28, 2002
Salerno, Jennifer A., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, March 8, 1999-June 30, 2000
Smolens, Iva A., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Westfall, Margaret V., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physiology, Medical School, March 1, 1999 -February 29, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Deveikis, John P., Clinical Associate Professor II of Surgery, Medical School, February 1, 1999 -January 31, 2000
Prabhu, Mythili A., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology,
Medical School, March 1-August 31, 1999
Russell, James W., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical School,
March 1-August 31, 1999
Simpson, Jennifer L., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Ophthalmology,
Medical School, March 1, 1999-February 28, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Freter, Rolf G., Professor Emeritus of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School,
February 1, 1999-January 31, 2000
Jacquez, John A., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, Medical School, and Professor Emeritus
of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, reappointed to the Medical School, March 1, 1999 -February 28, 2000
Schwartz, Edward M., Associate Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Medical School, January
1-December 31, 1999
Wagner, Warren H., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Botany, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources, School of Natural Resources
and Environment, reappointed to the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
February 1, 1999-January 31, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Alexander, William R., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2000
Bornstein, George J., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and C. A.
Patrides Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Cohan, Richard H., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
March 1-July 31, 1999
285




April Meeting, 1999


Ertel, Inta J., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical
School, extended sick leave, April 5-May 31, 1999
Ethier, Stephen P., Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, Medical School,
and Assistant Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, School of Public
Health, sabbatical leave, November 1, 1998-April 30, 1999
Gonzalez, Maria, Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, medical
leave, March 6-31, 1999
Howard, June M., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, American
Culture, and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Kucich, John R., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Lindeman, Joyce I., Associate Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, Division of Kinesiology,
and Lecturer in Education, School of Education, retirement furlough, September 1, 1999 -May 31, 2000
Rabkin, Eric S., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Starkman, Monica N., Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, Medical School,
sabbatical leave, April 12-October 11, 1999
Viers, Yannick A., Lecturer III in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
extended sick leave, March 15-April 4, 1999
CORRECTION TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 21, 1998-September 20, 1999
Silver, Dorit A., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, personal leave,
(previously reported as September 21, 1998-March 20, 1999
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Aaron, Melissa D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1999
Baliga, Narayan, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School,
February 28, 1999
Burstein, Miriam E., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1999
Cronk, Michael S., Lecturer in Information Studies, School of Information, March 19, 1999
Goyal, Rajiva, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, February 5, 1999
Lawless, Gordon T., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, March 4, 1999
Ropp, Leland, Clinical Assistant Professor II in Surgery, Medical School, March 31, 1999
Retired
Nowak, Paul F., Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, May 31, 1999
Olson, Charles E., Jr., Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, May 31, 1999
Pebworth, Ted-Larry, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, April 30, 1999
Wylie, E. Benjamin, Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, College
of Engineering, May 31, 1999
Term Completed
Gray, Whitmore, Professor Emeritus of Law, Law School, March 19, 1999
Spencer, Carolyn R., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, March 28, 1999


286




April Meeting, 1999


Twiss, Ian S. R., Lecturer I in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1999
Retirement Memoirs.       Vice President and Secretary Tedesco
submitted one retirement memoir for adoption.
Ted-Larry Pebworth, Ph.D., professor of English language and
literature in the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, will retire from active faculty status on April 30, 1999.
Professor Pebworth received his B.A. degree from Centenary College in
Louisiana in 1957, his M.A. degree from Tulane University in 1958, and his
Ph.D. degree from Louisiana State University in 1966. From 1958-62, he
taught at Southeastern Louisiana College, then returned to Louisiana State
University from 1962-66, first as a teaching assistant and then as an
instructor in English. He was an assistant professor of English at the
University of Illinois at Chicago from 1966-70 and an assistant professor at
San Fernando State College from 1970-71 before being appointed assistant
professor of English at the University of Michigan-Dearborn in 1971. He was
promoted to associate professor in 1972 and professor in 1976. In 1989,
Professor Pebworth was appointed the William E. Stirton Professor in
Humanities, the highest faculty honor on the Dearborn campus.
Professor Pebworth has published widely on seventeenth-century English
literature and on textual theory. Among his books are studies of Ben Jonson
and Owen Felltham, as well as editions of Felltham, Jonson, and collections of
essays on numerous seventeenth-century figures and topics. He is a senior
textual editor and member of the advisory board of The Variorum Edition of
the Poetry of John Donne and is a past president of the John Donne Society.
His honors include the University of Michigan-Dearborn's outstanding Faculty
Research Award in 1988, the John Donne Society's Distinguished Publication
Award in 1994, and the Michigan Association of Governing Boards of State
Universities' Distinguished Faculty Award in 1997.
During his career, Professor Pebworth has served the University in a
variety of ways, including membership on the Rackham Graduate School
Divisional Board, the Faculty Distinguished Research Award Selection
Committee, and the college dxecutive committee; and a term as chair of the
Department of Humanities.
The Regents now salute this accomplished teacher and scholar for his
dedicated service by naming Ted-Larry Pebworth professor emeritus of
English language and literature.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported this
month.
Degrees.   Provost Cantor submitted for approval the May 1999
Doctoral Degree List and changes to previously approved degree lists.
Consent Agenda approved.      On a motion by Regent McGowan,
seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the
Consent Agenda.


287




April Meeting, 1999


Sale of Tax Exempt Commercial Paper to Finance University's
Projects
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously authorized a $4.5 million increase, to $70.1 million, in
the amount outstanding of the tax exempt commercial paper supported by a
pledge of General Revenues. The purpose of the increase is to fund a
previously approved project for upgrading of the electrical and fire alarm
systems of the South Quadrangle.
Gift of Real Estate to Fund Charitable Remainder Unitrust
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that Frank J. Turner, one of
the parties to the charitable remainder unitrust described in the Regents
Communication, had died during the past week, so consequently some of the
terms of the proposal must be revised. On a motion by Regent McGowan,
seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents unanimously approved accepting
and then selling the commercial real estate building located in Caro,
Michigan, into the Frank J. and Harriett Turner Charitable Remainder
Unitrust. The University will obtain an appraisal of the property to assist in
establishing a sales price.
Alternative Asset Investment
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved commitment of up to $20 million to Silver
Lake Partners, L.P., pending favorable review of the legal documents by the
Office of the General Counsel.
Women's Rowing Team Facility New Building
Regent White moved approval of the revised budget of $1,200,000 for
the previously approved new facility for the Women's rowing team and to
release the project for construction. Regent Maynard seconded the motion,
and it was approved unanimously.
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that this project will be financed
with commercial paper. Regent Newman moved to authorize the issuance of
$1.2 million of commercial paper to finance this project. This increases the
authorized amount of commercial paper to $71.3 million. Regent McGowan
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
University of Michigan-Flint Professional Studies and Classroom
Building
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously authorized issuing the Professional Studies and
Classroom Building (PSCB) project for bids and awarding a construction
contract providing the costs remain within the project budget.


288




April Meeting, 1999


400 North Ingalls Building Orthopedic Surgery Renovations
Regent Brandon moved approval of renovations to the Orthopedics
Research Laboratories, as described in the Regents Communication. Regent
Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent Newman requested that the Regents receive an update of space
usage and planning for the health system. Executive Vice President Omenn
responded that this will be provided in conjunction with the upcoming
FY2000 budget request.
Taubman Medical Library Renovations
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the
Regents unanimously approved initiating the design for renovations to the
second and fourth floors of the Taubman Medical Library and selecting
David Milling Associates in conjunction with Peter Basso Associates as the
architect/engineer. The renovations are for the Medical School's Graduate
Studies Program, the lobby, and the reserve collection, as described in the
Regents Communication.
Purchasing Contract with David Alban Kilnbuilders
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved a purchasing contract with David Alban
Kilnbuilders. Because the sole proprietor of David Alban Kilnbuilders, David
Alban, is also a visiting assistant professor at the University of Michigan,
this contract falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the
University of Michigan and its School of Art and Design and David
Alban Kilnbuilders.
2.  The terms of the contract are that David Alban Kilnbuilders is to
provide labor and materials necessary for the construction of a car
kiln, at a total amount of $42,500.
3.  Mr. Alban's pecuniary interest arises by virtue of the fact that he is
the sole proprietor of David Alban Kilnbuilders.
Proposed License Agreement with Gradient Technologies, LLC
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the
Regents unanimously approved a license agreement between the University
of Michigan and Gradient Technologies, LLC, for commercialization of the
invention "Multifunction Compact Planar Antenna with Planar Graded
Index Superstrate Lens." Because Linda P.B. Katehi and Kamal Sarabandi
are University of Michigan employees who also have an equity interest in
Gradient Technologies, LLC, this agreement falls under the state of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:


289




April Meeting, 1999


1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and
Gradient Technologies, LLC.
2.  Terms of the contract include:
A license issue fee of $6,000.00.
Royalties to the University of 4.0%.
Royalties of 20% on sublicense revenue.
Exclusive right to practice and commercialize the technology,
subject to certain rights reserved by the University to practice it
for research and educational purposes. The University retains
ownership.
Minimum annual royalties of $10,000.00 for 2001; $10,000.00
for 2002; $10,000.00 for 2003; and $50,000.00 for 2004 and each
year thereafter during the term of the agreement.
Term of the agreement is for the life of the patent.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of
University employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.  Linda P.B. Katehi's and Kamal Sarabandi's pecuniary interests arise
from their ownership interest in Gradient Technologies, LLC. They
will waive any personal participation in the sharing of royalties
received by the University from the company.
Research Agreement with Frontier Medical, LLC
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved a research agreement between the University
of Michigan and Frontier Medical, LLC, through which Frontier Medical,
LLC will fund a project at the University of Michigan through an SBIR
Phase I grant it has received. Because a part-owner of Frontier Medical,
LLC, Neal H. Clinthorne, is also a University of Michigan employee, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and
Frontier Medical, LLC.
2.  The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The
period of performance is six months at a total cost of $9,719. The
University's portion of the work will be performed under the
direction of Nicholas A. Petrick, Ph.D. He has no ties with Frontier
Medical, LLC. He neither works with nor reports to Dr. Clinthorne,
who is a University employee and holds approximately 50% of the
company's stock.
3.  Dr. Clinthorne's pecuniary interest arises from his partial ownership
of Frontier Medical, LLC.
Academic Calendar for 2001-2002
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved the academic calendar for the Ann Arbor
Campus for 2001-2002, as described in the Regents Communication.


290




April Meeting, 1999


Change in Name of Department of Ophthalmology
Regent Brandon moved that the name of the Department of
Ophthalmology be changed to the Department of Ophthalmology and Visual
Sciences.  Regent White seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Addition to the Bylaws of the University of Michigan Hospitals
Executive Board
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved an addition to the bylaws of the University of
Michigan Hospitals Executive Board. The new bylaw (Section 3.10) will
provide for the use of unanimous written consent as a means of taking action
without a meeting.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 2000
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the
Regents unanimously approved the following schedule of meetings for 2000:
January 20-21               July 13-14
February 17-18              August - No meeting
March 16-17                 September 21-22
April 13-14                 October 19**-20
May 18*-19                  November 16-17
June 15-16                  December 14-15
* Held at UM-Dearborn       ** Held at UM-Flint
Michigan Student Assembly Biannual Report
Mr. Trent Thompson, president of Michigan Student Assembly (MSA),
gave a report in which he reviewed the accomplishments of MSA during the
past year and described the projects planned for the coming year. He also
shared a personal story describing how his experiences at the University have
caused him to grow academically and socially. He shared his appreciation for
how much the University's emphasis on diversity and affirmative action
enriched his entire educational experience.
Mr. Thompson concluded by thanking Vice President Hartford and the
Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs for their work on behalf of
MSA and the Regents and executive officers for creating "an environment of
learning, toleration, and mutual respect" at the University, which he believes
has prepared him for the real world. He then introduced the incoming MSA
president, Mr. Bram Elias. President Bollinger thanked Mr. Thompson for
his work during the past year, and he received a round of applause.
Vice President Ulaby announced that the newly restored Detroit
Observatory will be rededicated at a ceremony taking place on Friday, May 21.


291




April Meeting, 1999


Michigan Greats
Vice President Ulaby gave a multimedia presentation describing the life
and accomplishments of Amalya Lyle Kearse, a 1962 graduate of the
University of Michigan Law School and U.S. Appeals Court Judge for the
Second Circuit in New York City, who he characterized as a gifted legal
scholar, first-rate legal writer, and shrewd analyst.
Adjournment
Following the presentation, the meeting was adjourned at 10:45 a.m.
The next meeting is scheduled for May 20-21, 1999.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and
Secretary of the University


292




MAY MEETING, 1999


The University of Michigan
Dearborn
Thursday, May 20, 1999
The Regents convened at 1:30 p.m. in the Music Room of the Henry Ford
Estate - Fair Lane on the campus of the University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Present were President Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning,
Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Taylor, and White. Also present were
Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Vice President Hartford, Executive
Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov,
Executive Vice President Omenn, Chancellor Renick, Interim Chancellor
Schmoll, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and
Vice President Wilbanks.
Life Sciences Initiative and Institute
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and thanked Chancellor
Renick and members of the Dearborn campus community for hosting the
meeting. President Bollinger announced that the first order of business
would be to continue the discussion of the life sciences initiative and explore
in more detail the idea of the life sciences institute.
Significance of the Initiative to the Schools and Colleges
President Bollinger introduced Stephen W. Director, dean of the College
of Engineering, as the first of four deans who would discuss the significance
of the initiative to the schools and colleges.
Dean Director observed that research in the life sciences is already
pervasive in the College of Engineering, as shown by the creation of the
Department of Biomedical Engineering several years ago as well as by faculty
research activities in the more traditional areas of engineering. He noted
that there are currently about 50 projects related to the life sciences ongoing
within the college, and he described four of these projects in the areas of
microelectromechanical systems, laser eye surgery, tissue engineering, and
bio-imaging. He pointed out that all of these projects are directly related to
the life sciences initiative, will benefit greatly from the initiative, and will
help support it as well.
Patricia Gurin, interim dean of the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, spoke about how this college would benefit from the life sciences
institute and the broader life science initiative. Specifically, the resources of
the institute would enhance the quality and national ranking of the science
departments in the college. The institute would provide an opportunity for
the integration and mutual enrichment of applied and theoretical basic
science and it would present exciting opportunities for undergraduate
education. She also noted that the broader life sciences initiative offers
many opportunities for college and cross-campus intellectual developments,


293




May Meeting, 1999


as embodied by the proposed Center for the Study of Evolution, Ecology, and
Behavior.
Dean Gurin noted that the physical separation of the traditional
disciplines, departments, and professional schools is a powerful inhibitor to
the daily discourse that is essential to the development of a common research
experience and a facile exchange of ideas. The creation of a life sciences
institute will eliminate the structural barriers to a shared research and
learning experience that will be valuable for both basic and applied research.
Regarding contributions of the life sciences institute to undergraduates,
Dean Gurin described how the creation of the new institute near Couzens
Hall will facilitate the participation of faculty in undergraduate education
through such entities as the new living/learning program planned for
Couzens Hall in 2001 for first year students interested in broad issues of
health and science. She noted that there is also a proposal for a new
undergraduate interdisciplinary concentration in molecular and integrative
neurosciences. With a strong commitment to undergraduate education in
the institute, she said that Michigan has a unique opportunity of having a
truly integrated interdisciplinary neuroscience undergraduate program.
Allen Lichter, interim dean of the Medical School, expressed the support
of the Medical School for this project. He reported that the Medical School
has three missions: to train physicians and biomedical scientists, to create
new knowledge in biology and medicine, and to create state-of-the-art care
for patients. He noted that as paradigs change in science, the Medical
School has to change as well, to take maximum advantage of these paradigm
shifts. Science is currently in the midst of a paradigm shift described as the
"post-genome world," in which for the first time there is an ability to
integrate, analyze, and interpret systematically the complex biologic systems
based on a knowledge of all relevant components ofre those systems. With the
right people from the right disciplines organized in the right way, he
observed, the organizational principles of life will begin to be revealed and
understanding these principles will significantly change the course of biology
and of medicine.
Dean Lichter pointed out that the universities and research institutes
that have a sense of timing can position themselves correctly by bringing
together multidisciplinary groups in conjunction with resources and will be
able to discover and apply new organizational rules for biology.  He
concluded that he and his colleagues in the Medical School believe that the
time is right for the University of Michigan to become a leading player in the
post-genomic revolution, and in fact it is critical that the University do so. As
interim dean of the Medical School, he offered his strong and enthusiastic
support for the life sciences initiative and institute.
William E. Kotowicz, dean of the School of Dentistry, then spoke about
the impact of the life sciences initiative and institute on the School of
Dentistry. He pointed out that the research scope of the school is very broad,
involving all areas of biology related to the craniofacial complex as well as
population studies and health care delivery. Researchers in the school are


294




May Meeting, 1999


involved in the study of problems that will require expertise in all areas
targeted for the life sciences initiative.
Dean Kotowicz also noted that in order to have representation in all the
areas contained in the oral health sciences, dental school faculty must be
necessarily diverse, with backgrounds in the major biomedical research
disciplines as well as in the traditional dental specialties. Current dental
faculty work in all areas targeted for the life sciences initiative, and the
presence of the institute would enhance the ability to attract the highest
level faculty. The ability to work collaboratively with other disciplines and to
recruit jointly with other schools and colleges will be of great benefit to
faculty and to educational programs in the school.
President Bollinger then called for discussion on the presentations by
the deans. Regent McGowan noted that the board has enormous regard for
the clinical faculty in the Medical School and is well aware of the
contributions made to the Health System reserves by the clinical faculty.
She asked Dr. Lichter what the perspective of the clinical faculty is on the
proposed use of significant amounts of these reserves for this initiative.
Dean Lichter responded that the faculty leadership believes that the
reserves have been created to enhance the Medical School and the Health
System, which will thereby enhance the University. He observed that the
faculty has the choice of being a "very good place with a lot of money in the
bank" or a "great place with a little bit less money in the bank." The faculty
has decided that it prefers the latter option and looks very favorably on
investing these resources for the future benefit of the Medical School.
President Bollinger thanked the deans for enhancing everyone's
understanding and appreciation of the life sciences and for their support of
the institute.
The Institute and the Health System
Executive Vice President Omenn noted that the life sciences initiative is
important not only for the University of Michigan, but for people of the
state, due to the fact that it will affect many areas important to the state's
citizens, from public health to economic development. Executive Vice
President Omenn also observed that colleagues nationwide as well as within
the institution are aware of the current situation at the University that has
been described by the faculty and deans who have addressed the Board, and
said that there is a sense of excitement that the University intends to
improve its status in areas in which growth will be appreciated, by becoming
a leader in the life sciences.
Executive Vice President Omenn noted that the Health System has
begun development of a strategic plan, one part of which is to anticipate
what the field of medicine will be like in five to ten years and to determine
how the Health System can shape its future. The kinds of technological
developments envisioned in the life sciences will change the kinds of facilities
needed, practices offered, and benefits that can be provided to patients.
Creation of the institute will allow the Health System to be a leader in the
development of these technologies.
295




May Meeting, 1999


He observed that over the last decade, the Health System has spent
about $80 million per year in the Hospitals and Health Centers and about
$40 million per year in the Medical School. Over the next five year period, it
is estimated that about $700 million will be spent on new program
developments or enhancements of existing programs, maintenance of the
physical plant, and equipment replacement. He said that faculty understand
that careful investment of the asset base in such endeavors as the life
sciences institute is crucial to maintaining the system's leadership position,
and this is viewed as a priority.
Programmatic Assumptions and Budget Planning
Provost Cantor related details about academic and budgetary
programming for the life sciences institute. She observed that although
there are already pockets of faculty members collaborating on projects
around the campus, an institute provides a convening space for collaboration
and an ideal environment for creating new knowledge and new ideas. She
noted that a life sciences institute can help build up departments and
professional schools with relevant missions in the same manner as the
Institute for Social Research (ISR) did for the University's social science
departments. She also pointed out that just as ISR's growth was built
largely on increases in federal support for research in the social sciences, it is
anticipated that the institute's full development will be fueled by increased
federal support for research in the life sciences.
In order to succeed, she noted that the institute will need to develop
clear links and permeable boundaries, both among academic departments
and programs within the University and with the external world through
technological innovation, product development, translational and outcomes
research, and with federal research agencies. The institute will also need to
be flexible enough to respond to new and unexpected challenges.
An initial budget model constructs annual institute expenses at
approximately $9.6 million. An endowment of approximately $110 million
will provide interest revenue of approximately $5.5 million, and indirect cost
recovery is expected to provide approximately $4.1 million. The budget is
expected to support about 30 faculty and staff salaries and benefits; ongoing
facility and equipment upgrades; academic programming; a director's
strategic initiative fund; operating costs of space; and other operating
expenses. She emphasized that the budget is constructed to ensure quick
responses to new opportunities as they arise.
Regent Brandon inquired about partnerships that are anticipated with
Michigan State and Wayne State Universities. Provost Cantor responded
that the "life sciences corridor" concept, which is being developed jointly by
the University of Michigan, Michigan State University, and Wayne State
University as a proposal to the state, is focused on encouraging partnerships
that build on the strengths of the three universities. Efforts are being made
to determine how the three largest research universities in the state can
work together to enhance opportunities for technology transfer in areas
related to the life sciences.  Vice President Ulaby observed that the


296




May Meeting, 1999


University of Michigan already is participating in a number of joint research
projects with both Michigan State University and Wayne State University.
In response to a question from Regent Newman about the involvement
of the Flint and Dearborn campuses in the life sciences, Executive Vice
President Omenn stated that there is already a program on the Dearborn
campus in health policy that has a joint arrangement with the Ann Arbor
campus. In addition, both the Dearborn and Flint campus are represented
on the Medical Affairs Advisory Committee of SACUA. Provost Cantor noted
that the Dearborn and Flint campuses have a number of interdisciplinary
programs operated through the Rackham graduate school that are relevant
to this endeavor. The existence of the life sciences institute on the Ann
Arbor campus would be a good recruiting tool for those campuses as well.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Bram Elias, president of Michigan
Student Assembly, about the MSA agenda for 1999-2000.
A five-minute break followed, after which the meeting reconvened at
3:35 p.m.
Campus Planning, Facilities, and Finances
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that following years of
intensive construction and growth on the Ann Arbor campus, President
Bollinger, with Regental support, decided to engage in a comprehensive
master planning exercise. The firm of Venturi, Scott Brown and Associates
(VSBA) was retained to provide advice on campus planning. The first stage
of the VSBA study set out to understand the existing campus and was
completed in the Spring of 1998.
The life sciences initiative and the broader relationship of central
campus and the health science schools was the second area emphasized, and
the development of the Palmer Drive Site is the current focus of that review.
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that several years ago a parking deck
had been approved by the Regents for that site. However, the review of the
site in conjunction with VSBA determined that this site is appropriate for
much more intensive, robust development that reflects academic as well as
parking needs. The development that is envisioned will physically unify the
central campus with the medical campus, both by use of a pedestrian bridge
and by creating a vital space that will shape the programmatic relationships
among the schools and colleges.
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that a number of laboratory
buildings would be constructed in the coming years, and that the
architecture of these buildings is driven by programmatic needs.  He
suggested that the Regents begin to consider the type of architecture desired
for these buildings, in keeping with the existing Albert Khan buildings built
early in this century.
He then introduced Denise Scott Brown and Robert Venturi, principals
in the firm of Venturi, Scott Brown and Associates. Mr. Venturi gave an


297




May Meeting, 1999


overview of Ann Arbor city and campus land use, which included maps and
photographs of the campus's generic loft buildings designed by Albert Kahn.
Ms. Brown then gave a presentation illustrating land use patterns for
the campus and surrounding areas; usage of land for the sciences,
classrooms, and performing arts; and a number of other categories of
building and land usage and traffic patterns. The historical development of
the campus was described through its current configuration of south, central,
medical, north, and east campuses. Diagrams were shown displaying existing
and potential pedestrian walkways and existing building access and parking
sites in the Palmer Drive area.
Through the examination of maps and schematics, several useful
conclusions were provided regarding concentration of activity on central,
medical, and north campuses. The patterns revealed approaches that should
be used to integrate the central and medical campuses to achieve full access
for faculty, staff, students, and for patients and clients of the University.
At this juncture, the presentation focused on potential sites for the life
sciences institute. The Palmer Drive site that had formerly been designated
for a parking structure with one non-laboratory building upon it should now
be considered as a potential site for the life sciences institute as well as a
parking deck and other buildings.
She concluded by displaying a diagram denoting sites available for
potential development in the Medical Campus and Palmer Drive areas. In
addition to a site for the life sciences institute, possible programmatic uses
include laboratory space, non-laboratory academic space, a cafeteria, and
offices. Several diagrams illustrating building options for the Palmer Drive
site that would include a parking deck with the capacity for 800-1,000 spaces
were also offered.
In response to a question about the planned number of parking spaces,
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that the University may enter into a
joint agreement with the City of Ann Arbor that would provide the
University with about 300-350 parking spaces in the city parking structure
on Forest Street. Such an agreement would provide a number of parking
spaces that would accommodate new campus areas. He also noted that the
proposed new parking facility in the Palmer Drive area will have the same
parking capacity as the previously approved structure.
Ms. Brown then displayed models of the proposed Palmer Drive site. A
presentation on laboratory architecture then followed.
Public Comments
Following the presentation, the Regents heard comments from Suneel
Gupta, president of the UM-Dearborn student government, about improving
the visibility of the University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Regent Horing left the meeting at this point, at about 4:30 p.m.


298




May Meeting, 1999


Discussion of Life Sciences Institute
Regent Deitch thanked Ms. Brown and Mr. Venturi for a very
informative presentation. He observed that the life sciences institute is "a
very exciting venture" that he endorsed wholeheartedly.
Regent Taylor inquired what the next step would be in constructing a
building on the proposed site. Executive Vice President Kasdin reviewed the
three-step process for construction of a new building, noting that it begins
with appointment of an architect by the Regents. Next, the architect
completes a schematic design and a preliminary budget, which is also
approved by the Regents. Finally, the architect presents for approval a
detailed design for the building and a final budget which is ready to be let
out to bid.
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that a parking deck will be built
in conjunction with the new building. He observed that funding for the
parking deck will be derived from parking system revenues and is not
considered as part of the life sciences budget. Regent Maynard suggested
that the new parking structure should include the maximum possible
number of spaces. Regent McGowan agreed that because there are now new
expectations for use of the structure on the previously approved site, having
sufficient parking availability will be very important.
Regent Newman suggested that a presentation be given to the Regents
about projections for parking needs on campus for the next twenty years.
Executive Vice President Kasdin agreed and reported that a number of new
options had recently been introduced to alleviate the parking situation on
campus. He also noted that the preliminary plans for the new structure allow
for a fuller academic program without sacrificing any of the parking capacity
that had been planned for that site previously.
In response to a question from Regent Brandon about the proposed
timeline for the life sciences institute, Executive Vice President Kasdin said
that once the lead person has been identified who will be knowledgeable
about programmatic requirements for the new facility, it will be two and
one-half to three years to the building's completion. The next step for
Regents' approval will be the appointment of an architect.
President Bollinger summarized that the Board's endorsement of
pursuing the life sciences initiative and establishing an institute is the first
step. Creating the institute itself will involve designing the building,
identifying a director, and making initial appointments to the institute. He
envisions that the institute will be "up and running" within three years.
Resolution in Honor of Chancellor Renick
Regent Deitch read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan salute and congratulate
Chancellor James C. Renick as he leaves the University on July 15, 1999,


299




May Meeting, 1999


to become chancellor of North Carolina Agricultural and Technical
State University.
The University is grateful for the leadership Chancellor Renick
has provided since his appointment as chancellor and professor of
education and public administration at the University of MichiganDearborn in 1993.   Chancellor Renick has worked closely with
community and business leaders to strengthen the Dearborn campus's
relationships with residents of Southeastern Michigan. Enrollment
has grown to historically high levels, due in part to curricular
developments tailored to the needs of the region, including master's
degree programs in engineering, computer technology, and education.
The UM-Dearborn completed its first capital campaign, raising more
than $25 million during Chancellor Renick's tenure. In addition,
during the past six years, the campus has secured approval and
funding from the state legislature to support a building program that
literally has transformed the campus.
Although the Regents will miss Chancellor Renick, we are
pleased that this opportunity will enable him to express his longstanding commitment to historically Black colleges and universities
through his leadership. His father taught at an historically Black
institution, and Chancellor Renick is a graduate of Ohio's Central
State University, where his daughter is now a student.
The Regents commend James C. Renick for his leadership in the
field of education and for his distinguished service to the University of
Michigan-Dearborn and wish him continued success at North
Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University.
A round of applause followed, after which Chancellor Renick thanked
the Regents and said that it had been an honor to serve as chancellor.
The meeting recessed at 5:15 p.m.
Ann Arbor
Friday, May 21, 1999
The Regents convened at 9:10 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horing, Maynard,
McGowan, Newman, Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost Cantor,
Vice President Feagin, Vice President Hartford, Executive Vice President
Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Executive Vice
President Omenn, Chancellor Renick, Interim Chancellor Schmoll, Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President
Wilbanks.
Life Sciences Initiative and Institute
President Bollinger reviewed the process by which the idea of pursuing a
life sciences initiative had been presented to and endorsed by the faculty.
Establishment of the life sciences institute goes beyond this, involving


300




May Meeting, 1999


master planning and the need to connect the separate campuses. He noted
that the Regents have served as a focal point in moving this plan forward,
ensuring that the very best effort was made to produce a comprehensive plan.
Regent McGowan observed that this is the most important issue of
substance to come before the University in some time. She noted that the
Regents have been involved from the beginning and have received all of the
information that has been needed, and praised Vice President and Secretary
Tedesco for her efforts on behalf of the life sciences initiative.
Regent Deitch said that he shared Regent McGowan's views and also
gave credit to President Bollinger for the focused, imaginative way in which
he recognized the need for this project and pursued it. He noted that this
was a great, defining moment for the University, organized around what is
one of the core purposes of the University: creating knowledge. He moved
that the Regents endorse the life sciences initiative, approve the
establishment of a life sciences institute, and empower the president to take
such initial steps as are necessary to establish an institute, including but not
limited to securing funds, searching for a director, and developing an
appropriate organizational structure for the institute. Regent McGowan
seconded the motion.
Regent Maynard commented that it is essential that the University of
Michigan be a leader in the life sciences resolution. The vote was then
taken, and endorsement of the life sciences initiative and approval of the life
sciences institute were approved unanimously.
President's Remarks
President Bollinger noted that the men's gymnastics team, which two
years previously had endured a winless season, had won the 1999 NCAA
national championship. In addition, Coach Golder had been named Midwest
Regional Coach of the Year and Assistant Coach Burns had received the
National Assistant Coach of the Year award.
He also reported on a number of faculty accomplishments and awards
during the past month. He noted that as part of the debut of the Festival of
New Works, a new summertime stage series, Arthur Miller would be
returning to the campus. He announced that the idea of an Arthur Miller
Theater will be launched during 2000-2001, and that an advisory committee
is being formed to pursue this theater.
He noted that a rededication ceremony was scheduled for the newlyrestored Detroit Observatory that day. Finally, he announced that Jessye
Norman and Bill T. Jones were presenting a joint work at the Lincoln Center
in New York City that had originally been created at the University of
Michigan.
Resolution in Honor of Men's Gymnastics Team
Regent Horning called o the podium Coach Kurt Golder and members
of the men's gymnastics team and read the following resolution:


301




May Meeting, 1999


Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan applaud the men's
gymnastics team and its coaches for a spectacular season, culminating
with the National Championship at the National Collegiate Athletic
Association finals in Lincoln, Nebraska, on April 23, 1999. The
team's victory marks Michigan's third national men's gymnastics title
and the University's 50th national championship overall.
Michigan's masters of the pommel horse, rings, and floor exercise
demonstrated great mental and physical strength, confidence, and an
affinity for hard work throughout the season. The gymnasts also are
outstanding students: more than 97 percent graduate with a B average
or better.
Since coming to Michigan three years ago, Coach Kurt Golder
has reinvigorated the gymnastics program by recruiting top student
athletes, enhancing the team's strengthening and conditioning
program, and setting high practice standards. He has taken the team
from a winless 1996 season to its current status as a formidable
competitor. Coach Golder, who guided the Wolverines to their first Big
Ten Conference championship since 1975, has been named National
Coach of the Year as well as Midwest Regional Coach of the Year.
Assistant Coach Mike Burns, who was instrumental in recruiting last
season, has been recognized with the National Assistant Coach of the
Year Award.
The Regents salute the men's gymnastics team and coaches Golder
and Burns for an outstanding season and the rich contributions they
are making to the University of Michigan's academic and athletic
tradition.
Coach Golder thanked the Regents for the resolution.
Recommended Promotions to the Ranks of Professor and Associate
Professor
Ann Arbor campus. Provost Cantor submitted recommendations for
the promotion of 138 faculty members, and described the rigorous review
process for promotion to tenured associate and full professorships. She then
reviewed several case histories, demonstrating the most exemplary qualities
of the University's faculty.
President Bollinger observed that the promotion review of the faculty is
one of the most important tasks undertaken at the University, and a great
deal of attention is paid to the process at every level.
PROMOTIONS TO THE RANKS OF
PROFESSOR AND ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR
Effective September 1, 1999
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Groat, Linda N., from Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure


302




May Meeting, 1999


School of Business Administration
Baker, Wayne E., from Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Hines, James R., Jr., from Associate Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
Muir, Dana M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Business Law, with tenure
Nanda, Vikram K., Associate Professor of Finance, awarded tenure
Sloan, Richard G., from Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Yeung, Bernard Y., from Associate Professor of International Business, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
School of Dentistry
Gerstner, Geoffrey E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
May, Kenneth B., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
Razoog, Michael E., from Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Ship, Jonathan A., from Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
College of Engineering
Arruda, Ellen, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and
Applied Mechanics, with tenure
Banaszak Holl, Mark M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Macromolecular
Science and Engineering, without tenure
Chen, Peter, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, with tenure
Dowling, David, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and
Applied Mechanics, with tenure
Mastrangelo, Carlos, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science, with tenure
Meadows, Guy, from Associate Professor of Physical Oceanography, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
Mooney, David, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with
tenure, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering,
without tenure
Pan, Jwo, from Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Papaefthymiou, Marios, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure
Peng, Huei, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and
Applied Mechanics, with tenure
Perkins, Noel, from Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Division of Kinesiology
Gross, Melissa M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure
Law School
Heller, Michael A., from Assistant Professor to Professor of Law, with tenure
Hills, Roderick M., Jr., from Assistant Professor to Professor of Law, with tenure
Mann, Ronald J., from Assistant Professor to Professor of Law, with tenure
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Anderson, Elizabeth S., from Associate Professor of Philosophy and Women's Studies, with
tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Aparicio, Frances R., from Associate Professor of Spanish and American Culture, with tenure,
to Professor, with tenure
Banaszak Holl, Mark M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemistry, with
tenure
Barsky, Robert B., from Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Baumiller, Tomasz K, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Geological Sciences,
with tenure, and from Assistant Curator to Associate Curator of Paleontology
Caufield, Sueann, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, with tenure,
Department of History and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History,
without tenure, Residential College


303




May Meeting, 1999


Chernew, Michael E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Economics, without
tenure
Chhibber, Pradeep, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Political Science, with
tenure
Dierker, Steven B., from Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Freedman, Jonathan E., from Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with
tenure, to Professor, with tenure, and from Associate Professor of American Studies,
with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Gagos, Traianos, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Papyrology and Greek,
with tenure
Glick, Gary D., from Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Hales, Thomas C., from Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, to Professor, with
tenure
Highfill, Juli A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure
Hilton, James L., from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Ji, Lizhen, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
Kimball, Miles S., from Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Kimeldorf, Howard A., from Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, to Professor, with
tenure
Kollman, Kenneth W., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Political Science,
with tenure
Kuwanda, John Y., from Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Lee, Theresa M., from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Mackie-Mason, Jeffrey K., from Associate Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with
tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Mrazek, Rudolf, from Associate Professor of History, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Mukasa, Samuel B., from Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
Nolen-Hoeksema, Susan K., from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
OConnor, Barry M., from Associate Professor of Biological Sciences, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
Olsen, Laura J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure
Qian, Jianming, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure
Rappe, Sara L., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Greek and Latin, with tenure
Ross, Marlon B., from Associate Professor of English and Afroamerican and African Studies,
with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Sandelands, Lloyd E., from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, to Professor, with
tenure
Schoenfeldt, Michael C., from Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with
tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Sension, Roseanne J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Strassmann, Beberly I., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anthropology,
with tenure
Volling, Brenda L., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Wilson, Mark L., Associate Professor of Biology, awarded tenure
Yaeger, Patricia S., from Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and
Women's Studies, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Zurier, Rebecca, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure
Medical School
Anderson, Robert M., from Associate Professor of Medical Education, without tenure, to
Professor, without tenure
Blow, Frederic C., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, without
tenure
Bunchman, Timothy E., from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Cascade, Philip N., from Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Chamberlain, Jeffrey S., from Associate Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
Chenevert, Thomas L., from Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, to Professor, with
tenure


304




May Meeting, 1999


Coffey, Michael J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine,
with tenure
Crofford, Leslie J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine,
with tenure
De Monte, Monte A., from Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure, and from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
without tenure, to Professor, without tenure
Eisbruch, Avraham, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology,
with tenure
Elner, Victor M., from Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, to Professor, with
tenure, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pathology, without tenure
Ethier, Stephen P., from Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure, and from Assistant Professor to Professor of Environmental and Industrial
Health, without tenure
Faerber, Gary J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Fessler, Jeffrey A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine,
without tenure
Foster, Carol M., from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with
tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Fuller, Robert S., from Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
Geisser, Michael E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Rehabilitation
Psychology, with tenure
Ghaziuddin, Mohammad, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with
tenure
Glover, Thomas W., from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with
tenure, to Professor, with tenure, and from Associate Professor of Human Genetics,
without tenure, to Professor, without tenure
Goodsitt, Mitchell G., from Associate Professor of Radiological Sciences, without tenure, to
Professor, with tenure
Gorski, Jerome L., from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with
tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Haefner, Hope K., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
with tenure
Hayward, Rodney A., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
Hinshaw, Daniel B., from Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Iannettoni, Mark D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Kaminski, Mark S., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
Kulik, Thomas J., from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with
tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Liberzon, Israel, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure
Ludomirsky, Achiahu, Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, awarded
tenure
McCune, William J., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
McKeever, Paul E., from Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, to Professor, with
tenure
Merajver, Sofia D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine,
with tenure
Mosca, Ralph S., from Assistant to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Muraszko, Karin M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, without
tenure
Ninfa, Alexander J., from Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
Platt, Joel F., from Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Raphael, Yehoash, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology,
with tenure
Robins, Diane M., from Associate Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
Robins, Lynne S., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Medical Education,
without tenure
Sanda, Martin G., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure and
from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure
305




May Meeting, 1999


Shreve, Paul D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with
tenure
Shulkin, Barry L., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor
of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Smith, David C., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with
tenure, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure
Stevens, Martin J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine,
with tenure
Tandon, Rajiv, from Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Teitelbaum, Daniel H., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Uberti, Joseph P., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with
tenure
Warren, Jeffrey S., from Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, to Professor, with
tenure
School of Music
Chodacki, Deborah, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music (Clarinet), with
tenure
Daugherty, Michael, from Associate Professor of Music (Composition), with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
Genne, Beth, Associate Professor of Dance, awarded tenure
Halsted, Margo, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music (Campanology),
with tenure
Herseth, Freda, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music (Voice), with tenure
Shipps, Stephen, from Associate Professor of Music (Violin), with tenure, to Professor, with
tenure
Skelton, John L., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music (Piano), with
tenure
Whiting, Steven M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music (Musicology),
with tenure
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Grandison, Kenrick I., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Landscape
Architecture, with tenure
Rabe, Barry G., from Associate Professor of Environmental Politics, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
Wondolleck, Julia M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Natural Resources,
with tenure
College of Pharmacy
Gaither, Caroline A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pharmacy
Administration, with tenure
School of Public Health
Chernew, Michael E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Health Management
and Policy, with tenure
Foxman, Betsy, from Associate Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, to Professor, with
tenure
Geronimus, Arline T., from Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education,
with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Goodsitt, Mitchell G., from Associate Professor of Radiological Health, without tenure, to
Professor, with tenure
Hayward, Rodney A., from Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, without
tenure, to Professor, without tenure
Lin, Xihong, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure
Wilson, Mark J., Associate Professor of Epidemiology, awarded tenure
School of Public Policy
Mackie-Mason, Jeffrey K., from Associate Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, to
Professor, without tenure
Dearborn campus. Chancellor Renick submitted nine recommendations
for promotion from the Dearborn campus, noting that they had undergone a


306




May Meeting, 1999


review process similar to that conducted on the Ann Arbor campus. He
reviewed the case of one of the faculty members as exemplary of the faculty's
quality and contribution.
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Hull, Brooks B., from Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Naik, Vaman, from Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Thomas, John C., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure
Waung, Marie, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure
School of Education
Beyer, Bonnie M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, with tenure
College of Engineering and Computer Science
Chen, Yubao, from Associate Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering,
with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Cherng, John G., from Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, to
Professor, with tenure
Shaout, Adnan K., from Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with
tenure, to Professor, with tenure
School of Management
Kumar, Kamalesh, from Associate Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, to
Professor, with tenure
Rossin, Donald F., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Operations Management,
with tenure
Flint campus. Chancellor Schmoll submitted seven recommendations
for promotion from the Flint Campus, noting also that the review process
was similar to the      others.   She reviewed the      cases of each    of the
recommendations.
College of Arts and Sciences
Barnett, Robert W., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English, with tenure
Bolton, Mark W., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music, with tenure
Brown, William B., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure
Freedman, Eric G., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, with
tenure
Repic, Randall, Repic, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Earth and Resource
Science, with tenure
Rosenthal, Judy V., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anthropology, with
tenure
Sipowska, Jadwiga T., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Newman, the
Regents unanimously approved the promotion recommendations.
Resolution for Vice President Hartford
President Bollinger called on Regent Newman, who read the following
resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan congratulate and commend
Maureen A. Hartford, vice president for student affairs, as she leaves
the University to become the first female president of Meredith College,
the largest private women's college in the Southeast.
Vice President Hartford has provided insightful and visionary
leadership to the Division of Student Affairs and discerning counsel to
the Regents and three presidents. Shortly after arriving in Ann Arbor
307




May Meeting, 1999


in 1992, Vice President Hartford gamely immersed herself in campus
life by moving into a residence hall for a week. Although her personal
South Quad living-learning community experience included flood and
fire - running water from leaking plumbing and smoke from a small
fire - Vice President Hartford displayed fortitude, calmness, and
personal warmth that have characterized her relationship with
students, colleagues, and Regents throughout her tenure.
Vice President Hartford has skillfully assessed and addressed
students' needs - from launching Welcome Week for new students to
promoting community service and leadership with the Center for
Learning Through Community Service and Michigan Leadership
Initiatives. She expanded the nationally recognized Program on
Intergroup Relations, Conflict and Community, and also expanded
living-learning communities in the residence halls. Vice President
Hartford took on the considerable challenge of creating Michigan's
first student code of conduct and established a cohesive policy on
alcohol and other drugs.
The Regents extend their deepest appreciation to Maureen A.
Hartford for her distinguished service as vice president for student
affairs and extend warmest best wishes to her as she returns to her
home state of North Carolina to become president of Meredith College.
Regent Newman also expressed appreciation to Jay Hartford for his
service to the University as an associate vice president for development. A
round of applause and standing ovation followed. Vice President Hartford
noted that her professional life at Michigan has always been closely tied with
students, and that she has always cared deeply about them. She observed
that there had been a complete turnover in the executive and Regental
leadership since she arrived seven years ago, and said she believed that the
leadership team has become even stronger than it was when she came. She
expressed her thanks to staff in the Office of Student Affairs and to all
present.
Regent Maynard left the meeting at this point, at about 10:00 a.m.
CESF Report-Ann Arbor Campus
Professor Scott Masten, chair of the Committee on the Economic Status
of the Faculty, noted that there were two areas of emphasis identified by the
committee. The first is the challenge to the University created by escalating
competition for faculty, which leads to large discrepancies in salaries among
faculty of similar rank and accomplishments. The second is the need to
establish a University compensation policy. This would open up the process
so that faculty will know how salary decisions are made, and it would also
ensure that compensation decisions, which involve a good deal of discretion,
are based on legitimate rationales.
CESF Report-Flint Campus
Professor Mark Perry, chair of the Committee on the Economic Status
of the Faculty at the UM-Flint, observed that average faculty salary increases


308




May Meeting, 1999


on the Flint campus have been less than the rate of inflation for the past five
years. This is of most concern at the assistant professor level, as it affects
the ability to recruit new faculty. He also reported that average faculty
salaries at all levels at UM-Flint rank last compared to its nine peer public
institutions in Michigan. Professor Perry also noted that for the past five
years, assistant professor salary increases at UM-Flint have ranked last in
comparison to both national and Michigan peer institutions. He gave an
example from the Department of Economics of how the below-average
assistant professor salary level on the Flint campus made it very difficult to
recruit a new faculty member.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President and Secretary Tedesco submitted the minutes
of the April 15-16, 1999, meeting.
Reports.   Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports of
Investment and Plant Extension. He noted that Jackie McClain, executive
director of human resources and affirmative action, would be leaving the
University to become vice chancellor for human resources of the California
State University system.
Regent McGowan expressed her thanks to Ms. McClain, noting that she
had brought state-of-the-art procedures and policies to the Office of Human
Resources and Affirmative Action and that she had been very effective,
always operating with a sense of fairness. She also noted that Ms. McClain
had served in an important advisory role to the Board of Regents on a
number of occasions, and expressed appreciation and good wishes to her on
behalf of the Board.
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that he and Provost Cantor
would be appointing a committee to conduct a national search for her
successor.
Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects Established for
April 1999, noting that the number of awards and funding amounts were
both higher than at this point in 1998.
University of Michigan Health System Report. Executive Vice
President Omenn observed that clinical operations were being tracked very
closely, and that the Health System was in good financial condition. He
noted that year 2000 goals were expected to be completed in a timely fashion
and under the budget that had been allocated. He observed that the Medical
School's Sesquicentennial Celebration was ongoing and announced several
upcoming events planned in conjunction with this observance. Finally, he
stated that positive changes were occurring in the operation of M-Care under
the direction of Ms. Zelda Geyer-Sylvia.
Regent Newman reiterated her request for a presentation to the Board
about Health System space needs planning.
Regent Deitch commented that it was a remarkable achievement that
the Health System would achieve a profit on operations. He recalled that


309




May Meeting, 1999


creating the position of executive vice president for medical affairs to oversee
the Health System had been done in an attempt to preserve the enterprise
and noted that the current positive status was a credit to Executive Vice
President Omenn and Health System physicians and staff. Regent Newman
expressed agreement with Regent Deitch's comments.
Executive Vice President Omenn thanked the Board for its support and
observed that the current state of affairs in the Health System was due to a
team effort.
Student Affairs Report. Vice President Hartford observed that Dr.
Caeser M. Briefer, director of University Health Service, would be retiring at
the end of June and would be replaced on an interim basis by Dr. Robert
Winfield. Vice President Hartford also commented that there would be no
action request with regard to the University Health Service fee for 1999-2000
because no increase was being requested.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted the monthly
report of Voluntary Support. She commented on the recent announcement
of the Ford Motor Company pledge of $9.3 million over the next five years,
noting that to date this was their largest commitment to any University, as
well as to the University of Michigan.
Andrew Abel, Ann Arbor
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics............ $  7,000
Arthur E. Ahlgrim Estate
4,245 shares of Bank One Corporation common stock
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.................... 220,607
ALCOA Corporate Center, New Kensington, Pennsylvania
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Summer Projects Fund
in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering..... 16,000
ALCOA, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for research in the School of Engineering, at the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn...................................................  20,000
Allied Signal Foundation, Inc., Morristown, New Jersey
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute and other support in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering.......... 100,000
A.L.S. Association, Woodland Hills, California
for research in the Medical School...............................  11,647
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts........................................................  162,988
American Chemical Society, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 55,000
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School................................  50,000
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for support in the College of Pharmacy.................................. 13,750
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research  in the Medical School......................................  62,500
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for  W U O M...........................................................  5,000
Anonymous Donor
for the University Musical Society......................................  25,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Medical School............................. 50,000
Virginia L. Arnold Estate
for the Harry D. and Bessie D. Solomon Scholarship in the Department
of Athletics, for the Lloyd H. Arnold and Virginia L. Arnold Scholarship
in the School of Music, for the Lloyd H. Arnold and Harry D. and Bessie D.
Solomon Research Fund in the Medical School and for the Virginia L.
Arnold Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 377,822


310




May Meeting, 1999


Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School.....................................  139,083
Association of American Colleges, Washington, DC
for the Community Service Learning Fund................................ 8,000
Azalea Foundation, St. Simons Island, Georgia
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000
BCBSM Foundation, Detroit
for research in the Medical School and the Institute of Gerontology......... 173,645
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
176 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  19,910
Betz Industries, Grand Rapids
for special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.............. 5,000
E. Barbara Boger Trust
for research in the Medical School...................................... 10,000
Boston Scientific Corporation, Natick, Massachusetts
for research in the Medical School......................................  6,000
Briarwood Mall Office, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Edmund B. Brownell, Flint
for ophthalmology research in the Medical School......................... 15,000
Florence L. Brownfain, Bloomfield Hills
648 shares of RJR Nabisco Corporation common stock
for the Mardigian Library at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........... 15,815
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Durham, North Carolina
for research in the College of Engineering and the Medical School........... 80,500
David E. A. Carson, Bridgeport, Connecticut
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.................... 5,000
Centocor, Inc., Malvern, Pennsylvania
for scholarships in the School of Information.............................. 5,000
Championship Auto Racing Auxiliary, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the James P. Chapman Endowed Memorial Scholarship in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................  10,800
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School................................   45,000
Citicorp Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts................................       8,260
Citizens Bank, Flint
for W FUM-TV..................................                   7,500
Client Business Services, Inc., Fort Myers, Florida
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute............                                       5,000
Coleman Powermate Compressors, Inc., Kearney, Nebraska
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Summer Projects Fund
in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering..... 16,000
Council for Tobacco Research-U.S.A., Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  37,500
Ronnie M. Cresswell, Ann Arbor
70 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center,
for the University Hospitals, and for the University Musical Society......... 10,658
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the Medical School...............................     8,625
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for the EIC Building Fund, the School of Engineering Building Fund
and other support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................. 21,990
Davidson Kempner Advisers, Inc., New York, New York
for the Sally Michelson Davidson Professorship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................  100,000
Dayton Hudson Corporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and
for Career Planning and Placement support.....................      30,000
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for ice hockey support in the Department of Athletics...................... 12,500
Deloitte & Touche Consulting Group, Hermitage, Tennessee
for the University Musical Society..................................... 5,000
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program, Inc., Detroit
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering......... 96,800


311




May Meeting, 1999


Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering, and
for the Nichols Arboretum Visitor Center............................... 30,000
Detroit Public Television, Detroit
for W FUM -TV.....................................................  6,800
Thomas A. Duke, North Palm Beach, Florida
for support in the Medical School....................................... 25,000
Edison International, Rosemead, California
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Electronic Data Systems, Piano, Texas
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering, and
for scholarships at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................. 11,402
Engle Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sylvia "Duffy" Engle Graduate Student Fellowship in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 7,500
Shirley S. Fage Estate
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,235
Federal-Mogul Corporation, Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering, and for human factors
research in the Transportation Research Institute......................... 20,000
Ferndale Laboratories, Inc., Ferndale
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  29,000
Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Dr. Samuel D. Harris Endowed Collegiate Professorship in
the School of Dentistry, for the Ronald P. and Joan M. Nordgren
Endowed Heart Research Fund in the Medical School and for
other support at the University of Michigan............................. 111,950
George S. Fischler Estate
for the George S. Fischler Scholarship in the School of B
usiness Administration, and for support in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 1,260,468
Russell H. Fiske, Sr., Richmond, Virginia
460 shares of Colgate-Palmolive Company common stock
for the Center of Cognitive Function Fund in the School of Nursing, and
for support in the College of Pharmacy.................................. 43,106
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research and other support in the College of Engineering, and for
research in the School of Information................................ 110,500
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  25,000
Freudenberg-Nok, Plymouth
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute..................................... 7,500
James R. Gaines, Lafayette, Colorado
for the Karsten Prager Fund for International Reporting in the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............               5,000
Genentech Foundation for Growth & Development, Charlottesville, Virginia
for research  in  the Medical School......................................  20,000
General Motors Corporation, Canada Group, Warren
for the Chevrolet Collegiate Scholarship..................................  6,000
Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the Research Center for Group Dynamics in the Institute for
Social Research.......................................................  5,000
Howard J. Gourwitz, Bloomfield Hills
715 shares of TLC The Laser Center, Inc., common stock
for the Marching Band Scholarship and other support in the
School of M usic......................................................  25,919
Grand Rapids Foundation, Grand Rapids
for research in the School of Social Work................................. 67,330
Rose M. Gstoettner Estate
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund and the Heart Care
Philanthropy Fund in the Medical School............................... 177,230
Herman Family Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Karen Herman Visitor's Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.......                                           5,000
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  7,500
312




May Meeting, 1999


Hitachi, Brisbane, California
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 40,000
James and Lynelle Holden Fund, Troy
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School.. 50,000
Robert L. Hooker, Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund and other support in
the School of Business Administration.................................... 5,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School......................................  41,500
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint............................ 9,000
Hydro Aluminum, Adrian
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,000
IBM Canada, Markham, Ontario, Canada
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 25,000
IGI, Inc., Nashua, New Hampshire
for research in the College of Pharmacy..................................  15,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for support in the College of Engineering.................................  5,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 75,000
James R. Irwin, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society......................................  22,500
J. W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation, Sierra Madre, California
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 50,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health.............................. 303,667
Stanley E. Johnson, Fort Myers, Florida
74 shares of BankAmerica Corporation common stock
for support of the Law School........................ 5,455
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School......................................  43,535
Kalamazoo Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics,
for the F. Conrad Fischer Fund and other support in the School of
Business Administration and for the Karen Herman Visitor's Fund
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 48,750
A. T. Kearney, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
W.M. Keck Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Biomolecular Recognition Program.............................. 500,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Nursing, and for the Kellogg Public
Policy Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.... 176,521
Helen V. Kew Trust
for support in  the Medical School......................................  109,040
Key Bank Ann Arbor
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.......... 5,000
Kitch, Drutchas, Wagner &Kenney, P.C., Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Chu Yong Lee, Seoul, Korea
for Korean Studies support in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts.........................................................  20,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Summer Projects Fund in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering........... 16,000
Lincoln National Life Foundation, Inc., Fort Wayne, Indiana
for support in the School of Business Administration..................... 150,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 100,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Institute for Social Research, and the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................  476,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  Arts......................................................  44,163
Edward and Helen Mardigian Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for Armenian Studies support in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts..........................................................  5,000
313




May Meeting, 1999


Masco Corporation, Taylor
for special events support at the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane,
the University of Michigan-Dearborn and for the University Musical Society... 6,350
Mazda Distributors Great Lakes, Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund and other support in the
School of Business Administration.......................................  5,000
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Dexter
300 shares of Ben & Jerry's Homemade common stock
for the Research in College Teaching and Learning Fund in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................  6,956
McKinley Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the University Musical Society......................................  14,150
John R. McWilliams, Ann Arbor
for the Beth McWilliams Scholarship in the School of Information............ 5,000
Meijer, Inc., Grand Rapids
for WFUM and WUOM....................................               5,609
Merck & Company, Inc., West Point, Pennsylvania
for support m the Medical School, and for the Asthma Management and
Prevention Fund in the School of Public Health........................... 21,000
Frank G. Merz Estate
for support in the School of Dentistry, in memory of Dr. Frank Merz......... 20,000
Philip C. Metzger Silver Springs, Maryland
for the Sarah E. Metzger Memorial Scholarship in the School of Music....... 15,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for support in the School of Information, and for the Undergraduate
Research Opportunities Program in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts........................................................  102,000
Donn B. Miller, Beverly Hills, California
991 shares of Schering-Plough Corporation common stock
for support of the Law  School..........................................  50,913
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Mitsubishi Motors America, Inc., Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute....................................................  20,000
Monroe Street Journal, Ann Arbor
for the Monroe Street Journal Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration........................ 10,000
Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts........................ 89,000
National Psoriasis Foundation, Portland, Oregon
for research in the Medical School............................        40,000
Herbert E. Neil, Jr., Deerfield, Illinois
for the Joan Nelson and Herbert E. Neil, Jr., Scholarship in
the  School of Education................................................  5,000
Cecil J. Nesbitt, Ann Arbor
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................  20,000
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Westmont, Illinois
for the Center for Excellence Fund in the School of Dentistry............... 25,000
Northrop Grumman, Baltimore, Maryland
for the Bipolar Transistors Fund in the College of Engineering.............. 50,000
Kevin J. O'Connor, New York, New York
8,333 shares of DoubleClick, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Engineering.............................. 1,302,031
Panasonic Technologies, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the College of Engineering................................ 20,000
Marion L. Parkhurst, Dearborn
for the Kenneth and Marion Parkhurst Natural Areas Fellowship
at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................. 11,000
Margaret L. Sherman Peet Unitrust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 17,522
Pfizer, Inc., New York New York
for the Pfizer Fellowship in Pharmaceutics in the College of
Pharmacy, and for support in the School of Public Health.................. 20,000
Pharmaceutical Research Manufacturers of America, Washington, DC
for research in the College of Pharmacy................................... 6,500


314




May Meeting, 1999


Pharmacia and Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for employee matching gifts............................................  10,505
Philip Morris Companies, New York, New York
for the Philip Morris Book Project Fund in the School of Education,
and for employee matching gifts...............................     55,300
Wilbur K. Pierpont, Ann Arbor
for the  Clements Library...............................................  5,000
James H. Poppy, Hailey, Idaho
3,000 shares of Fleet Financial Group, Inc., common stock
for the S. Behrman Collegiate Professorship in Reproductive
Medicine in the Medical School............................... 133,406
Martha and James Poppy Fund, Clifton Park, New York
for the S. Behrman Collegiate Professorship in Reproductive
Medicine in  the Medical School.........................................  27,646
Praxair, Inc., Pinckney
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute... 7,500
Prentice Foundation, Westport, Connecticut
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.......... 15,000
Price Waterhouse LLP, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Public Radio International, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for  W U O M..........................................................  12,500
John A. Pursley, Lock Haven, Pennsylvania
for the John A. Pursley Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering............................ 10,000
Roche Laboratories, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey
for research and other support in the Medical School....................... 5,750
Ronald W. Rosenberg, Birmingham
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.......... 5,000
Anna Lou Johnston Roth Estate
for the Anna Lou Johnston Roth Scholarship in the School of Education.... 1,400,000
Alma Ruppenthal, Grosse Pointe
for the Henry Ruppenthal Family Professorship in the Medical School....... 40,000
Rena Ruppenthal, Grosse Pointe
for the Henry Ruppenthal Family Professorship in the Medical School....... 20,000
SAE International, Warrendale, Pennsylvania
for the Seating Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation
Research  Institute.............................................  70,000
Santen Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Osaka, Japan
for ophthalmology research in the Medical School......................... 60,000
Helen S. Schaefer, Tucson, Arizona
234 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock
for the Helen Schwarz Schaefer Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  19,159
Schering-Plough Research Institute, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School......................................  25,000
Madeleine T. Schneider, Ann Arbor
for the Richard C. Schneider M.D., Neurosurgery Research
Endowment in the Medical School..................................... 100,000
Tadd & Nancy Seitz Fund, Clifton Park, New York for support in the
School of Business Administration.......................................  5,000
Stuart E. Sheill Trust
for the Stuart and Jane Sheill Scholarship in the School of Music............ 24,426
Jack H. Shuler, Naples, Florida
73 shares of Comerica, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Jack H. Shuler Fund in the Law School and for the
Comprehensive Cancer Center, in memory of Lorne MacDonald.............. 5,151
SmithKline Beecham, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............. 10,000
Dorothy Spear Trust
for research in the Medical School......................................  82,881
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education, the Institute for Social Research
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................... 134,300
Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering and for special events
support at the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of
Michigan-Dearborn...........................................      18,050


315




May Meeting, 1999


Peter 0. Steiner, Ann Arbor
183 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Peter 0. Steiner Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................  19,455
Luther S. Stewart Estate
for support of the Law  School..........................................  20,000
Sun Microsystems, Inc., Palo Alto, California
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.....................................................  7,500
Jack D. and Margaret D. Sweet, Richardson, Texas
for the Ralph W. Aigler Professorship in the Law School.................. 300,000
G. Dekle Taylor, Jacksonville, Florida
356 shares of Emerson Electric Company common stock
for support in the Medical School and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the Arts................................................  19,180
Noel M. Tichy, Ann Arbor
for the Global Business Partnership Program in the School of
Business Administration........................................      18,488
R. J. Tower Corporation, Greenville
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute................................................... 5,000
Trim Sales & Engineering, Inc., Dearborn
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the
M edical School.......................................................  10,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute..................................  10,000
A. Kirk Twiss, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration.............. 5,000
Union Pacific Foundation, Omaha, Nebraska
for student aid in the School of Business Administration................... 11,000
United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in Rabbinic
Literature in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 20,000
University of Michigan Club of Detroit Scholarship Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for the University of Michigan Club of Detroit Scholarship.................. 8,534
University Renal Research & Education Association, Ann Arbor
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  26,000
Varsity Ford, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............. 10,800
C. Lynn Vendien Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 10,000
Versacom, Inc., Dearborn
for the Armenian Studies Program in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for special events support at the Henry
Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.............. 6,050
Carol L. Vogel, Topeka, Kansas
for support in  the Medical School........................................  7,500
Patricia M. Walsh Trust
for the Distinguished Teaching Award Fund in the School
of  N ursing..........................................................  20,408
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School, and for research in the College
of Pharm acy........................................................  113,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the University Musical Society, and for employee matching gifts.......... 13,723
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Peter M. Wege Professorship of Sustainable Systems in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment....................... 125,000
Charles D. Weir, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 10,000
Jerry A. Weisbach, Ann Arbor
130 shares of Comcast Special common stock
for the Jerry A. and Elise A. Weisbach Symposium Fund in the
Medical School, and for the University Musical Society...................... 8,523
Frank T. Westover, Lake Forest, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration.15,000


316




May Meeting, 1999


Sidney J. Winer, West Bloomfield
400 shares of Abbott Laboratories common stock
for the Sidney J. Winer Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  20,175
Robert I. Wishnick Foundation, New York, New York
for the Judy and Simeon Brinberg Travel Award Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 5,000
Wolverine Temporaries, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Music, and for the University
M usical Society......................................................  17,000
Steven E. Yavers, New York, New York
for support in the Division.of Kinesiology................................. 5,000
Bruce Zenkel, White Plains, New York
for the Zenkel Minority Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.................................................  20,000
Zenkel Foundation, White Plains, New York
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics, for
the Lois and Bruce Zenkel Faculty Lounge Fund in the School
of Business Administration and for the Zenkel Minority Scholarship
in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 45,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Darryl Baird, Grand Blanc
seventy-six books for the University of Michigan-Flint Frances Willson Thompson
Library
BSB Manufacturing, Ltd., Stoney Creek, Ontario, Canada
machining of brake discs for the Solar Car Team
Benjamin Lev, West Bloomfield
seventy books for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Mardigian Library
Kim Levin, New York, New York
research archives of Aaron Levin for the Physics Department
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
three Dell computers with monitors for the Department of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science
SPS Technologies, Salt Lake City, Utah
titanium nuts, collars and socket head screws for the Solar Car Team
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors
Dale E. Austin, Milan
John Garner, Rochester Hills        Byron D. Ruppel, Hammond, Oregon
Merle Arnt Haanes, West Bloomfield  Wang Liming, New York, New York
George W. Panagos, Dearborn Heights  Kenneth B. West, Flint
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted a number of personnel
actions. Vice President Ulaby pointed out the appointment of Robert F.
Todd III as associate vice president for research. Executive Vice President
Omenn called attention to the appointment of Allen S. Lichter as dean of the
Medical School, and President Bollinger noted the appointment of E. Royster
Harper as interim vice president for student affairs.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Duff, Michael J., Ph.D., Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Kaplan, Bruce, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 1, 1999
Porter, Amy, M.M., Associate Professor of Music (Flute), School of Music
Trela, Dale J., Ph.D., Professor of English, with tenure, and Dean, UM-Flint College of Arts
and Sciences, August 1, 1999-June 30, 2004


317




May Meeting, 1999


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1999-May 31, 2006
Hermansson, S6ren, Associate Professor of Music (Horn), School of Music
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Borders, James M., Associate Dean of Graduate Studies, School of Music, September 1, 1999 -June 30, 2002
Johnston, Robert E., Chair, Navy Officer Education Program, Office of Associate Provost for
Academic Affairs, one year term, August 1, 1999
Roel, Richard W., Associate Dean, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, two
month term, July 1, 1999
Yee, Albert F., Chair, Department of Materials Science and Engineering, College of
Engineering, three year term, July 1, 1999
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective May 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Anderson, Donald, Chair, Department of Social Sciences, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, three year term, July 1, 1999
Brosius, Frank C., III, Associate Professor of Physiology, without tenure, Medical School
Cho, Kathleen R., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School
Katehi, Linda P. B., from Associate Dean for Graduate Education to Associate Dean for
Academic Affairs, College of Engineering, five year term, September 1, 1999
Levine, Daniel H., Chair, Department of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, four year term, July 1, 1999
Loveland-Charry, Carol J., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Nursing, three
year term, July 1, 1999
O'Donnell, Matthew, Chair, Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering,
five year term, September 1, 1999
Wise, Kensall D., Associate Dean for Research, College of Engineering, five year term,
September 1, 1999
Zitzewitz, Paul, Chair, Department of Natural Sciences, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, three year term, July 1, 1999
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Briggs, Josephine P., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of
Physiology, without tenure, Medical School, government service leave extended,
May 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Collins, Francis S., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Human
Genetics, without tenure, government service leave extended, April 4, 1999-April 3, 2000
Cs6rgo, Sandor, Professor of Statistics, with tenure, personal leave extended, September 1, 1999 -May 31, 2000
Gurevich, Yuri, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, scholarly activity leave extended, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Moss, Thylias, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, duty off campus
leave extended, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Vicinus, Martha J., Eliza M. Mosher Distinguished University Professor, Professor of
English and Women's Studies, with tenure, and Professor of History, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus leave extended,
September 1-December 31, 1999


318




May Meeting, 1999


ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective June 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Establishing Professorships
Mary Lou Willard French Professorship in Nursing, School of Nursing, three year renewable
term
Robert and Barbara Luciano Professorship in Law, Law School, five year renewable term
Kevin and Nancy O'Connor Professorship in Computer Science, College of Engineering, five
year renewable term
Wilbur K. Pierpont Collegiate Professorship of Leadership in Management Education, School
of Business Administration, five year renewable term, July 1, 1999
Chaucey Stillman Professorship for Ethics, Morality, and the Practice in Law, Law School,
five year renewable term
Marshall M. Weinberg Endowed Distinguished Visiting Professorship in Philosophy, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointments to Established Professorships
Bhattacharya, Pallab K., James R. Mellor Professor of Engineering, College of Engineering,
five year term, September 1, 1999
Carson, Anne, Norman Freehling Visiting Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, four month term, September 1, 1999
Herr, Moshe D., Jean and Samuel Frankel Professor of Rabbinic Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 15, 1999-May 15, 2000
Tapia, James R., Donald R. Shepherd Chair in Conducting, School of Music, four year term,
September 1, 1999
Reappointments to Established Professorships
Ginsburg, David, Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Professor in Medicine, Medical School, five
year term, July 1, 1999
Lowe, John B., Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Professor in Medicine, Medical School, five
year term, July 1, 1999
Other Transactions
Harper, E. Royster, from Senior Associate Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of
Students, Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs, to Interim Vice President for
Student Affairs, Office of the President, June 8, 1999
Lichter, Allen S., from Interim Dean, Medical School, to Dean, Medical School, five year
term, May 1, 1999
Todd, Robert F., III, Associate Vice President for Research, Office of the Vice President for
Research, three year term, May 24, 1999
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Ann Arbor Summer Festival, Inc.
Cole, Philip, retroactive appointment, October 1, 1998-September 30, 2001
Malcolm, Judith W., retroactive appointment, October 1, 1998-September 30, 2001
Reece, James S., retroactive appointment, October 1, 1998-September 30, 2001
Peters, Helen A., retroactive reappointment, October 1, 1998-September 30, 1999
Schriber, Thomas J., retroactive reappointment, October 1, 1998-September 30, 1999
College of Engineering Executive Committee
England, Anthony W., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2003, vice Linda B. Katehi, term expiring
Division of Kinesiology Executive Committee
Borer, Katarina T., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001, vice Joyce I. Lindeman, term expiring
Kuntzelman, Charles T., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000, vice Bruce A. Watkins, unable to serve
Maloy, Bernard P., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001, vice Victor L. Katch, term expiring


319




May Meeting, 1999


School of Public Policy Executive Committee
Dominguez, Kathryn M., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001, vice Mary E. Corcoran, term expiring
Hall, Richard L., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001, vice Robert M. Stern, term expiring
School of Social Work Executive Committee
Lockery, Shirley A., September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002, vice Lorraine M. Gutierrez, term expiring
Danziger, Sandra K., September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002, vice Richard M. Tolman, term
expiring
Personnel reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF CLINICAL FACULTY, PRIMARY RESEARCH SCIENTISTS,
AND REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Acosta-Hughes, Benjamin B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Anderson, Jami L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Anzai, Yoshimi, M.D., Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 1999 -June 30, 2000
Baird, Theodore J., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 1-June 30, 1999
Gushing, Simon S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Forauer, Andrew R., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical School,
June 28, 1999-June 27, 2000
Kalemmkerian, Gregory, M.D., Clinical Associate Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical
School, April 1, 1999-March 31, 2001
Kimball, Miles S., Senior Research Scientist, Center for Political Studies, Institute for Social
Research, September 1, 1999
Klein, Katherine A., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Kollman, Kenneth W., Senior Associate Research Scientist, Survey Research Center, Institute
for Social Research, September 1, 1999
Lemon, Alaina, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Morrison, Sean, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 1999-August 31, 2000
Raoof, Ameed, Ph.D., Lecturer in Anatomy and Cell Biology, Medical School, July 1, 1999 -June 30, 2002
Ross, Deborah P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Latin Pedagogy, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Smith, Randall R., M.M., Assistant Professor of Music (Voice), School of Music,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2003
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF CLINICAL FACULTY, PRIMARY RESEARCH SCIENTISTS
AND REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Anderson, Robert M., from Senior Associate Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist,
Medical School
Blow, Fredric C., from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Medical School and from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research
Scientist, University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute
Bockenstedt, Paula L., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II
of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Corblath, Wayne T., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Ophthalmology and from Clinical Assistant II to Clinical Associate Professor II of Neurology
320




May Meeting, 1999


Couper, Michael, from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research
Fowlkes, J. Brian, from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Medical School, Medical School
Hurwitz, Martin E., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Jibson, Michael D., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Psychiatry, Medical School
Johnston, Carolyn M., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II
of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School
Pituch, Kenneth J., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Punch, Margaret R., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School
Quint, Elisabeth Hi., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School
Rine, Nicholas J., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Professor II of Law, Law School
Selwa, Linda M., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Neurology, Medical School
Shope, Jean T., from Senior Associate Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, University
of Michigan Transportation Research Institute
Song, Julie H., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical School,
July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
van de Ven, Cosmas J. M., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor
II of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School
Wald, John J., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Neurology, Medical School
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Castor, C. William, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medial School,
September 1, 1998-August 31, 2000
Clark, Walter H., Associate Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Counsell, Raymond E., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School,
September 1, 1998-June 30, 2000
Curtis, George C., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, Medical School, July 1, 1999 -June 30, 2000
Greenberg, G. Robert, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, July 1, 1999 -June 30, 2000
Hermalin, Albert I., Professor Emeritus of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, August 1-December 31, 1999
Juni, Elliot, Professor Emeritus of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School,
September 1, 1998-August 31, 2000
Sullivan, Joseph E., Associate Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering, May 1, 1999-August 31, 1.999
Weber, Wendell W., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School, August 1, 1998 -June 30, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Ball, Arnetha F., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1999-may 31, 2000
Berkove, Lawrence I., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Blane, Caroline E., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, extended sick leave,
May 9-August 20, 1999


321




May Meeting, 1999


Cherry, John F., Professor of Classical Archaeology and Greek, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Crawford, David E., Professor of Music, with tenure, School of Music, scholarly activity
leave, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Gikandi, Simon E., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Gunning, Sandra R., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
and Associate Professor of American Studies, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Hershkowitz, Debra, Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, personal leave, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Hyde-Hoff, Donna L., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, extended sick leave, April 2 -May 19, 1999
Konigsberg, Ira, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of
Film and Video Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
Loeb, Roger C., Professor of Psychology, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1999
McGrath, Marianne P., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of
Arts and Sciences, family care medical leave, January 1-March 31, 1999
Modigliani, Andre, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Nystuen, John D., Professor of Urban Geography and Planning, with tenure, College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, retirement furlough, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Pearson, Sheryl S., Associate Professor of English Language, Literature, and
Communciations, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Pedraza, Silvia, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Porter, David L., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature and Assistant
Professor of Comparative Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Rose, Sonya O., Professor of History, with tenure, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and
Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Rosenthal, Marilynn M., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1999
Snyder, James C., Associate Dean and Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, with
tenure, College of Architecture and Urban Planning, administrative leave,
July 1-December 31, 1999
Tinkle, Theresa L., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Associate Professor of English, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 1999 -May 31, 2000
Wandera, Ruth A., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, extended
sick leave, March 31-April 11, 1999
Waung, Marie P., Assistant Professor of Psychology, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1999-April 430, 2000
Whatley, Warren C., Professor of Economics and Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, personal leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Wiley, Roland J., Professor of Music (Musicology), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
CORRECTIONS TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Lewis, Edith A., Associate Professor of Social work and Women's Studies, with tenure,
extended sick leave, January 22-December 31, 1999 (previously reported as
January 22-May 31, 1999
Rycus, Mitchell J., Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, retirement furlough October 3, 1997-May 31, 2000
(previously reported as October 3, 1997-June 1, 2000)


322




May Meeting, 1999


CANCELLATION OF
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Gonzalez, Maria, Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, medical
leave canceled (previously reported as March 6-April 30, 1999)
TERMINATIONS
Effective May 31, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Resigned
Bierwert, Crisca, Assistant Professor of Anthropology,, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, April 1, 1999
Crimmins, Mark D., Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Daval, Charles J. C., Professor of Music (Trumpet), with tenure, School of Music
Dries, David J., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, March 31, 1999
Greenfield, L. John, Jr., Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical School
Hanson, Ann E., Professor of Greek and Latin, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Huber, John D., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Jager, Todd J., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, April 31, 1998
Kon, Stanely J., Professor of Finance, with tenure, School of Business Administration
Korszun, Anna-Krystyna, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School, and Assistant
Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, March 1, 1999
Michael, Miriam, Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, April 30, 1999
Reeser, Todd W., Lecturer III in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Sedatole, Kevin L., Donald R. Shepherd Assistant Professor of Music (Conducting and Music
Education)
Singh, Gurdev, Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, March 12, 1999
Sousounis, Peter J., Assistant Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Science, College
of Engineering, June 1, 1999
Young, Martin R., Associate Professor of Statistics and Management Science, with tenure,
School of Business Administration
Retired
Briggs, Dale E., Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering
Chou, Yu-Min, Professor of Business Economics and Finance, UM-Dearborn School of
Management, April 30, 1999
Daniel, Linda L., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing
Grew, Raymond, Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Martin, Michael M., Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Merte, Herman, Jr., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering
Milles, Stephen J., Associate Professor of Mathematics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, April 30, 1999
Mohr, Lawrence B., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, School of Public Policy
Paul, Ara G., Professor of Pharmacognosy, with tenure, and Dean Emeritus, College of
Pharmacy, April 30, 1999
Taylor, John E., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering
Taylor, Roberta C., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
Waller, Patricia F., Professor of Health Management and Policy, without tenure, School of
Public Health, April 30, 1999
West, Kenneth B., Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Woodward, John B., Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure,
College of Engineering
Term Completed
Ackermann, Marsha E., Lecturer II in American Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, June 30, 1998
Bainbridge, David R., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, August 31, 1998


323




May Meeting, 1999


Beal, Scott W., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1998
Bender, John E., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 1998
Childress, Anita G., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Cole, Michael, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts
Coleman, Sheilah L., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1998
Collins, Peter A., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Conlon, Megan R., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Dean, John C., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, June 30, 1999
Delong, Matthew E., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Dykstra, Timothy A., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Gonzalez, Maria, Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 1998
Grabiner, David J., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Granier, Aude M., Lecturer II in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1999
Gunn, Melanie E., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Jansa, Sharon A., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Mariotti, Josephine R., Lecturer II in History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, August 31, 1998
Mason, Gloria J., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
McGee, Sean H., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Morgan, Stephanie M., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Naddaf, Ali R., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, August 31, 1999
Nadkarni, Jeanne S., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, August 31, 1998
Pahre, Robert D., Assistant Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Assistant Professor of Public Policy, School of Public Policy
Parker, Maria G., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 1998
Petrini, Odette M., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Rier, Steven T., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Stewart, Timothy W., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Taylor, Petra, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts
Thrall, A. Trevor, Lecturer II in Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, June 30, 1998
Vazzana, Anthony M., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, August 31, 1998
Vondohlen, Brian K., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1998
Wahtera, Kirk A., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Worthing, Rodney A., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts


324




May Meeting, 1999


Yocum, Bradford J., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Zeleznik, W. Scott, Lecturer II in Spanish and Anthropology, Residential College, College of
Literature, and the Arts, June 30, 1998
Retirement memoirs. Vice President and Secretary Tedesco submitted
for adoption retirement memoirs for 15 faculty members.
Dale E. Briggs, Ph.D., professor of chemical engineering, will retire from
active faculty status on May 31, 1999, after a most productive career as a
teacher and researcher.
Professor Briggs received his B.Ch.E. degree in 1953 from the University of
Louisville and his M.S.E. and Ph.D. degrees in 1958 and 1968, respectively, from
the University of Michigan. Professor Briggs joined the University of Michigan
faculty as an instructor of chemical engineering in 1961. He was promoted to
assistant professor in 1968, associate professor in 1974, and professor in 1979.
Professor Briggs' research and teaching activities were diverse and included
industrial heat transfer, clean fuels from coal, and air and water pollution
control. Those activities led to a long, active role as a consultant to government
and industry. Professor Briggs was a member of the interdisciplinary College of
Engineering committee that established the Environmental Sciences and
Engineering Program, and he served as the program's chair and program
advisor from 1974-77. Under his leadership as chair, the program became an
accredited engineering program.
Professor Briggs' service to the Department of Chemical Engineering, the
College of Engineering, and the University of Michigan was extensive and
diverse. He served fifteen years as the undergraduate chemical engineering
program advisor for the College of Engineering Curriculum Committee. He
served two years as chair of the Senate Advisory Committee on University
Affairs, three terms on the Advisory Committee on Recreational Sports, two
terms on the Military Officer Education Committee, one term on the Board in
Control of Intercollegiate Athletics, and eight years as the chief marshall for
university events.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Dale E. Briggs professor emeritus of chemical engineering.
Yu-Min Chou, Ph.D., professor of business economics and finance,
retired from active faculty status on April 30, 1999, following thirty-three
years of service at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Professor Chou received his B.A. degree in 1954, his M.A. degree in 1955,
and his Ph.D. degree in 1960, all from the University of Illinois. From
1960-63, he was an assistant, then associate, professor at Baylor University
and, from 1963-66, he was an associate professor at the University of
Minnesota. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan-Dearborn in
1966 as an associate professor. He received tenure in 1967 and was promoted
to professor in 1970.
As a faculty member, Professor Chou was instrumental in developing the
economics and finance curriculum. He also published extensively in the area
of international economics and finance. He received a number of fellowships
from such organizations,as the Ford Foundation and National Science
Foundation for research at schools such as Wharton, the University of
Chicago, and Harvard University. His expertise in international economics


325




May Meeting, 1999


was critical to the Dearborn campus as the global economy became prevalent.
For decades, his scholarly work has greatly influenced both the curriculum
and students on the Dearborn campus.
Within the School of Management, Professor Chou served as chair of the
Department of Finance and Business Economics. He also served as director
of the International Business Institute within the School of Management.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming Yu-Min Chou professor emeritus of business economics and finance.
Linda L. Daniel, associate professor of nursing, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1999, after a most productive career as a teacher
and practitioner.
A native of Oklahoma, Professor Daniel received her B.S.N. degree from
the University of Oklahoma in 1964 and her M.S.N. degree from the
University of Washington in 1967. In 1969, she received a Certificate in
Medical Care from the University of Oslo in Norway. From 1964-66, Professor
Daniel was a staff public health nurse at Seattle-King County Health
Department, Seattle, Washington. From 1967-69, she was assistant professor
and chair, Community Health Nursing, University of Oklahoma School of
Nursing. She returned to service and was supervisor of public health nursing
at Oklahoma City-County Health Department from 1969-70. Professor
Daniel joined the University of Michigan in 1970 as assistant professor of
nursing and was promoted to associate professor in 1973.
Professor Daniel contributed strength and creativity to the instructional
and service initiatives in Community Health Nursing. She carried major
responsibility for the basic undergraduate course which is part of the school's
core curriculum. She also contributed significantly to the graduate program
in Community Health Nursing.
It was Professor Daniel's creative and persistent efforts that in 1991
resulted in the establishment of the North Campus Family Health Service, a
nurse-managed wellness and primary care center that delivers culturally
sensitive primary health care to University families living on North Campus.
She also initiated the National Nursing Symposium on Home Health Care
and served as its chair from 1985-97.
The Regents now salute this distinguished community health nursing
educator for her dedicated service by naming Linda L. Daniel associate
professor emerita of nursing.
Raymond Grew, Ph.D., professor of history in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on
May 31, 1999.
Born in California, Professor Grew received his A.B., A.M., and Ph.D.
degrees from Harvard University in 1951, 1952, and 1957, respectively. He
was an instructor at Brandeis University in 1957-58 and from 1958-64 he
served successively as an instructor, preceptor, and assistant professor in the
Department of History at Princeton University. He joined the faculty of the
University of Michigan as an associate professor in 1964 and was promoted to
professor in 1968. He was appointed the Hudson Professor of History in 1975
and served three times as directeur d'etudes associe at the Ecole des Hautes
Etudes en Sciences Sociales in Paris in 1976, 1987, and 1990.


326




May Meeting, 1999


Both in his own research and in his role as editor of Comparative Studies
in Society and History from 1973-97, Professor Grew developed, through his
work in French and Italian history of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries,
an approach that is both comparative and interdisciplinary. His publications
and papers on subjects as diverse as the Italian Risorgimento, education and
religion in France, the role of food in global history, and the theory and
practice of comparative history in Europe and America, have made him a
leader in the approach and development of historical studies that is not only a
social science but also an overreaching interpretation of human culture.
The influence of Professor Grew's research has been enhanced by his
continuing role in scholarly bodies in the United States and abroad. The recipient
of a number of fellowships and awards from foundations and historical societies,
he has also been active in encouraging, through critical and editorial judgment,
the scholarship of others, in a manner that is both poised and searching. In
directing and contributing to journals and international conferences, and to book
series on comparative history and on global history, he has shaped an approach to
history that is identified with Michigan and known throughout the scholarly
world.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Raymond Grew
professor emeritus of history.
Michael M. Martin, Ph.D., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and professor
of biology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from
active faculty status on May 31, 1999, following 40 years of service.
Professor Martin received his A.B. degree in 1955 from Cornell University
and his Ph.D. degree in 1958 from the University of Illinois. He joined the
University of Michigan in 1959 as an instructor in the Department of Chemistry
and was promoted to assistant professor in 1961 and associate professor in 1965.
His interests led him more and more to the interface between chemistry and
biology and in 1969 he was appointed associate professor in both departments.
In 1985, he took a full-time appointment in the Division of Biological Sciences.
He served as chair of the Division of Biological Sciences from 1982-85; associate
dean of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts from 1991-95; and
director of the LS&A Honors Program from 1997-98. His extraordinary abilities
as a teacher were recognized by his appointment as an Arthur F. Thurnau
Professor in 1996.
Through most of his career, Professor Martin has focused on the
biochemistry, physiology, and nutritional ecology of herbivorous insects. He
was a pioneer in studying the role of ingested fungi in the nutrition of
plant-eating insects, elucidating how fungal enzymes found inside the insect
gut are responsible for the ability of insects to digest cellulose. Professor
Martin's research has also been central in understanding the mechanisms by
which insects are affected by plant chemistry and has caused a basic
re-evaluation of general theories of the evolution of plant defense against
herbivores.
In performing his many administrative tasks, Professor Martin has been
a model of the scholar-administrator. His hallmark is his ability to listen with
an open mind, to balance, and then to act fairly and expeditiously. He was
instrumental in developing the popular course on writing for biologists and his
contributions to improving writing in biology were recognized by his


327




May Meeting, 1999


appointment in 1997 as a fellow of the Gayle Morris Sweetland Writing Center
of LS&A. He also received the LS&A Excellence in Education Awards in 1991,
1997, and 1998.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Michael M.
Martin professor emeritus of biology.
Herman Merte, Jr., Ph.D., professor of mechanical engineering, will
retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1999, after a distinguished career
spanning more than 40 years as an educator and scholar in the field of heat
transfer.
Professor Merte received his B.S. degree in marine engineering in 1950,
and his B.S. (1951), M.S. (1956), and Ph.D. (1960) degrees in mechanical
engineering, all from the University of Michigan. He joined the faculty in 1959
as an instructor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering. He was
promoted to assistant professor in 1960, associate professor in 1962, and
professor in 1967.
Professor Merte has carried out research and published papers on many
topics in heat transfer with emphasis on phase changes under reduced and
high gravity fields. Among these topics are dynamics of phase change, boiling,
and condensation; the study of boiling heat transfer (pool and flow) in
microgravity; and heat transfer in wire bundles. As a result of his studies, a
clearer picture is emerging on the role of buoyancy in the heat transfer
associated with boiling and condensation. Particularly interesting activities
are now taking place with pool boiling in the NASA-sponsored study of
long-term microgravity environment of the space shuttle.
Professor Merte has had a strong relationship with NASA since 1965. In
addition to experiments on several space shuttles, he has served on several
NASA committees and as a technical presenter at many NASA-sponsored
workshops and programs. He is a life fellow of the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers and he received the Distinguished Service Award of
Class 1938E. He is the co-author of Recent Developments in Boiling and
Condensation.
Within the College of Engineering, Professor Merte has served as chair of
the G. G. Brown Laboratory Operational Committee, Committee on Grading,
and Nominating Committee. In the department, he served as chair of the
Program Council/Committee and Faculty Promotion Review Committee. He
was the professor-in-charge of the Heat Transfer Laboratory for 18 years.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and scholar by
naming Herman Merte, Jr., professor emeritus of mechanical engineering.
Lawrence B. Mohr, Ph.D., professor of political science in the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts, and professor of public policy in the
School of Public Policy, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1999,
following a 33-year career at the University of Michigan.
Born in 1931, Professor Mohr earned his A.B. degree in 1951 from the
University of Chicago, and his M.P.A. and Ph.D. degrees, in 1963 and 1966,
respectively, from the University of Michigan. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty in 1966 as an assistant professor of political science and
research associate in the Institute of Public Administration. He was promoted
to associate professor in 1972 and professor in 1978. Within the institute, he


328




May Meeting, 1999


was promoted to associate research scientist in 1974 and research scientist in
1978. Professor Mohr was an active participant in the transformation of the
Institute of Public Administration into the Institute of Public Policy Studies
(1968) and finally into the School of Public Policy (1995). He was appointed
professor of public policy in 1995.
Professor Mohr made major contributions to many aspects of the study of
public policy and public organizations. He authored four major books and
numerous articles on such diverse and significant topics as organizational
behavior, program evaluation, statistical significance testing, and the causes of
human behavior. In recognition of his leadership in his field, in 1992 Professor
Mohr received the Donald T. Campbell Award, given by the Policy Studies
Association for "outstanding methodological innovation in public policy studies."
Within the University, Professor Mohr served on many departmental and
University committees, was a special assistant to the dean of LS&A for
undergraduate education, and was director of graduate studies in the
Department of Political Science. On the national and state levels, Professor
Mohr worked for the U.S. Public Health Service and was a consultant to the
Government Accounting Office, the National Institutes of Education and of
Justice, the National Science Foundation, the Health Care Financing
Administration, the Henry Ford Health System, and the Industrial
Technology Institute.
The Regents now salute this outstanding faculty member by naming
Lawrence B. Mohr professor emeritus of political science and professor
emeritus of public policy.
Paul F. Nowak, Ph.D., associate professor of natural resources in the
School of Natural Resources and Environment, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 1999.
A native of Michigan, Professor Nowak received his B.S. and M.S.
degrees from Wayne State University in 1955 and 1960, respectively, and his
Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan in 1969. He was an assistant
professor and chair of the Conservation and Outdoor Education Program at
Southern Illinois University at Carbondale from 1969-74. He joined the
Behavior and Environment Program of the School of Natural Resources and
Environment as a visiting associate professor in 1974, and was appointed
associate professor and director of continuing education in 1979.
As the principle investigator on the first national environmental
education grant from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in 1994,
Professor Nowak was instrumental in the development of new techniques for
training natural resource professionals and environmental educators. The
National Consortium for Environmental Education and Training (NCEET)
was a three-year grant for $6.2 million. The EE-Link web site that resulted
from this grant draws over 3,000 visitors per day, and it also received 24 web
site awards.
As part of his work in developing mid-career training programs,
Professor Nowak received seven grants from the EPA to develop training
programs for federal and state employees who are responsible for hazardous
waste. These programs were an innovative blend of written, audio, webbased, and video material. Professor Nowak also directed the SNRE's Wildland
Center, which was dedicated to understanding wildlands management


329




May Meeting, 1999


throughout the world. In cooperation with the U.S. Park Service and the U.S.
Forest Service, for 14 years he also directed the prestigious SNRE
International Seminar Programs, which gave cabinet-level resource managers
and administrators from over 100 foreign countries an opportunity to study in
the U.S. Working with the School of Education, he developed environmental
education programs which afforded SNRE students the opportunity to teach
environmental education in the Ann Arbor public schools using the school
system's Outdoor Laboratories.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Paul F. Nowak
associate professor emeritus of natural resources.
Charles E. Olson, Jr., Ph.D., professor of natural resources in the School of
Natural Resources and Environment, will retire from active faculty status on
May 31, 1999.
A native of Minnesota, Professor Olson received his B.S.F. degree from the
University of Michigan in 1952, his M.F. degree from the University of
Minnesota in 1953, and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan in
1969. From 1953-56, he served in the U.S. Navy as an instructor in photo
interpretation, photogrammetry and radar targeting; he remained in the naval
reserve until retiring in 1987 with the rank of captain. From 1956-63, Professor
Olson was a faculty member at the University of Illinois. He returned to the
University of Michigan in 1964 as a lecturer and research associate with a joint
appointment in the School of Natural Resources and Environment and the
Infrared Physics Laboratory of the University's Willow Run Laboratories. He
was promoted to associate professor in 1969 and to professor in 1973.
Professor Olson taught undergraduate and graduate courses in map and
image interpretation, remote sensing of environment, and imaging radar. He
has also taught courses in digital processing of remote sensor data, applications
of geographic information systems, multiple-use forest management, and fire
ecology. He has served the School of Natural Resources and Environment as
director of the Remote Sensing Laboratory since 1970; as graduate chair from
1972-74; and as dean from 1974-75.
A registered forester in Michigan, Professor Olson has been active in the
Society of American Foresters and served as chair of the Remote Sensing
Working Group in 1990-91. The American Society of Photogrammetry awarded
him its FMA Photo Interpretation Award in 1965. In addition, the society has
honored him with three presidential citations and election as fellow in 1998. He
served as a member of the society's Remote Sensing Specialist Certification
Committee from 1991-96, and as chair, Biology Panel, NAS/NRC Committee on
Remote Sensing Programs for Natural Resource Surveys from 1972-77.
Professor Olson has also been a consultant and expert witness for analysis of
land cover/use from historic and current aerial photographs and served as special
consultant to the president of the National Academy of Sciences during the
review of damage assessment resulting from defoliant spraying in Vietnam,
1972-74.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Charles E.
Olson, Jr., professor emeritus of natural resources.
Willis C. Patterson, Ph.D., professor of music and longtime associate dean
in the School of Music, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1999.


330




May Meeting, 1999


Born in Ann Arbor, Professor Patterson graduated from Ann Arbor High
School and received B.Mus. and M.Mus. degrees, in 1958 and 1959, respectively,
from the University of Michigan. He was also invited to membership in Pi
Kappa Lambda national music honor society. He served on the faculty of
Southern University from 1959-61 and Virginia State College from 1962-68. In
1960, he attended the Manhattan School of Music, and in 1966-67 he studied at
the Hochschule for Musik in Frieburg, Germany, under sponsorship of a
Fulbright Fellowship. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan as
associate professor of music in 1968 and was promoted to professor in 1971.
Much later, at the age of 58, while serving as professor and associate dean,
Professor Patterson enrolled at Wayne State University. He graduated in 1993
with a Ph.D. degree in education administration and supervision.
Within the School of Music, Professor Patterson has been an effective
and inspiring teacher of voice, both on campus and during summers at the
National Music Camp at Interlochen. Perhaps his most visible role in the
University community was as the charismatic director of the Men's Glee Club
from 1969-74. He served as chair of the voice faculty from 1975-79 and as
associate dean of the School of Music from 1979-98.
Among his honors are the Marion Anderson Award for Young Singers
(1958) and the "Singer of the Year" Award from the National Association of
Teachers of Singing (1959). He is an invited member of the Michigan
Academy of Arts and Sciences. He received the Leonard F. Sain Award for
"significant contribution to the development of black students" in 1983 and
the Harold R. Johnson Diversity Award in 1997.
When Professor Patterson returned to Michigan in 1968, he was the
first-and for a while, only-African American member of the music faculty.
His sterling qualities and actions for decades have stood in friendly but
powerful rebuke to any kind of racial hegemony in this institution, with
dramatic results for all to behold.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Willis C.
Patterson professor emeritus of music.
Ara G. Paul, Ph.D., dean emeritus and professor of pharmacognosy,
College of Pharmacy, retired from active faculty status on April 30, 1999.
Professor Paul received his B.S. degree from Idaho State University in
1950, and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Connecticut in
1953 and 1956, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan in 1957 as
an assistant professor and was promoted to associate professor in 1963 and
professor in 1969. Professor Paul also served 20 years as dean of the College of
Pharmacy, from 1975-95.
Under Professor Paul's leadership, the College of Pharmacy became known
as one of the premier centers of pharmacy education and research in the world.
Early on, Professor Paul recognized that the role of the pharmacist was evolving
from a focus on the distribution of medications to a focus on patient-centered
pharmaceutical care. In response, he led the move to the adoption of the Doctor
of Pharmacy degree as the single professional degree offered by the college in
1979, a model that will have been adopted by all U.S. colleges of pharmacy by the
year 2003. As dean, Professor Paul was also extremely successful in attracting
external support, as evidenced by the growth of the college's endowment from
$500,000 to almost $19 million during his tenure. This allowed for the


331




May Meeting, 1999


expansion and renovation of facilities to provide state-of-the-art laboratories and
classrooms to enhance the teaching and research missions of the college. As a
result of Professor Paul's efforts, the college enjoys a distinguished faculty and
professional and graduate students of the highest quality. Alumni have also
benefited from the alumni services and programs implemented during his tenure
as dean.
In recognition of Professor Paul's exceptional record as a teacher,
mentor, and scholar, he has received a number of awards, including the
College of Pharmacy Outstanding Teaching Award, the Idaho State
University Outstanding Alumni and Professional Achievement Awards, the
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education Distinguished Former
Fellow Profile Award, and appointment as a fellow of the American
Association for the Advancement of Science.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator, scientist, and
administrator for his dedicated service by naming Ara G. Paul professor
emeritus of pharmacognosy.
John E. Taylor, Ph.D., professor of aerospace engineering, will retire
from active faculty status on May 31, 1999.
Professor Taylor received his B.S. degree in 1954 from the Illinois Institute
of Technology, his M.S. degree in 1955 from the University of Illinois, and his
Ph.D. degree in 1964 from the University of Michigan. He served in the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers from 1955-57. From 1961-68, he was an assistant
professor at UCLA. He joined the University of Michigan in 1968 as an associate
professor. He was granted tenure in 1971 and was promoted to professor in
1975.
Professor Taylor gained practical experience through industry work at
Boeing Airplane Company (1958) and the Whittaker Corporation (1966-67). In
1967, he received a patent for "Solid Medium Thermal Engine" and he has a
great working model of it. At Michigan, Professor Taylor has been a pioneer in
structural optimization methods, creating a course, "Optimal Structural
Design," taken by students in many engineering disciplines. He has done
research on many aspects of structural mechanics, including plate theory,
buckling, vibration, and optimization.  He discovered a technique to
simultaneously design the topology and material of an optimal structure.
Recently, this formulation has been extended to include materials of the most
general properties.
Professor Taylor served in the Senate Assembly and on the SACUA Civil
Liberties Board and Academic Affairs Advisory Committee, chairing the latter
in 1997-98. He is currently a member of the executive committee of the
American Association of University Professors and on the board of directors
of the Academic Freedom Lecture Fund.
Professor Taylor has hosted a number of distinguished international
researchers at Michigan and has had a long relationship with the Technical
University of Denmark at Lyngby. He is one of the few non-Danish researchers
to be invited to participate as a member of the Danish Center for Applied
Mathematics and Mechanics. Professor Taylor has carried out extensive
collaboration with colleagues at the Instituto Superior Tecnico in Lisbon as well.
He is also an active member of the Society of Engineering Science and the
American Academy of Mechanics.


332




May Meeting, 1999


The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming John E.
Taylor professor emeritus of aerospace engineering.
Patricia F. Waller, Ph.D., senior research scientist and former director
of the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute (UMTRI);
senior research scientist in the Department of Psychiatry, Medical School;
professor of health management and policy, School of Public Health; and
adjunct professor of psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retired from active faculty status on April 30, 1999.
Dr. Waller received her A.B. (1953) and M.S. (1955) degrees from the
University of Miami and her Ph.D. (1959) degree from the University of
North Carolina (UNC). At UNC, she served as the associate director for
driver studies at the Highway Safety Research Center, faculty member in the
School of Public Health, and as the founding director of the Injury Prevention
Research Center. She came to the University of Michigan in 1989 as director
of the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute.
Under Dr. Waller's direction, UMTRI broadened its scope of research
investigation to involve faculty from many schools and colleges. She led three
large, federally-funded projects, one demonstrating the effects of alcohol on
injury, another examining the risk-taking behaviors of adolescent drivers, and a
third examining the effect of alcohol on older drivers. Within the University, she
has served as co-director of the Injury Research Center, as executive board
member of the Substance Abuse Center, and on the executive committees of
several other research centers. On the national level, Dr. Waller developed a
model program for driver licensing and monitoring of large trucks for the U.S.
Department of Transportation, which became the basis for legislation
establishing the commercial driver license. She also developed and promoted the
concept of graduated licensing for beginning drivers, which has since been
adopted in Michigan and a number of other states.
Among Dr. Waller's numerous awards are the Roy W. Crum Award from
the Transportation Research Board of the National Research Council; the
Widmark Laureate Award from the International Council on Alcohol, Drugs,
and Traffic Safety; the Hildreth Award from the American Psychological
Association; and the Distinguished Career Award from the Injury Control and
Emergency Health Services Section of the American Public Health
Association.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Patricia F.
Waller senior research scientist emerita, UMTRI, senior research scientist
emerita, Medical School, and professor emerita of health management and
policy.
John B. Woodward, Ph.D., professor of naval architecture and marine
engineering, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1999.
Professor Woodward received his B.S.E. degree in 1949 from Virginia
Polytechnic Institute. From 1949-60 he was a design supervisor at the
Newport News Shipbuilding Company in the pioneering nuclear ship
propulsion division. He resigned that position in 1960 to enter the University
of Michigan College of Engineering, where he earned his M.S.E. degree in
1963 and his Ph.D. degree in 1965. He joined the Department of Naval
Architecture and Marine Engineering as an instructor in 1963 and was


333




May Meeting, 1999


promoted to assistant professor in 1965, associate professor in 1968, and
professor in 1974.
Professor Woodward taught thirteen different courses, ranging from the
sophomore-level introduction to naval architecture through several at the
most advanced levels, including five courses that he originated. He created
some of the world's earliest courses in computer-aided design and became
known overseas for his pioneering lectures in Europe. In addition, he
organized and taught five summer courses for practicing engineers. His
reputation, and that of the University of Michigan, became further enhanced
with the highly acclaimed books he published on the subjects of marine gas
turbines and marine diesel engines. He also published over thirty technical
papers and articles, two of which won important awards.
Professor Woodward willingly shouldered his share of administrative
responsibilities, serving on eleven different internal committees and seven
national committees.
The Regents salute this faculty member for his 36 years of dedicated
service by naming John B. Woodward professor emeritus of naval
architecture and marine engineering.
E. Benjamin Wylie, Ph.D., professor of civil and environmental
engineering, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1999, following
an outstanding career highlighted by excellence in teaching, research, and
service to the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, the College
of Engineering, the University of Michigan, and the engineering profession.
Professor Wylie was born in Saskatchewan, Canada, in 1931 and became a
naturalized U.S. citizen in 1967.  He received his B.S. degree in civil
engineering from the University of Denver in 1953, his M.S. degree in civil
engineering from the University of Colorado in 1955, and his Ph.D. degree
from the University of Michigan in 1964. He joined the faculty of the
University of Michigan as an assistant professor in 1965 and was promoted to
associate professor in 1966 and professor in 1970. Professor Wylie served as
chair of the Department of Civil Engineering from 1984-90, and then of the
renamed Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering from 1991-94.
Professor Wylie's research specialty was fluid transients, specifically in the
numerical simulation of transient phenomena through the method of
characteristics. Over his career, he adapted the methodology to the simulation
of a wide variety of applications, including extension of water hammer analysis,
simulation of soil pore water transients during earthquakes, and simulation of
the inflation of automobile air bags. During his career at Michigan, he was
chair or co-chair of thirteen Ph.D. committees and author or co-author of
three textbooks, one of which, Fluid Mechanics, is currently in the ninth
edition and two of which have been translated into foreign languages.
Two engineering societies, the American Society of Civil Engineers and
the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, have recognized Professor
Wylie with fellow status. In 1996, he received the prestigious Steven S. Atwood
Excellence in Engineering Award from the College of Engineering.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his
dedicated service by naming E. Benjamin Wylie professor emeritus of civil
and environmental engineering.


334




May Meeting, 1999


Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported to the
Regents this month.
Degrees. There are no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Consent Agenda approved. On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded
by Regent White, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
Six Months Report on University Audits
Executive Vice President Kasdin and Mr. Carl Smith, director of
university audits, submitted the Six Months Report on University Audits.
Sale of Tax Exempt Commercial Paper to Finance University's
Projects
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Brandon, the
Regents unanimously approved an increase of $7.9 million in the amount
outstanding under the commercial paper program supported by a pledge of
General Revenues to provide partial funding for the new College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters Building on the University of Michigan-Dearborn campus.
Alternative Asset Investment
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $25.0 million to Morgan Stanley
Dean Witter Capital Partners IV, L.P., pending a favorable review of the legal
documents by the Office of the General Counsel.
726 Oakland Avenue, Ann Arbor, Michigan
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved acquisition of the property at 726 Oakland Avenue in
Ann Arbor at a price of $620,000, subject to the University's satisfaction with
the environmental condition and appraised value of the property.
Change in Name of The Observatory of the University of Michigan
Vice President Ulaby reviewed the history of the naming of the
observatory, noting that it had originally been named "The Detroit
Observatory" and the name had then been changed to "The Observatory of
the University of Michigan." On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by
Regent White, the Regents unanimously approved a change in the name of
"The Observatory of the University of Michigan" to "The University of
Michigan Detroit Observatory."
Institute of Science and Technology (IST) High Bay Building
Addition
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Deitch, the
Regents unanimously approved the IST High Bay Building Addition Project
and authorized contracting with the firm of Jickling, Lyman, and Powell for
its design.


335




May Meeting, 1999


University Hospital Operating Room Expansion
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved a project for expanding University Hospital's
operating capacity by two rooms and doing additional renovations for
functions in support of surgical activity, as described in the Regents
Communication.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Oak Ridge
National Laboratory
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Deitch, the
Regents unanimously approved an agreement between the University of
Michigan and Oak Ridge National Laboratory for the support of collaborative
activities with Dr. Steve E. Lindberg from the Oak Ridge National
Laboratory through a grant awarded to the University of Michigan. Because
Dr. Lindberg is also an adjunct professor at the University of Michigan, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements.
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Oak Ridge
National Laboratory.
2.  Terms of the agreement involve a total subcontract of approximately
$125,000 to cover the period of January 1, 1999 through January 15, 2000.
Dr. Lindberg's appointment at the University of Michigan runs through
August 1999 and is without compensation.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Washtenaw
Integrated Health Care Project
Executive Vice President Omenn introduced Dr. Thomas Carli, clinical
associate professor of psychiatry, and Mr. David Neal, assistant professor of
social work in the Department of Psychiatry, who have been working with
state and local government officials to establish the Washtenaw Integrated
Health Care Project. This project creates a new corporation with the
Washtenaw County Board of Commissioners to manage integrated health
care services for Medicaid and indigent populations in Washtenaw County.
He noted that it is a "signal achievement" in community relations for the
University.
Regent Newman inquired how creation of this corporation would affect
Regental oversight responsibilities. Dr. Carli responded that the Health
System will be sharing the oversight of the project with the new legal entity.
Governance of health care remains within the health system. The governing
board of the community mental health corporation (Washtenaw Community
Health Board) is ultimately responsible for the allocation of funds in the
system, and the University's representatives on the board represent the
University's interests in that decision-making process. He noted that there
is an exit policy that would allow the University to terminate the agreement
quickly if an action should occur that is not within the University's interests.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Brandon, the
Regents unanimously approved establishment of the Washtenaw Integrated
Health Care Project, as described in the Regents Communication.
336




May Meeting, 1999


Change in Name of Center for Western European Studies
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Horning, the
Regents unanimously approved a change in the name of the Center for
Western European Studies to the Center for European Studies.
"Michigan Greats"
Vice President Ulaby highlighted the accomplishments of University of
Michigan alumnus Samuel C. C. Ting, professor of physics at Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and winner of the 1976 Nobel Prize for Physics.
Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 10:45
a.m. The next meeting is scheduled for June 17-18, 1999.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and
Secretary of the University


337




JUNE MEETING, 1999


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, June 17, 1999
The Regents convened at 1:40 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard,
McGowan, Newman, Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost Cantor,
Vice President Feagin, Vice President Hartford, Executive Vice President
Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Executive Vice
President Omenn, Interim Chancellor Schmoll, Vice President and Secretary
Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Chancellor
Renick was absent; Provost Simpson attended in his place.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order.
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
President Bollinger announced that the College of Architecture and
Urban Planning received a gift of $30 million from Mr. A. Alfred Taubman,
and as a result, the college was requesting that it be renamed the A. Alfred
Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning. President Bollinger
noted that this is the largest gift that Mr. Taubman has given to the
University of Michigan or to any other institution, and it is the largest gift
ever made to a school of architecture in the United States. The gift is also
noteworthy in that it will be used for endowment.
President Bollinger observed that it is a very serious matter for the
University to name something for an individual. To name a school, which is
perhaps the most significant, in general the gift must have the potential to
transform the school, the name must be appropriate to the mission of the
school, and the naming decision must have been preceded by extensive
discussion within the University.
President Bollinger recognized the contributions of Vice President
Feagin, Provost Cantor, Dean Kelbaugh, former Dean Beckley, and faculty,
students, and staff of the college in obtaining this gift.
Provost Cantor observed that this is an extraordinary gift that has the
power to transform the college. It will transform the faculty by enabling the
recruitment of additional scholars and practitioners and will enhance the
student body through the ability to offer substantially increased financial aid
packages.   Provost Cantor emphasized the importance of such     a
transformative gift in the area of arts and humanities, noting that the
College of Architecture and Urban Planning offers exactly the kinds of
shared public culture, community-oriented programs, and interdisciplinary
focus from which the University can make exceptional contributions.
Dean Kelbaugh spoke about plans the college is making for the use of
the funds. These include recruitment of additional extraordinary faculty,
both distinguished practitioners and scholars, who would improve the


339




June Meeting, 1999


faculty/student ratio in the college; and building a stronger student body
through substantially increased financial aid. Dean Kelbaugh reported that
the faculty decided that an endowment gift directed toward programmatic
needs would be more beneficial than an improved building, and they were
thrilled that this had been achieved.
Vice President Feagin observed that a gift of this size is a very unusual
occurrence. The fact that the gift will have been fully realized within five
years is also extraordinary and has a real impact on the institution.
Regent Newman moved approval of changing the name of the College of
Architecture and Urban Planning to the A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning. Regent Taylor seconded the motion.
They congratulated all involved on such an incredible gift.
The vote was then taken and the motion was approved unanimously.
Resolution in honor of Sean Michael Welch
Regent Maynard called Sean Michael Welch to the podium and read the
following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan congratulate and
commend University of Michigan-Flint senior theatre major Sean
Michael Welch for winning the John Cauble Short Play Award at the
Kennedy Center/American College Theatre Festival in Washington,
D.C., in April 1999. This prestigious festival recognizes and celebrates
the finest theatrical works produced on campuses nationwide.
Mr. Welch's one-act play "Earl, The Vampire," a farce about a
family of vampires seeking status in America, was one of six plays
chosen from more than 900 college and university entries for
performance at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts as
part of the festival. Mr. Welch's award included a $1,000 prize,
publication by publisher Samuel French Inc., and membership in the
Dramatists Guild.
Mr. Welch has been writing since childhood and has penned more
than a dozen plays, four of which have been performed for enthusiastic
audiences at Flint's Black Box Theatre. He recently returned from a
London theatre tour course and plans to attend graduate school after
graduation.
The Regents salute Sean Michael Welch on a splendid opening
act of a promising literary career.
A round of applause followed.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of
the May 20-21, 1999 meeting.


340




June Meeting, 1999


Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted the Investment
Report and Plant Extension Report.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov reported that the case,
Matthew Schembechler and the MLS Company v the University of Michigan,
had been dismissed in its entirety by the federal court. He also noted that
the Michigan Supreme Court had issued a decision in the Federated
Publications v Michigan State University Board of Trustees in favor of the
board of trustees. He said that the University of Michigan recognizes its
responsibility to govern publicly and openly, but the University was pleased
because it, along with other state universities, had participated as an amicus.
The University of Michigan was gratified that the court had affirmed its
long-held opinion that in the area of presidential searches the state
constitution recognizes that governing boards of public universities may need
freedom to choose how they operate.
President Bollinger commented that as a public institution, the
University is not looking for ways to conduct business in secret. However, he
noted that no institution that functions truly effectively does everything in
public, including the press. The overriding principle guiding the University
will be the public interest.
Research Report. Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of
Projects Established for May 1999.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President
Omenn reviewed a number of events that had taken place in the health
system over the past month. He also noted that the health system would be
completing its fiscal year in the black.
Dearborn Campus. Provost Simpson reported that construction had
begun on the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters (CASL) Building, and
occupancy is expected by Fall 2001.
Flint Campus. Chancellor Schmoll reported on a number of events
that had been hosted on the Flint Campus during the past month. She also
noted that Regent Maynard had received the Donald Reigle Community
Service Award in recognition of her contributions to the Flint Community.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted the report on
voluntary support for May 1999.
Acuson Corporation, Mountain View, California
for support in the Medical School......................................$ 5,000
Margaret Adcock Estate
for the Matilda Towsley Founding Endowment in the Medical School........ 45,048
Phyllis R. Allen Trust
300 shares of Dover Corporation common stock
or the Gail Allen Scholarship in the Center for the Education of Women...... 10,913
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.........................................................  81,494
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health.................. 50,300
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School...................................... 25,000
American Express Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts...............................    6,550
341




June Meeting, 1999


American Foundation for Urological Disease, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.................................... 9,250
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  6,563
American Israel Education Fund, Troy
for the Frankel Fellowships in Jewish Communal Service in the School
of Social W ork.......................................................  10,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the Institute for Social Research..... 141,540
A. Adnan Aswad, Birmingham
200 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock
for the Adnan Aswad Endowed Scholarship at the University of
M ichigan-Dearborn...................................................  13,888
AT&T Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts............................................. 8,075
P. Thomas Austin, Bratenahl, Ohio
100 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the P. Thomas Austin Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the School of Business Administration.......................... 11,572
Barr Group, Inc., Southfield
for the Varsity Tennis Complex and the Yost Arena Renovation Fund
in the Department of Athletics......................................... 30,000
Stanley N. Bergman, New Haven, Connecticut
150 shares of Fleet Financial Group, Inc. for support of the Law School....... 6,591
Margaret Bertsch Trust
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies........... 80,000
Helen L. Bing, Los Angeles, California
for support in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning............... 5,000
Black Business Students Association, Ann Arbor
for the BBSA Alumni Scholarship and the Alfred E. Edwards Scholarship
in the School of Business Administration................................ 12,000
Borman Fund, Southfield
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School
of Business Administration............................................. 8,385
John D. Boyles, Grand Rapids
70 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock
for support of the Law School........................................... 5,016
Walter S. Brown Estate
for the Plastic Surgery Research and Teaching Fund in the Medical School.... 5,414
Ford R. Bryan Trust
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse, the
University of Michigan-Dearborn.......................................  10,000
Buhr Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Fund in the School of Business Administration.... 20,000
Beverly H. Burns, Grosse Pointe
for support of the Law  School..........................................  10,000
Chase Manhattan Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts................................         6,835
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., San Ramon, California
for employee matching  gifts............................................  5,625
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for employee matching gifts............................................ 5,300
Comerica, Inc., Detroit
for support in the School of Business Administration....................... 5,000
Paul ConnelI, Milford, Ohio
27,576 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Priscilla H. Connell Biology Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts................................................  752,618
Consumers Energy, Jackson
for the Global Change Laboratory Improvement Fund in the College
of Engineering, and for employee matching gifts.......................... 21,736
Eleanor M. Coulter, Midland
288 shares of Wm. Wrigley, Jr., Company common stock
for the Eleanor M. Coulter Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering, in memory of
Kenneth  E. Coulter...................................................  26,150
Covad Communications Company, Santa Clara, California
for the Global Business Partnership Fund in the School of
Business Administration..............................................  20,000


342




June Meeting, 1999


Geraldine C. Cowlin, Crystal Lake, Illinois
18,293 shares of First Midwest Bancorp, Inc., common stock
for the Gerald and Esther Carey Professorship in the School
of Business Administration...........................................  750,013
Clan Crawford, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Exhibit Museum in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts.............................................................. 5,000
Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................... 22,725
DaimlerChrysler Corporation, Livonia
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Team Projects Fund in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering.........  64,000
Loren S. Daniels Trust
for support in the School of Dentistry................................... 6,000
Virginia LeeDawson Estate
839 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in  the Medical School.......................................  64,177
Deloitte & Touche Consulting Group, Hermitage, Tennessee
for the C. S. Mott Childen's Hospital Gof Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research  in  the Medical School.......................................  6,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the Global Change Laboratory Improvement Fund in the
College of Engineering.............. 10,000
Detroit Garden Club, Grosse Pointe Woods
for the Environmental Study Area at the University of
ichigan-Dearborn......................................................  6,000
John S. Dobson, Ann Arbor
Five shares of Berkshire-Hathaway, Inc., common stock
for the John S. and Alice B. Dobson Charitable Remainder Unitrust
Fund for the ultimate benefit of the John S. and Alice B. Dobson
Endowed Research Fund in the Medical School.......................... 364,500
Dodge General Fund, Inc., Southfield
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the Medical School...........................................  20,000
Robert J. Donia, La Jolla, California
260 shares of Merrill Lynch & Company common stock
for the Robert J. Donia Professorship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts..............................................  23,213
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the Bentley Historical Library.............................. 8,000
Edison International, Rosemead, California
for employee matching gifts............................................  10,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Irving, Texas
for employee matching gifts............................................  85,303
Oscar H. Feldman, Birmingham
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in the School
of Business Administration...........................................  10,000
Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Peter S. Fuss Professorship in the College of Engineering,
and for other support at the University of Michigan..................... 1,506,750
Bonnie J. Foister Trust
for the Harry W. and Ruth MacDuff Memorial Scholarship in
the  Department of Athletics...........................................  50,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Policy............................... 100,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering,
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute Team Projects Fund in the
School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering
for research in the School of Engineering at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, and for the University Musical Society................ 181,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for employee matching gifts...........................................  101,042
Ralph M. Freeman Estate
43,470 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for support in the Schools of Medicine and Law, and at the
University of Michigan-Flint.......................................  3,420,018


343




June Meeting, 1999


Priscilla Garn, Ann Arbor
1,122 shares of KT Michigan Tax Exempt Fund mutual fund
for support in the School of Public Health, and for anthropology
support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 100,095
General Motors Corporation, Pontiac
for research and other support in the Medical School, and
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute.......................................        172,500
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for the Summerscience Fund in the Center for the Education of Women...... 15,000
Gerber Companies Foundation, Fremont
for support in the Department of Athletics................................ 6,000
Ginsberg 1995 Charitable Trust
for the Victor and Frances Ginsberg Endowed Scholarship in the
Medical School.......................................................  20,938
Norman N. Gottlieb, Ann Arbor
249 shares of CiscoSystems, Inc., common stock
for the Norman and Vivian Gottlieb Scholarship in the School of Music,
and for support of the Law School..................................... 28,853
Graham Foundation, York, Pennsylvania
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts.........................................................  50 000
Charles Grosberg Foundation, Boca Raton, Florida
899 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Dr. Joseph O. and Mrs. Norma Grosberg Endowment in the
School of Dentistry...................................................  12,771
George Gund Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for WUOM.................................................... 30,000
Arthur E. Hearron, Jr., Kalamazoo
for support in the School of Music......................................  17,363
Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto, California
for support in the School of Business Administration...................... 10,000
Honeywell, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support in the College of Engineering........................    5,000
Horizon Health Center Limited Partnership, Southfield
for the C. S. Mott Children's HospitaL Golf Classic Benefit Fund............. 5,400
Hyundai America Technical Center, Inc., Ann Arbor
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research  Institute....................................................  20,000
International Order of Kings Daughters and Sons, Laingsburg
for the Elizabeth MacgregorFund in the University Hospitals............... 5,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies
Contributions Fund, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts........................................... 12,750
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School and the Institute for Social Research..... 520,474
Thomas C. Jones, Bloomfield, Connecticut
500 shares of NAC Re Corporation common stock
for the Jane M. and Chester R. Jones Scholarship in the School
of Business Administration............................................  29,281
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek
Tor the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............. 10,800
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Schools of Information and Nursing, and
for employee matching gifts......................................... 1,268,769
Kmart Corporation, Troy
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund,
and for employee matching gifts....................................... 11,325
K.M.D. Foundation, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School....................................  54,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in the Medical School......................................  36,175
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for employee matching gifts............................................ 23,480
Lockheed Martin Corporation, Bethesda, Maryland
for employee matching gifts............................................ 10,985
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................ 100,000


344




June Meeting, 1999


John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Institute for Social Research....................... 303,000
David R. Macdonald, Bethesda, Maryland
for support of the Law School.................................... 5,000
Ruth MacDuff Trust
for the Harry W. and Ruth MacDuff Memorial Scholarship in
the Department of Athletics............................................ 90,000
Glen M. Majors Trust
1,444 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Class of 1948 Engineering Scholarship in the College
of Engineering..........................................           41,256
McGraw Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for employee matching gifts......................................... 5,625
Mechanical Dynamics, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering............................. 6,600
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies, and for the University Library................................. 880,000
Merck & Company, Inc., West Point, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the Medical School.....................................  14,000
Michelin North America, Inc., Greenville, South Carolina
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute.....................................              7,500
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for student aid in the School of Business Administration, and
for employee matching gifts..................................... 41,100
Miller Canfield, Paddock and Stone
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for research in the College of Engineering................................ 30,000
Jeffrey H. Miro, Bloomfield Hills
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund in the Comprehensive
Cancer  Center.......................................................  10,000
Marsha and Jeffrey H. Miro Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support of the Law School........................................... 5,000
Duane D. Morse, Falls Church, Virginia
for support of the Law  School..........................................  5,000
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for research in the Medical School, and for employee matching gifts.......... 16,000
Irene M. Myers, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Art and Design.............................. 10,000
Nissan Research & Development, Inc., Farmington Hills
for research in the College of Engineering and the Transportation
Research  Institute....................................................  30,500
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
for the Center for Excellence Fund and other support in the School
of D entistry........................................................  34,600
Novell, Inc., Provo, Utah
for support in the College of Engineering............................... 163,000
NSK Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund, and
for the University Musical Society......................................  12,700
Edward C. Olson, Ft. Myers, Florida
412 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for the Dr. Edward and Joan Olson Donor Pooled Income Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts.............................................................  29,590
Joan M. Olson, Ft. Myers, Florida
212 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for the Dr. Edward and Joan Olson Donor Pooled Income Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 15,171
Owens & Minor, Inc., Farmington
for research in the Medical School....................................... 5,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment........... 28,034
Pfizer, Inc., Groton, Connecticut
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 5,000


345




June Meeting, 1999


Pharmacia and Upjohn, Inc., Kalamazoo
for research in the Medical School, and for special events
support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.............................. 7,500
Pharmacia and Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Pharmacia & Upjohn Foundation Research Professorship in
Biostatistics in the School of Public Health, for the Pharmacia &
Upjohn Leadership Awards in the Medical School and for the
Pharmacia & Upjohn CEMP Interdisciplinary Faculty Research
Fund and the Pharmacia & Upjohn CEMP Graduate Fellowship
Endowment in the School of Business Administration..................... 300,000
Ames S. Pierce Estate
for the Ames S. Pierce Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate  Studies..................................................  10,000
Polk Brothers Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts......................................................... 7,500
Laurence J. Pons, Brighton
for support in the Department of Athletics................................ 5,000
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Sadye Harwick Power Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts................................................ 24,800
Presser Foundation, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania
for the Presser Musical Scholarship in the School of Music.................. 5,000
Benjamin M. Quigg, Jr., Jenkintown, Pennsylvania
360 shares of International Shipholding Corporation common stock
for the Benjamin and Patricia Quigg Scholarship in the Law School........... 5,085
Edward Ravitz, Southfield
for support in the Medical School...................................... 100,000
Edward F. Redies Foundation, Inc., Saline
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Fund, School of Business Administration......... 10,000
Richard B. Rogers Revocable Trust
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 5,000
Rustic Enterprises, Ann Arbor
for the Nichols Arboretum Flowering Tree Fund........................... 5,000
Sandvik Hard Materials Stockholm Sweden
for the Center for Excellence Fund in the School of Dentistry............... 24,983
Sci Healthcare Group, Inc., Toledo, Ohio
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Claude E. Shannon, Winchester, Massachusetts
for support in the College of Engineering................................  10,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for employee matching gifts............................................  17,525
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 17,500
Herbert Sloan, Jr., M.D., Trust
for the University Musical Society......................................  15,000
Smith Richardson Foundation, Inc., Greensboro, North Carolina
for research  in  the Law  School.........................................  10,000
Solutia, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute........................................          10,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Education.......................... 300,000
Helen McKaig Spuhler Estate
for Anthropology support in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts...................................................   100,000
Helen Tarapata, Grantham, New Hampshire
150 shares of Media One, Inc., common stock
for the Peter and Helen L. Tarapata Fund in the College of
Architecture and Urban  Planning......................................  11,269
Textron Automotive Exteriors, Inc., Troy
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......... 15,000
Textron Charitable Trust, Providence, Rhode Island
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..................... 12,319
Thomas Foundation, Farmington Hills
for support in the Medical School....................................... 50,000
Thrasher Research Fund, Salt Lake City, Utah
for research in the School of Public Health............................... 24,987


346




June Meeting, 1999


UBS AG, Stamford, Connecticut
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
United Audit Systems, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............. 10,800
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration,
and for employee matching gifts....................................... 16,253
George F. Valassis, Naples, Florida
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the
M edical School.......................................................  10,000
Michael A. Vlasic, Bloomfield Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............. 5,400
Harvey A. Wagner, Dearborn
150 shares of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company common stock
for the Harvey A. and Eleanor M. Wagner Fellowship in the
College of Engineering, and for support in the School of Education.......... 10,345
Wal-Mart, Bentonvlle, Arizona
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.......... 5,000
Samuel A. Walk, Pinckney
for the Al and Gerry Walk Scholarship in the Department of Athletics........ 25,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy and
for the University Musical Society.....................................  175,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts............................................  28,636
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Nursing, the Comprehensive Cancer Center
and  the  University  Hospitals............................................  5,321
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Peter M. Wege Professorship of Sustainable Systems and the
Transition for the Center for Sustainable Systems Fund in the
School of Natural Resources and Environment........................... 150,000
Theodore R. Wellerson, Southbury, Connecticut
for support in the College of Engineering................................. 5,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for the Community Service Learning Gift Fund............................ 5,000
Brenda S. Wickett Trust
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................ 8,500
John P. Williams, Leawood, Kansas
122 shares of Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing common stock
for the Roy F. Proffitt Loan Fund and other support in the Law School....... 10,134
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Priceton, New Jersey
for support in the Schools of Education and Public Policy................. 135,000
Winslow Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment........... 20,000
Bruce Zenkel, White Plains, New York
for the Golf Course Commemorative Fund in the Department of Athletics..... 5,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Curtiss Brock, Smithville, Tennessee
art work for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Berkowitz Gallery
Thomas W. Clark, Berkeley, California
writings, art workm and video tapes from Tom Clark's personal archives for the Special
Collections Library
John A. Copley, Ypsilanti
390 books for the classical studies department
Daniel Stern Lighting, Ann Arbor
automotive lights for the Solar Car Team
W. L. Gore & Associates, Inc., Elkton, Maryland
six portable air sampling pumps in cases for the Department of Environmental and
Industrial Health
Haworth, Inc., Holland
furnishings for Wyly Hall
International Business Machines Corporation, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
equipment for ITD
James C. Meyer, Pinckney
computer programming services for the Department of Athletics


347




June Meeting, 1999


Motorola, Inc., Phoenix, Arizona
various optic equipment for Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Parkland Presbyterian Church, Clio
a Sohmer Baby Grand piano for the University of Michigan-Flint
S-3 Engineering, Inc., Ann Arbor
hubs and wheel nuts for the Solar Car Team
SPS Technologies, Salt Lake City, Utah
various titanium and alloy fasteners for the Solar Car Team
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the
following donors
D. R. Shackleton Bailey, Ann Arbor    Prince Manufacturing Corporation,
Kathryn Bowring, Pinckney                  North Stone City South Dakota
Fred Bush, Ann Arbor                  Sara L. Rappe, Ann Arbor
John F. Cherry, Ann Arbor             Ruth Scodel Ann Arbor
William H. Finch, Ann Arbor           William M. Shurtliff, Manchester
Elaine K. Gazda, Ann Arbor            Eugene F. Stoermer, Ann Arbor
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor              Andrew M. Strowe, Ann Arbor
Jim Nelson, Ada                       M. J. Throop, Ann Arbor
Terry G. Wilfong, Ann Arbor
Personnel     Actions.      Provost   Cantor   called  attention   to  the
reappointment of David Featherman as director of the Institute for Social
Research and the appointment of Dean B. Joseph White as the Wilbur K.
Pierpont Collegiate Professor of Leadership in Management Education in the
School of Business Administration.
Executive Vice President Kasdin introduced Ms. Marty Eichstadt and
called attention to her appointment as interim executive director of human
resources and affirmative action.
Provost Simpson called attention to the appointment of Paul Wong as
dean of the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters and professor of sociology.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Baghdoyan, Helen A., Ph.D., Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, and Professor of
Pharmacology, without tenure, Medical School, August 1, 1999
Brown, Daniel G., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, School
of Natural Resources and Environment
Caminker, Evan H., J.D., Professor of Law, Law School
Duenyas, Izak, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Operations Management, School of Business
Administration
Howse, Robert L., LL.B., LL.M., Professor of Law, Law School
Lambropoulos, Vassilios, Ph.D., Professor of Modern Greek Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Lydic, Ralph, Ph.D., Bert N. LaDu Professor of Anesthesiology Research, five year term,
Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, and Professor of Physiology, with tenure,
Medical School, August 1, 1999
Markovits, Andrei S., Ph.D., Professor of German, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Masuzawa, Tomoko, Ph.D., Associate Professor of History and Comparative Literature,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
McGuire, Edward J., M.D., Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1999
Reisch, Michael, M.S.W., Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work
Wong, Paul, Ph.D., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Dean, UM-Dearborn College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, August 1, 1999-June 30, 2004


348




June Meeting, 1999


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Nghiem, Hanh Vu, M.D., Associate Professor of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 1999
Oyserman, Daphna, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, and
Associate Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999
Washington, Daniel, B.Mus., Associate Professor of Music (Voice) September 1, 1999 -May 31, 2006, and Assistant Dean for Minority Services, School of Music,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1999
Kumar, Kamalesh, Acting Chair, Department of Management Studies, UM-Dearborn School
of Management, one year term
McDonald, Terrence J., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, one year term
Smith, Sherril A., Associate Dean for Graduate Studies, School of Art and Design, two year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Dworkin, Steven N., Chair, Department of Romance Languages and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, four year term
Fierke, Carol A., Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure, Medical School,
September 1, 1999
Richards, James W., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, College of Pharmacy, one year term
Stevenson, James G., Associate Dean for Clinical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, July 12, 1999 -June 30, 2004
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
To, Cho-yee, Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, research leave extended
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective July 1, 1999, unless otherwise indicated
Establishing Professorships
Werner E. Bachmann Collegiate Professorship in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, five year renewable term, September 1, 1999
Gerald and Esther Carey Professorship in Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, five year renewable term
Henry Simmons Frieze Collegiate Professorship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
five year renewable term


349




June Meeting, 1999


New Academic Administrative Position
Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Education, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 24, 1999
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointments to Established Professorship
Batra, Rajeev, Sebastian S. Kresge Professor of Marketing, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2004
Lundholm, Russell J., Arthur Andersen Professor of Accounting, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2004
Oxley, Joanne, First Chicago NBD Corporation Assistant Professor of Business
Administration, School of Business Administration, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Statman, Daniel, Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professor of Judaic Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
White, B. Joseph, Wilbur K. Pierpont Collegiate Professor of Leadership in Management
Education, School of Business Administration, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2004
Reappointments to Established Professorship
Ellsworth, Phoebe C., Kirkland & Ellis Professor of Law, Law School,
May 1, 1999-August 31, 2004
Imhoff, Eugene A., Jr., Ernst & Young Professor of Accounting, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2004
Kim, E. Han, Fred M. Taylor Professor of Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2004
Kopelman, Raoul, Kasimir Fajans Professor of Chemistry, Physics, and Applied Physics,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, five year term, September 1, 1999
Other Transactions
Eichstadt, Martha M., Interim Executive Director of Human Resources and Affirmative
Action, Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs and
Office of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, June 18, 1999
Featherman, David L., Director of the Institute for Social Research, Office of the Provost
and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs, five year term, June 8, 2000
Young, Evans, Assistant Dean for the Freshman and Sophomore Years, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, five year term, June 14, 1999
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning Executive Committee
Chaffers, James A., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001, vice Hemalata Dandekar, term expiring
Snyder, James C., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001, vice James A. Turner, term expiring
School of Art and Design Executive Committee
Hinton, Alfred F., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001, vice R. Dwayne Overmyer, Jr., term expiring
West, Edward, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001, vice Takeshi Takahara, term expiring
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Deskins, Donald R., Jr., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2002, vice Billie J. Evans, term expiring
Sellers, Robert M., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2002, vice Teresa M. Bruggeman, term expiring
School of Business Administration Executive Committee
Andrews, Richard W., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001, vice Thomas J. Schriber, term expiring
Skinner, Douglas J., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001, vice M. P. Narayanan, term expiring
Weiss, Janet A., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001, vice Will G. Mitchell, term expiring
School of Dentistry Executive Committee
Bagramian, Robert A., November 1, 1999-October 31, 2002, vice Michael E. Razzoog, term expiring
Chiego, Daniel J., Jr., reappointed November 1, 1999-October 31, 2002


350




June Meeting, 1999


School of Education Executive Committee
Marx, Ronald W., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2002, vice Loren S. Barritt, term expiring
O'Connor, Carla, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000, vice Joan Stark, on duty off campus
Raudenbush, Stephen W., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2002, vice Samuel J. Meisels, term expiring
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Amrine, Frederick R., September 1-December 31, 1999, vice Nancy K. Florida, on duty off campus
Ellsworth, Phoebe C., September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002, open position
Engelke, David R., September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002, open position
Porter, James I., September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002, open position
Reame, Nancy E., September 1, 1999-August 31, 2000, vice Bobbi S. Low, sabbatical leave
Walter, Lynn M., September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002, open position
Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
Clark, Noreen M., reappointed July 1, 1999-June 30, 2002
Danziger, Sheldon H., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2002, vice Paula Allen-Meares, term expiring
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Smith-Rosenberg, Carol, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002, vice Ludwig Koenen, term expiring
Yocum, Charles F., September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002, vice Kathryn W. Tosney, term expiring
Medical School Executive Committee
Robillard, Jean E., September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002, vice N. Reed Dunnick term expiring
Warren, Jeffrey S., September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002, vice Gerald D. Abrams, term expiring
School of Music Executive Committee
Everett, Walter T., September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002, vice Theodore Morrison, term expiring
Reynolds, H. Robert, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002, vice Andrew W. Mead, term expiring
School of Natural Resources and Environment Executive Committee
Nassauer, Joan I., June 1, 1999-May 31, 2001, vice Rachel Kaplan, term expired
Zak, Donald R., reappointed June 1, 1999-May 31, 2001
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Barnard, Ruth M., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2002, vice Sally L. Lusk, term expiring
Yeo, SeonAe, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2002, vice Marilyn Svejda, term expiring
College of Pharmacy Executive Committee
Kirking, Duane M., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2002, open position
Yang, Victor C. M., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2002, vice Nair Rodriguez-Hornedo, term expiring
School of Public Health Executive Committee
Harlow, Sioban, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2000, vice Stephen Mick, resigned
Hickey, Tom, reappointed September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002
Zellers, Edward T., September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002, vice Rita Loch-Caruso, term expiring
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
Bazzi, Ali, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002, vice Marilee B. Parsons, term expiring
Loeb, Roger, September 1-December 31, 1999, vice James E. Gruber, sabbatical leave
Smith, Jonathan, reappointed September 1, 1999-August 31, 2002
UM-Flint Channel 28 Community Advisory Board
Bettendorf, James B., reappointed June 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Garcia, Hector, June 1, 1999-May 31, 2002, vice Mary Turcke, term expired
Hinterman, Carol, reappointed June 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Kugler, Marianne R., June 1, 1999-May 31, 2002, vice Jack Hamady, term expired
Mancour, Ann, June 1, 1999-May 31, 2002, vice Mary L. Strong, term expired
Matonich, John, June 1, 1999-May 31, 2002, vice Jan Niewenhuis, term expired
Papale, Victor, June 1, 1999-May 31, 2002, vice Rita Stanley, term expired
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee
Alexander, Lois L., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2002, vice Nathan Oaklander, term expiring
Kren, Robert M., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2002, vice James Ames, term expiring


351




June Meeting, 1999


UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services Executive Committee
Bailey, Charles W., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001, vice Sue A. Woetstehoff, term expiring
Towsley, Ann E., reappointed July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001
Personnel reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Apakupakul, Kathleen, M.S., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1-August 31, 1999
Baker, Samuel M., M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Theatre, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Ben-Shahar, Omri, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 1999 -May 31, 2002
Benson, Heidi P., M.A., Lecturer I in Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 1-June 30, 1999
Boyd, Melba J., D.A., Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 1999
Caoili, Elaine M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical School,
July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Casement, Rose A., Ed.D., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Cicciarelli, Louis A., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 1999
Cobb, Thomas W., Ph.D., Lecturer in English Language and Literature, UM-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Collins, Derek B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Conlon, Megan R., B.S., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 1999
Cooke, Kenneth R., M.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, May 17, 1999-May 16, 2000
Davies, Pamela S., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
De Los Cobos, Sergio, D.M.A., Assistant Professor of Music (Piano), School of Music,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2003
Ester, Todd V., D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
May 10, 1999-May 9, 2002
Fonda, Stephanie J., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 1999
Gemmete, Joseph J., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical School,
July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Halberstam, Daniel H., J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 1999 -May 31, 2002
Harris, Monte O., M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, July 1, 1999 -June 30, 2000
Henning, George T., M.D., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, Medical School, July 1, 1999 -June 30, 2000
Hershock, Martin J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Hilton-Watson, Matthew A., M.A., Assistant Professor of Foreign Languages, UM-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Hunter, David R., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 1-June 30, 1999
Ibrahim, Huma, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 1999
Jodl, Kathleen M., Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1-August 31, 1999


352




June Meeting, 1999


Katz, Ellen D., J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Koch, John M., M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
July 18, 1999-July 17, 2000
Korpas, Levente, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 1-June 30, 1999
Leady, Michelle A., D.O., Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy,
May 17, 1999-June 30, 2000
Lee, Ching K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Lusmann, Stephen A., M.A., Assistant Professor of Music (Voice), School of Music,
September 1, 1999-May 31,.2003
Moline, Stephanie R., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Mossallam, Samer, D.O., Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
August 23, 1999-July 31, 2000
Munroe, Darwin S., Ph.D., Lecturer in Political Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Nor, Jacques E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, May 1, 1999 -April 30, 2002
O'Keefe, N. Thomas, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, May 17, 1999 -May 16, 2000
Park, John M., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Pfister, Michael E., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical School,
July 1, 1999-June 30, 2000
Queen, Robin M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Sedo, Stanley A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Economics, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Smith, Deborah E., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 1999
Sulewski, Robert M., Pharm.D., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of
Engineering, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Taylor, Carol L., M.A., Lecturer in Communication, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Theodore, Alisse S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Wisneski, Richard L., Ph.D., Lecturer in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Worth, Janice M., M.F.A., Lecturer in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Cederna, Paul S., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 1999 -June 30, 2000
Davis, Wayne K., from Associate Dean and Professor of Medical Education, with tenure, to
Professor of Medical Education, with tenure, Medical School, January 1, 1998
Kintner, Eileen K., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002
Scott, Phillip A., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, May 1, 1999 -April 30, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Bassett, David R., Associate Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, August 1, 1999 -July 31, 2000


353




June Meeting, 1999


Becker, Marjorie C., Assistant Professor Emerita of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
Medical School, July 1, 1998-June 30, 2000
Cole, Theodore M., Professor Emeritus of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical
School, July 18, 1999-July 17, 2000
Gunn, Sondra M., Assistant Professor Emerita of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
January 8-August 31, 1999
Krachenberg, A. R., Professor Emeritus of Management, UM-Dearborn School of
Management, May 1-June 30, 1999
Medzihradsky, Fedor, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry and Professor Emeritus of
Pharmacology, Medical School, April 15-August 31, 1999
Zannoni, Vincent G., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School, July 1, 1998 -June 30, 2000
Zweifler, Andrew J., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 1999 -June 30, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Anderson, Elizabeth S., Associate Professor of Philosophy and Women's Studies, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 2000
Ascione, Frank J., Associate Professor of Pharmacy Administration, with tenure, College of
Pharmacy, sabbatical leave, July 1-December 31, 1999
Aswad, A. Adnan, Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering,
with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of Engineering, retirement furlough,
January 1-April 30, 1999
Bailey, Richard W., Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, research leave, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Beckley, Robert M., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, administrative leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Brown, Charles C., Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Brusati, Celeste A., Associate Professor of History of Art and Women's Studies, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1999
Carpenter, Bogdana, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, Chair,
Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1999
Crocker, Jennifer K., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Davis, Wayne K., Professor of Medical Education, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, January 1-December 31, 1999
Farrehi, Janice G., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, personal
leave, July 13, 1999-July 12, 2000
Kirkpatrick, Diane M., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of History of Art,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Kotre, John N., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Lay, Howard G., Assistant Professor of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1999
Lee, Ching K., Assistant Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Loeb, Louis E., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1999, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000
McClean, Kelly, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dermatology, Medical School, child care
leave, April 15-July 5, 1999
Rabideau, Michelle L., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School, family care
leave, May 26-August 2, 1999


354




June Meeting, 1999


Ronen, Omry, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Siebers, Tobin A., Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
Simmons, Milagros S., Associate Professor of Environmental Chemistry, with tenure, School
of Public Health, extended sick leave, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Stacchetti, Ennio S., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1999
Thomas David W., Assistant Professor of English, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1999
Thomson, William J., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College
of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1999-April 30, 2000
Thornton, Arland D., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Watkins, Bruce A., Associate Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, Division of Kinesiology,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Zirbes, Georgette M., Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, scholarly
activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2000
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Deceased
Flanigan, Larry K., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, College of Engineering, May 8, 1999
Resigned
Agee Jonis, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1999
Albert, Daniel M., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering, May 31, 1999
Alvarez, Jose E., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, May 31, 1999
Campell, Stephen J., William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of History of Art and Assistant
Professor of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May, 31, 1999
Clark, Rex, Assistant Professor of German, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, June 30, 1999
Gil-Del-Real, Maria T., Lecturer in Health Behavior and Health Education, School of Public
Health, May 31, 1998
Jones, Katherine R., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, and
Associate Professor of Health Management, without tenure, School of Public Health,
December 31, 1999
Naficy, Sam, Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical school, June 30, 1999
Nomura, Gail M., Lecturer III in History, and Lecturer III in History, Residential College,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1999
O'Brien, Aidan D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 1998
Vallance, David K., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 1999
Willard, Margaret, Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering, May 31, 1999
Retired
Aminoff, David, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, August 31, 1999
Christensen, A. Kent, Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, Medical School,
May 31, 1999
Clipson, Colin W., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, May 31, 1999
Dunn, Thomas M., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, December 31, 1998
Garlick, Ingeborg E., Lecturer in Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
June 30, 1999
Gray, Floyd F., Professor of French, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 1999
Lopez-Grigera, Luisa, Professor of Spanish, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 1999


355




June Meeting, 1999


Marston, Wilfred G., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, June 30, 1999
Nowak, Paul F., Associate Professor of Natural Resources, without tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, May 31, 1999
Olson, Charles E., Jr., Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, May 31, 1999
Paslick, Robert H., Associate Professor of German, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1999
Porter, Richard C., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 1999
Steiss, Alan W., Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, June 30, 1999
Stern, Robert M., Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure,
School of Public Policy, May 31, 1999
Tickle, Robert S., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 1999
Williams, David N., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 1999
Wu, Alfred C-T, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 1999
Term Completed
Ben-Ari, Sigalit, Lecturer II in Hebrew Language, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 1998
Birnbaum, Renee, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, June 9, 1999
Carvajal, Alicia, Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1999
Cerpa-Gomez, Zandra T., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 1999
Gunn, Melanie E., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 1998
Gutman, Leslie M., Lecturer I in Psychology and Lecturer I in English, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Kalliel, Nora, Lecturer II in Arabic Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1998
Li, David D., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 1999
Newman, Andrew E., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 1999
Sawyer, Thomas M., Professor Emeritus of Technical Communication, College of
Engineering, April 30, 1999
Shah, Parth, Assistant Professor of Economics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, April 30, 1999
Swallen, Karen C., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1998
Thomas, Dilip A., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, May 31, 1999
CORRECTIONS TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED TERMINATIONS
Gunn, Sondra M., Assistant Professor Emerita of Dentistry, deletion of termination
(previously reported as terminated effective January 7, 1999)
Patterson, Willis C., Professor of Music, with tenure, School of Music, retired, May 31, 1999
(previously reported as retired effective June 30, 1999)
Retirement memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted retirement
memoirs for 16 faculty members.
David Aminoff, Ph.D., D.Sc., professor of biological chemistry, will
retire from active faculty status on August 31, 1999.
Professor Aminoff received his B.Sc. degree from Chelsea Polytechnic,
London, in 1945 and his Ph.D. degree in biochemistry from London University


356




June Meeting, 1999


in 1949. In 1950, he emigrated to Israel where he participated in two
pioneering endeavors: the creation of a new Institute for Biological Research,
where his research focused on cholera (in anticipation of a potential epidemic
resulting from the influx of immigrants from endemic areas), and the setting
up of the Marcus Institute for the Fractionation of Blood for the Israeli Red
Cross (Magen David Adom), which was established in 1956. This latter
venture involved visiting blood banks and plasma fractionation centers
throughout Europe and the U.S. and led to his appointment as an exchange
scientist in the laboratories of Professor Erwin Chargaff at Columbia
University in 1955-56. From 1957-60, he was a research associate at the
Public Health Research Institute of New York, Inc., where he developed an
assay for viral and bacterial sialidases, detecting free sialic acid in the presence
of the bound compound. That assay became extremely popular and earned
him the recognition of a citation classic.
Professor Aminoff came to the University of Michigan as a research
associate in the Rackham Arthritis Research Unit in 1960, moving to the
Simpson Memorial Institute in 1962. He was promoted to assistant professor of
biological chemistry in 1966, associate professor in 1970, and professor in 1980.
At the Simpson Memorial Institute, he continued his interest in red blood cells,
working on the development of a universal blood donor type for transfusion and
studying the mechanism for clearance of senescent erythrocytes from
circulation. In recognition of these studies, the University of London bestowed
on him the D.Sc. degree in 1974.
From 1985-91 Professor Aminoff was a research scientist in the Institute
of Gerontology, exploring further the mechanisms of cellular aging. He then
returned to the Department of Biological Chemistry, where he continues to
pursue his interests in erythrocytes, collaborating with colleagues within the
University and in France, India, and Israel.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming David Aminoff professor emeritus of biological chemistry.
A. Kent Christensen, Ph.D., professor of anatomy and cell biology,
Medical School, and research scientist, Reproductive Sciences Program, retired
from active faculty status on May 31, 1999, after an active career of teaching,
research, and administration.
Professor Christensen received his A.B. degree from Brigham Young
University in 1953 and his Ph.D. degree from Harvard University in 1958.
For the next two years, he pursued postdoctoral training with Dr. Don
Fawcett at both Cornell and Harvard Medical Schools. He was appointed
assistant professor of anatomy at Stanford University in 1961 and was
promoted to associate professor there in 1968. In 1971, Professor Christensen
moved to Temple University School of Medicine, where he was appointed
professor and chair of the anatomy department. He came to the University of
Michigan as professor of anatomy and chair of the Department of Anatomy in
1978. He served as chair until 1982.
Professor Christensen has had a distinguished career as a cell biologist.
His laboratory research contributions have concentrated on the cell biology of
the testis, polysome ultrastructure, and designing techniques for the
preparation of ultrathin frozen sections at the electron microscopic level. A
major local contribution was his establishment of the Cell Biology


357




June Meeting, 1999


Laboratories, a microscopy core facility at the University of Michigan. As
chair, he was instrumental in introducing a significant emphasis on cell
biology, in addition to changing the department name from anatomy to
anatomy and cell biology.
As a teacher, Professor Christensen has been an enthusiastic participant
in a variety of histology and cell biology courses, and he taught a very popular
course on morphology for molecular biologists. He also trained six Ph.D.
students and eight postdoctoral fellows. Professor Christensen has served as
president of a number of professional organizations, including the Association
of Anatomy Chairmen, the American Association of Anatomists, and the
Michigan Electron Microscopy Society.
The Regents now salute this distinguished medical educator and
researcher for his dedicated service by naming A. Kent Christensen professor
emeritus of anatomy and cell biology and research scientist emeritus.
Colin W. Clipson, professor of architecture in the College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1999.
A native of England, Professor Clipson received his B.A. degree in 1957
and a graduate diploma in 1958 from the University of Durham and his M.Sc.
degree in 1969 from the University of Technology. He served as chair of the
design department at The Ohio State University from 1964-67 and was a
visiting professor at the University of Technology in 1968. He came to the
University of Michigan in 1969 as a visiting lecturer. He was promoted to
associate professor in 1971 and professor in 1975.
Professor Clipson has integrated graduate and doctoral level courses in
design and in human factors with an active program in design research. He
served as chair of the college's research program from 1982-89 and has served
on many program, college, and University committees. In 1985, he received a
Design Research Award from the National Endowment for the Arts and in
1996, an AIA Design Research Citation from the AIA. He was named a fellow
of the Royal Society of Arts in London in 1987, received the Presidential
Design Award in 1988, and the First Design Research Award from Progressive
Architecture in 1975. He has also received the Sol King Award for Excellence
in Teaching.
In the mid-eighties, Professor Clipson directed a national design research
project with major U.S. corporations entitled "The Competitive Edge: The
Role of Design in American Corporations." Professor Clipson has been a
project director with the NASA Ames Space Research Center, working on
space station simulations and evaluating ways in which Ames simulation
research may be integrated with space station design development. New
NASA projects include the current Sub-orbital Infra-red Astronomy Initiative
(SOFIA). In conjunction with the School of Art and Design, he was director
of The Workplace Research Group, which has initiated many projects on
workplace planning and design in collaboration with corporations and
government agencies. He has worked with the Herman Miller Corporation
designing new environments for learning and new types of team centered
workspaces.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Colin W. Clipson
professor emeritus of architecture.


358




June Meeting, 1999


Thomas M. Dunn, Ph.D., professor of chemistry in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on
December 31, 1998.
A native of Australia, Professor Dunn received his B.Sc. degree in 1949
and his M.Sc. degree in 1952, both from the University of Sydney. He received
his Ph.D. degree in 1957 from University College in London and was a
lecturer at University College from 1956-63. He joined the faculty at the
University of Michigan as a professor of chemistry in 1963.
Professor Dunn's research interests have centered on the field of
electronic spectroscopy. He was one of the earliest workers in large-molecule
spectroscopy, having studied large organic aromatic molecules by
high-resolution methods. His work on the highly symmetric benzene molecule
resulted in the first band contour assignment of its lowest electronically
excited state. His earliest research efforts at Michigan were focused on the
electronic spectroscopy of inorganic complexes and the development of crystal
field theory, an area that played a pivotal role in the renaissance of inorganic
chemistry in the 50s and 60s. He contributed importantly to the general area
of metal-ligand interactions in inorganic complexes, which fostered the
growth of molecular orbital methods for describing the electronic structure of
small and large compounds. He achieved widespread recognition for his
spectroscopic studies of gas phase, non-hydride, and diatomic molecules.
These efforts produced detailed analyses of nuclear hyperfine interactions in
these species and resulted in a number of widely cited classic publications on
this subject.
Professor Dunn served as chair of the chemistry department from
1972-83 and worked energetically to win college and state support for the
construction of a new chemistry building. He was the first chair of the
Budget Priorities Committee in 1972. He chaired the Task Force on Graduate
Student Aid in 1982 and served on numerous advisory and review committees.
He served on the board of directors of the Michigan Research Corporation and
as chair of SACUA from 1991-93. Professor Dunn was a charter member of
the English Composition Board that established English writing requirements
in the College of LS&A.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service
by naming Thomas M. Dunn professor emeritus of chemistry.
Floyd F. Gray, Ph.D., professor of French in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1999.
Professor Gray received his B.A. degree from Syracuse University in 1950
and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Wisconsin in 1952 and
1955, respectively. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan in
1956 as an instructor and was promoted to assistant professor in 1958,
associate professor in 1961, and professor in 1965. During his career, he also
held visiting appointments at the University of Wisconsin, the University of
California at Santa Barbara, Michigan State University, and the University of
Liverpool.
An internationally renowned authority on the literature of the French
Renaissance, Professor Gray is acknowledged as one of the two or three
preeminent North American scholars in this field. He is the author of over
two dozen articles and fifteen books on such authors as Du Bellay, La


359



