
REGULAR MEETING.
1r91.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,   }
ANN ARBOR, Nov. 18, 1891.f
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 A. M.
Present-Regents Clark, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Draper and Cocker.
Absent-Regents Willett and Hebard.
Sundry papers which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the
Board for consideration.
On motion the minutes of the last meeting were
approved as printed.
The President presented and read the following report
of the Executive Committee:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
The Executive Committee beg leave to report as follows:
Owing to the resignation of J. H. T. McPherson of the office
of Instructor in History, it became necessary to appoint a succeessor
to him in the vacation; we therefore appointed Herman V.' Ames,
Ph. D., in the month of August, for the ensuing year at a salary of
$900, as we had satisfactory evidence of his fitness for the post.
CHAS. R. WHITMAN.
W. J. COCKER.
R. W. BUTTERFIELD.
On motion of Regent Clark the report of the Executive Committee was approved by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Clark, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Praper
and Cocker.
Nays-None.




2


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1891.


Regent Clark presented and read the following communication:
VNTIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, November 9, 1891. 
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
I have the honor to report to your Honorable Body that
this Faculty has recommended to you Mr George Morton Walker
for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering, and
Miss Marion McDonald for the degree of Bachelor of Arts.
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. De PONT, Registrar.
On motion of Regent Clark it was voted that the degrees indicated be conferred upon the persons named in
the foregoing communication, in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of
Literature, Science and the Arts.
On recommendation of the Dean of the School of
Pharmacy, Regent Draper moved that the salary of Julius
0. Schlotterbeck, Ph. C., Assistant in Pharmacognosy, be
increased from $300 to $600 for the current year.
The motion of Regent Draper was carried as follows.
Ayes-Regents Clark, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Draper
and Cocker.
Nays-NLone.
On motion of Regent Butterfield it was voted that the
degree of A. B., be conferred upon Charles W. Tufts, A. M.,
as of the class of 1880.
Regent Cocker moved that Professor M. L. D'Ooge,
Director of the Art Museum, be requested to prepare a
new catalogue of the collection, and to print and bind 1000
copies at a cost not exceeding $200.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Clark, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Draper
and Cocker.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, Professor M. L.
D'Ooge was appointed Dean of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts for one year.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1891.


3


This action was taken on the recommendation of the
Literary Faculty.
On motion of Regent Draper the appointment of Dr.
L. P. Hall, Assistant to the Professor of Operative and
Clinical Dentistry, and of Dr. C. G. Darling, Lecturer on
Oral Pathology and Surgery in the Dental College, (see
printed Proceedings page 529,) was limited to one year.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the minutes of the
June meeting were corrected as follows, (see printed
Proceedings, page 546.) Where it is said that the degree
of Bachelor of Arts was conferred upon Richard Langdon
Hubbard, it should read that the degree of Bachelor of
Laws was conferred.
The Proceedings should also show that the degree of
Bachelor of Arts was conferred upon Byron Alfred Finney
as of the class of 1871. This record had been inadvertently omitted.
Regent Draper submitted the following resolutions,
which were adopted unanimously:
Resolved, That the Medical Faculty be authorized to establish
a Training School for Nurses, in connection with the University
Hospital; the number of pupils to be limited to eight, and the
compensation of each not to exceed fifty dollars per year.
Resolved, That the new University Hospital, upon its completion, be kept open continuously during the entire year; and when
the Department of Medicine and Surgery is not in session, the
assistants of the several Clinical Professors take charge of the patients under their respective chiefs without extra compensation.
Resolved, That the matter of the setting apart of one or more
beds in each Clinical Department in the University Hospital to be
free, do lie upon the table, because of lack of funds to enable us to
make the appropriation necessary therefor.
On motion of Regent Draper, the sum of $210 was
appropriated for the purchase of microscopes for use in
the Pathological Laboratory by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Clark, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Draper
and Cocker.
Nays-None.
Regent Draper moved that Aldred S. Warthin, A. M.,




4


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1891.


M. D., be appointed Assistant to the Professor of Theory
and Practice in the Department of Medicine and Surgery
for one year, at a salary of $100.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Clark, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Draper
and Cocker.
Nays-None.
The President stated that owingr to the illness of Dr.
Watling, of the Dental Department, some temporary assistance should be furnished to Dr. Hall in the operating
room. Dr. Hoff; being present, said he would gladly render
the necessary assistance to Dr. Hall without extra compensation, provided he could find a competent person to
take charge of his office one hour every afternoon. The
Board accepted the offer of Dr. Hoff, and said that any expense he found it necessary to incur in making this arrangement should be reported to the Auditing Board for
adjustment.
On motion the Board adjourned to 2 o'clock P. r.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the following resolution passed by the Board at the January meeting in 1878
was rescinded, (See printed Proceedings of 1878, page 182-)
Resolved, That any graduate of any respectalle and recognized
Medical College, who may desire to attend the Medical course in
either of the Medical Schools connected with this University, be
permitted such attendance on the payment of the matriculation fee
only.
On motion of Regent Clark, the question of purchasing the Rominger Collection in the museum was referred to the Finance Con mittee for consideration.
RI3rentI ieter submitted  the following resolution
which was adopted.
Resolved, That the Secretary be instructed to ask thle Faculty
of the Department of Medicine and Surgery, if any, and if so, what
steps have been taken to establish a regular course during each




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1891.


5


winter semester in gross pathology and post-mortem examinations,
and to report to the Board at its next regular meeting.
Re(ent Whitman moved that the salary of Horace
Purfield, Pattern maker in the Engineering Laboratory, be
fixed at $700 for nine months service. The motion was
carried as follows:
Ayes —Regent Clark, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Draper
and Cocker.
Navs — None.
On imotion of Regent Clark, tle Board added to the
title of W. J. Hussey, Instructor in Astronomy, "and
Acting Director of the Observatory."
It being understood that the Grand Army of the Republic, Department of Michigan, would hold its annual
meeting in Ann Arbor during the month of April next,
Regent Whitman moved that the Board tender that
organization the use of University Hall, in which to hold
its meetings.
The motion was carried unanimously.
Regent Clark moved that Assistant Professor J. B.
Davis be made professor of Geodesy and Surveying at a
salary of $2,200, it being understood that he is to report to
Professor Greene.
A call vote being taken on this motion resulted as
follows:
Ayes-Regents Clark, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Draper
and Cocker.
Nays -- None.
On recommendation of the Law     Faculty, Regent
Butterfield  moved that the following persons be appointed Lecturers in the Law Department for the ensuing
year without compensation.
William HI. Howell, Ph.D., M. D., Lecturer on Microscopy
in its Medico-Legal Relations.
Richard Hudson, A. M., Lecturer on Comparative Constitutional Law.
Victor C. Vaughan, Ph. D., M. D., Lecturer on Toxicology
in its Legal Relations.




6


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1891.


Henry C. Adams, Ph. D., Lecturer on the Railroad Problems.
And also that Thomas M. Cooley, L L. D., be asked to deliver
the graduates in the Departinent of Law, in addition to his Lectures on the Inter-State Commerce Law, such lectures upon other
legal or economic questions as he may feel able to deliver; the
question of compensation to be determined at the end of the year.
Regent Butterfield's motion was carried unanimously.
A communication asking the Board to increase the
salary of Professor Stanley, was referred to a special committee consistingc of Re(ents Cocker, Butterfield, and
Clark, for consideration, and report at the next meeting
of the Board.
Regent Clark, chairman of the committee on the
Literary Department, to whom was referred at the last
meeting, a communication from    the Women's Auxiliary
Association, relating to the appointment of women to
chairs of instruction in the University, reported that the
committee had the question under consideration, and
were of the opinion that the matter was of equal interest
to all Departments of the University, and would therefore move that the communication     be referred to the
University Senate for consideration. It was so ordered.
Thefollowing is the report of a special committee
appointed by the Faculty of the Department of Literature,
Science and the Arts, to consider and report upon the
question of University Extension Teaching. Their report
and recommendations were approved. by the Faculty, and
the President was requested to lay the matter before the
Board, for their approval.
ANN ARBOR, Nov. 16, 1891.
The committee appointed to consider the question of University Extension Teaching, beg leave to report that they have had the
whole matter under advisement and have decided on the following
recommendations:
1. That the President be authorized to announce the willingness of this Faculty to undertake the work on the plan outlined in
the Circular submitted herewith.
2. That memblers of the Faculty be requested to prepare be



NO VEMBER MEETING, 1S91.


7


fore Dec. 1st, a statement of courses each is willing to give this
year, for incorporation in this Circular.
3. That the Board of Regents be requested to give their approval to this plan and to authorize officers of Instruction to accept
invitations under such regulations as the Board may deem wise.
Respectfully submitted.
ISAAC N. DEMIMON,
MARTIN L. D'OOGE.
UNIVERSITY OF MICiIII(GAN-. EXTENSION TEACIING. 1891-1892.
The University desiring to assist local bodies in the work
popularly known as University Extension Teaclinog, has arranged
to offer the following courses of instruction. The general plan of
the work will be substantially that adopted by the American Society
for University Extension Teaching at Philadelphia; which may be
briefly outlined as follows:
1. A course of weekly (or hi-weekly) lectures, not less than
six in number, to be given by some lmember of the Faculties.
2. A printed syllabus of the lectures, with exercises for reports in writing by members of tile class, and with references for
collateral reading.
3. Oral quizzes, before or after each lecture, on the subject of
the preceding lecture.
4. A final examination in writing of such persons as desire to
receive certificates of proficiency.
To those who do not take the final examination the extent of
the work will be wholly optional.
(Courses to follow here.)
The University cannot undertake the local orgllanization of
classes; but will await invitation from clubs, societies, or classes,
who may desire to enter upon the work. The entire expense will
have to be borne by tile local organization in each case. This may
be done by lecture-tickets, class-fees, or general subscription. Arrangements as to time, extent, and expense of each Course must be
made for the present with each Professor invited.
On motion of Regent Clark, the scheme presented
above was approved by      the Board, and tie officers of
instruction in the University  were allowed to accept invitations to give the instruction recommended.
On motion the Board adjourned to Dec. 16, 1891.
JAMES 1. WADE,
Secretary.




REGULAR MEETING.
1891.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,    }
ANN ARBOR, December 16, 1891.
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Clark, Willett, Whitman, Kiefer,
Draper, and Cocker.
Absent-Regents Butterfield and Hebard.
On motion of Regent Willett, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
Regent Willett, Chairman of the Finance Committee,
submitted a report on the investment of trust funds,
which was, on motion of Regent Draper, accepted and
placed on file.
Regent Draper moved that the Auditing Board be
authorized to make a voucher for $20 in favor of Regent
Willett for expenses incurred by him in securing a box of
archaeological specimens for the museum. The motion
was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Clark, Willett, Whitman, Kiefer, Draper, and
Cocker.
Nays-None.
Regent Willett, Chairman of the Finance Committee,
to whom was referred the question of the purchase of the
Rominger collection in the museum, reported that the
committee had given the matter careful consideration,
and were of the opinion that it was very desirable that
the University should own this collection, if the Board
could spare the money.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1892.


Regent Draper moved that the Executive, Committee
be authorized to make the purchase for five thousand dollars. A call vote resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Clark, Willett, Whitman, Kiefer, Draper, and
Cocker.
Nays-None.
The President read a communication from the President of the University Musical Society, asking the Boara
to give Professor Stanley a full Professor's salary. The
request was referred to Regent Cocker.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the committee were
requested to wire the President's house for electricity.
Regent Whitman moved that $75 be appropriated for
an assistant in the Laboratory of Electro-Therapeutics.
The motion was carried by the following vote.
Ayes-Regents Clark, Willett, Whitman, Kiefer, Draper, and
Cocker.
Nays-None.
Professor M. L. D'Ooge, Director of the Art Museum,
stated that the sum appropriated by the Board at the
November meeting, for one thousand copies of a catalogue
of the Art collection was not sufficient to do the work.
He also thought that the number should be increased to
two thousand copies, whereupon the Board set apart the
additional sum of $150 for that purpose by the following
vote:
Ayes-Clark, Willett, Whitman, Kiefer, Draper, and Cocker.
Nays-None.
In response to a resolution of the Board, calling on
the Medical Faculty for certain information relating to
the work of practical Pathology in the Department, Dr.
Vaughan,Dean of the Faculty, appeared and submitted in
writing a full report of the work, which was received and
placed on file.
On motion of Regent Willett, the use of University
Hall was tendered to the Press Association of the state
during their annual meeting to be held in Ann Arbor.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1892.            11
A communication was received from the Professors
of Languages, asking that the Board establish a Professorship of Sanscrit and Philology in the University. The
communication was referred to the committee on the
Literary Department for consideration.
On motion of Regent Clark, the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE, SECRETARY.




REGULAR MEETING.
1892.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,  )
ANN ARBOR, JAN. 20, 1892. 
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents     Whitman,    Kiefer, Butterfield,
Cocker, Howard and Cook.
Absent-Regents Draper and Hebar l.
Sundry   communications which     had   reached the
President were referred to appropriate committees of the
Board.
Regent Whitman presented the following report of
the  Executive   Committee, which    was accepted   and
adopted by the full vote of the Board.
ANN ARBOR, January 10, 1892.
The Executive Conmmittee having been instructed at the last
meetingcof the Boardto purclhase Dr. Rominger's Paleontological
Collection for $5,000, beg leave to report that they have discharged
that duty, and that the Secretary holds the receipt of Dr. Rominger
for the sum, and that the collection is now the property of the University. They believe that the price is very low.
JAMES B. ANGELL,
CHAS. R. WHITMAN,
W. J. COCKER.
The President presented and read the following communication:
WASHINGTON, C, D.., 
January 12, 1892.
JAMES B. ANGELL, LL. D.,
President University of Michigan.
Dear Sir-I tender herewith my resignation as Professor of
Astronomy and Director of the Observatory, to take effect at the




14


JANUARY MEETING, 1892.


expiration of my present leave of absence. I do this with very
great regret, for the most of my life, so far, has been spent in the
University. Kindly present to the Board of Regents my sincere
thanks for the kindness and consideration which I have always
received from their hands, and believe me
Respectfully yours,
MARK W. HARRINGTON.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the resignation of Professor Harrington was accepted.
Regent Whitman submitted the following resolution,
which was unanimously adopted by the Board:
Resolved, That we accept the resignation of Mark W. Harrington as Professor of Astronomy and Director of the Observatory. His
many years of eminent service to the University of Michigan give
promise of great value to the Government in the responsible and
honorable position to which he has been called. His promotion
came justly to him in recognition of his ability and reputation as
Professor of Astronomy in this institution. We sincerely regret
that we are obliged to record our acceptance of his resignation.
At the    request of Regent Cocker, the President
appointed Regents Butterfield, Whitman and Cocker a
committee to make a recast of the standing committees
of the Board.
Regent Butterfield, of the special committee appointed to make a recast of the standing committees of
the Board, made the following report, which was adopted.
Executive Committee-The President, Regents Whitman, Butterfield,
and Cocker.
Finance Committee-Regents Cocker, Hebard, and Kiefer.
Committee on Literary Department-Regents Whitman, Cocker, and
Howard.
Commtttee on Law Department-Regents Butterfield, Draper, and
Whitman.
Committee on Medical Department, Homoeopathic College, and Dental
School-Regents Draper, Kiefer, and Butterfield.
Library Committee-Regents Butterfield, Kiefer, Cook, and the
President.
Committee on Museum, School of Mines, and Astronomical Observatory-Regents Kiefer, Hebard, and Cook.




JANUARY MEETING, 1892.


15


Committee on Chemical and Pharmaceutical Department-Regents
Draper, Cook, and Howard.
Buildings and Grounds-Regents Whitman, Draper, and Howard.
Regent Whitman moved, that the Dean of the Literary Department be requested to assist the President in
the detail work of his office, and that the compensation
for such extra service be fixed at the rate of $300 per year.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Kiefer, Butterfield, Cocker, Howard,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
The Professor of Philosophy asked for and obtained
an appropriation of $503.75 for the purchase of instruments for work in the Laboratory of Physiological Psychology, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Kiefer, Butterfield, Cocker, Howard
and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman moved that the salary of Assistant
Engineer Chas. Sanford be increased from $600 to $700.
The motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Kiefer, Butterfield, Cocker, Howard, and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Professor F. W. Kelsey
was appointed curator of the collections in Archaeology
and Ethnology.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the secretary was requested to procure estimates of the cost of two wall cases
to be placed in the museum for the accommodation of the
archaeological collections, and report the same to the
Board at its next meeting.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the following communication from the Faculty of the Homoeopathic Medical College:
ANN ARBOR, January 20, 1892.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-The Faculty of the Homoeopathic College request permission to invite Dr. O. R. Long, Superintendent of the




16


JANUARY MEETING, 1892.


Asylum for Insane Criminals, at Ionia, Mich., to repeat the course
of lectures delivered by him to the Homoeopathic students during
last college year, under the same conditions, viz., without cost to
the University.            Respectfully submitted,
D. A. MAcLACHLAN, Sec.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the permission asked
for in the foregoing communication was granted.
Regent Kiefer moved that the salary of John J. Abel,
Professor of Materia Medica in the Department of Medicine and Surgery, be made $2200 from October 1st, 1892.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Kiefer, Butterfield, Cocker, Howard, and Cook.
Nays-None.
On inotion of Regent Kiefer, it was voted that the
rank of Dr. W. A. Campbell, Demonstrator of Anatomy,
should be that of " Instructor."
Professor F. N. Scott stated that he was asking contributions to a fund to be known as the University Art
Fund; and that already more than one thousand dollars
had been received. He asked the Board to assume the
trusteeship of the fund as they had done in other similar
cases.
On mo tion of Regent Cocker, the Board accepted the
trusteeship of the fund as requested.
The following resolution was submitted by Regent
Whitman, and adopted by the unanimous vote of the
Board.
Resolved, That this Board desires to be explicitly understood
as recognizing the authority of the Faculty of any Department in
the University to expel and exclude students of that Department
from the University Buildings and Grounds, and
Resolved, That Charles T. Griffin be expelled from the University buildings and grounds, and that the steward be directed to
enforce, if necessary, this resolution.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE, Secretary.




REGULAR MEETING.
1892.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,  }
ANN ARBOR, Feb. 23; 1892.
The Board met in the room of the President at 10
o'clock A. M.
Present —Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Howard,
and Cook.
Absent —Regents Butterfield, Hebard, and Draper.
On motion of Regent Whitman the minutes of the
last meeting were approved as printed.
The bids for the erection of a gymnasium building
were opened and their final consideration was deferred
until the next meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Howard, the Board took a recess
until 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
At this meeting Regent Butterfield was present.
Doctors Herdman and Nancrede appeared before the
Board in behalf of the Medical Faculty, and requested the
Board to increase the number in the School of Nurses to
fifteen.
The request of Dr. Herdman for an appropriation of
$75 for the purchase of an electric battery for use in the
Hospital was laid on the table until the next meeting of
the Board.
Regent Whitman moved that the Hospital Committee
be authorized to increase the number in the School of
Nurses to twelve; and that rooms be provided outside the




18


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1892.


Hospital for the added number; and also that the question
of doing the laundry work for the nurses be referred to
the Medical Committee.
The motion of Regent Whitman was carried as follows 
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Howard
and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted.
Resolved, That all earnings of the several departments be paid
directly each month, and as much oftener as practicable, to the
Treasurer of the University, and credited to the General Fund, and
that all vouchers state specifically for what purpose money is expended.
Regent Whitman moved that the sum of $500 be set
apart as a guarantee fund for the publication of the University Record, and that the compensation of the editor
be fixed at $200. This motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regent Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Howard,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Cocker submitted the following as the conditions on which the Board would accept the trusteeship of
the University Art Fund, which was adopted by the full
vote of the Board.
The Board of Regents agree that they will become trustees of
all moneys which have been raised for the University Art Fund, so
called, by Prof. Scott, or by other means, or which may be raised;
that all such money be paid to the Treasurer of this Board to be
credited by him to this special fund and to be managed under the
care of the Finance Committee of the Board.
That it shall be expended to the amount of the first one thousand dollars, under the direction of the President of the University,
the Librarian, and such member of the Literary Faculty as shall
have charge of the courses in the general Theory of Art, or such
person of expert knowledge as the President of the University may
designate.




FEBR UAR Y MEETING, 1892.


19


That all money above the said one thousand dollars which is in
or may come into this fund, shall be invested under the direction of
the said Finance Committee, and only the interest thereon may be
expended by or under the direction of the parties above named.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the Library Committee were authorized to send such duplicate books and
pamphlets as could be spared, without inconvenience to
the Library, to the University of Missouri whose library
was recently consumed by fire.
Regent Whitman presented and read the following
communication from Professor W. H. Pettee and Mr. W. H.
Sherzer, relating to field work for the classes in Geology;
and also the resolution of the Faculty of the Department
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, relating to the same
subject, all of which was considered in detail and approved
by the Board.
ANN ARBOR, February 23,1892.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
The undersigned respectfully request that you will consider the
advisability of giving to such of our students as are qualified to do
the work with profit, a course in geological field work, provided the
demand is sufficient to justify such action. The request is made at
this time for the reason that it seems to be practicable to enter into
a satisfactory arrangement with the Faculty of the Michigan Mining
School, under which our students may, for the present, at least, do
this work in common with the field classes organized in that school;
for which, it may be said, that school makes no charge for tuition.
The proposed work would cover about six weeks of the summer
vacation, this time being chosen because it affords better opportunity for field work than can be found in any other season of the
year. There has been in years past a lack of practical work of this
nature in the courses in geology offered by the University, and it
seems to us that the geological department can be strengthened,
and the best interests of the University subserved, by extending the
facilities for study in geology beyond what can be offered in term
time, while the students are engaged in class-room work in other
subjects.
If this proposition meets your approval, we recommend that
the course, or courses, authorized be put in charge of some officer
of the University, and that further details of arrangement with the
Mining School, and the terms on which the work done may be




20             FEBRUARY MEETING, 1892.
counted toward graduation, be left to the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science and the Arts.
Respectfully submitted,
WM. I1. PETTEE,
W. H. SHERZER.
The following is a copy of a resolution adopted by the
Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the
Arts:
Resolved, That the Faculty of the Department of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, approve the foregoing, memorial to the Board
of Regents, signed by Professor Pettee and Mr. Sherzer; but with
the express understanding that this approval does not indicate any
change in the general policy of the Faculty in regard to allowing
credit toward graduation for work done in the summer vacation.
The nature of the proposed course gives it an exceptional character.
On motion the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE, Secretary.




REGULAR MEETING.
1892.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, March 16, 1892.}
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Keifer, Butterfield. Draper, Cocker
and Cook.
Absent-Regents Hebard and Howard.
Sundry papers which had reached the President were
refeyred to appropriate committees of the Board.
On motion of Regent'Butterfield the minutes of the
last meeting were approved.
At the last meeting of the Board, the Librarian was
directed to select such duplicate books as could be spared
without inconvenience to the; General Library, and send
them to the University of Missouri, whose Library had recently been consumed by fire. The following is a list of
the bdoks sent:
Duplicates in the General Library that may, without inconvenience, be sent to the Missouri University to aid in replacing their
library, recently consumed by fire,Emory's Reconnoissance of New Mexico.
Henderson-Jefferson's Views on Education.
Columbia College, 1875-76.
U. S. Geological Survey of Wyoming, 1870-Hayden.
U. S. Geological Survey of Montana, 1871-Hayden.
Cochin-Results of Slavery.
Annual Report of the Coast Survey, 1851.
Sullivant-Protection to Native Industry.
Statistics of Railways in the United States, 1888 and 1889. 2 vols.
Browne and Taylor-Mineral Resources of the U. S.




22


MARCH MEETING, 1892.


Interoceanic Railroads and Canals.
Brande & Taylor's Chemistry, 1867.
Paris Universal Exposition, 1878. 5 vols.
Hoyt-Report on Education. Paris Exposition, 1867.
Bulletin of the National Association of Wool Manufacturers.
3 vols., unbound.
Report on Education in Alaska, 1886.
Wentworth-Elements of Algebra.
Xenophon's Anabasis-Ed; Boise.
Morris-English Grammar. (Literature Primers.)
Lytton-The Coming Race.
Ray-Elements of Algebra.
Winslow- -Intellectual Philosophy.
Daries-Elements of Surveying.
Synonyms of Volunteer Organizations in the U. S., 1861-1865.
Cushing's Manual of Parliamentary Practice.
Russell-My Diary North and South.
Turner-Chemistry. Ed. by Bache.
Alabama Claims-Case of the United States.
American Almanac, 1843.
Tacitus-Germania and Agricola. Ed. by Tyler. In all 37 vols.
Copies of Theses for degree of Ph. D., 13 pieces.
Miscellaneous pamphlets, 75.
R. C. DAVIS,
Librarian.
Regent Draper presented the request of the Professor
of Botany, that the Board appoint another assistant in his
department. The request was denied.
Regent Kiefer presented the request of the Medical
Faculty that the Board rank the Demonstrator of Anatomy
as an Assistant Professor, and that an appropriation of
$100 be made to secure an additional Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy for the rest of this year. On motion
the request was laid on the table.
The Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery gave notice that William P. Walter had completed
the required work in that department, and was recommended for the degree of M. D.
On motion of Regent Draper, the degree was conferred as recommended.




MARCH MEETING, 1892.


23


Regent Cocker, Chairman of the Finance Committee,
presented and read a statement of the financial condition
of the University at the present time; and also an estimate of the condition of the fund on the 31st day of December next. The figures showed a probable deficit at
that date of about $20,000.
On motion of Regent Draper, the Board took up the
consideration of questions relating to the Gymnasium.
It was found that the tenders so far exceeded the money
in hand, that the Board could not enter into contract for
the completed building. It was therefore decided that the
Secretary should ask the several bidders to submit amended
bids on the following lines:
1. For laying the entire foundation and enclosing the
building.
2. For laying the entire foundation and enclosing the
building for young men only.
3. For laying the foundation and enclosing the building for young men.
This work to include the frame work for the running
track in place, and all partitions set and ready for plastering.
Alderman L. P. Hall appeared before the Board and
renewed the request of the City Council, that the Board
set apart two free beds in the Hospitals for the use of the
City. Regent Draper made the following statement in
which the Board concurred.
That however much the Board might desire to meet the wishes
of the Council in this matter, yet in view of the great pressure upon
the Board for additional room to accommodate the Professors and
the large number of patients now in the Hospitals; and also in view
of the straitened condition of the finances of the University at this
time, the Board does not see their way clear to grant this request at
the present time.
Regent Cocker moved that J. O. Reed, Ph. D., be ap
pointed assistant to the Professor of Physics for the rest
of the year, and that he be paid $300 for such service.
This motion was carried by the following vote:




24             MARCH MEETING, 1892.
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, Draper, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the Secretary was
instructed to notify the Hospital Commitlee that the Board
does not desire the employment of aly more nurses in the
hospital after this date.
On motion the Board adjourned to April 1st, 1892.
JAMES H. WADE, Secretary.




REGULAR MEETING.
1892.
UNIVERSITY OF MICITIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, April 9, 1892.S
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock A. M.
Present - Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield,
Cocker, and Cook.
Absent-Regents Hebard, Draper, and Howard.
On motion of Regent Whitman the Board went into
executive session, and took up the consideration of bids
for the ereotion of a gymnasium    building. These bids
were submitted on three different lines, as follows:
1. To enclose the entire building.
2. To enclose the main building and put in the foundation of the woman's wing.
3. To enclose the main building only.
The following propositions were submitted:
Wallace and Morris, of Detroit,        1st $47,760.00.
2d   39,000.00.
3d   36,000.00.
William Bi2gs, Ann Arbor,              1st $53,353.59.
2d   42,183.08.
3d   40,133.89.
J. H. Holmes, Bay City,                1st $57,137.40.
2d   46,153.61.
3d   43,021.25.
J. L. Gearing and Sons, Detroit,       1st $47,286.00.
2d   38,673.00.
3d   35,828.00.




26


APRIL MEETING, 1892.


On motion of Regent Whitman, the Committee on
Buildings and Grounds were authorized to accept the
third proposition of J. L. Gearing and Sons, and to enter
into a contract with them; which contract is then to be
signed by the President and Secretary of the Board. After
which said Committee are directed and authorized to proceed with the work of construction; to enforce the contract; to approve the monthly estimates for the payment
and settlement of all contracts; and control and do all
things that the Board could do, that are necessary to the
completion of the building ordered by the Board of Regents at this time.
On motion of Regent Kiefer Professor Charles Gatchell
was granted leave of absence from May 20tl to Oct. 1st,
1892, to go to Europe, provided he make arrangements
satisfactory to the Board for carrying his college work
during his absence.
Regent Kiefer announced that lie had in his possession
a communication from the Faculty of the Department of
Medicine and Surgery, which he would hold until the next
meeting of the Board.
Regent Cocker moved that the seats in the amphitheatre of the new Homoeopathic Hospital be changed, as
requested by the Faculty, provided it does not cost to exceed $100.
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion the Board adjourned to May 18.
JAMES H. WADE, Secretary.




REGULAR MEETING.
1892.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,  }
ANN ARBOR, May 18, 1892.
The Board assembled in the office of the President at
10 o'clock, A. M.
Present, Regents Kiefer,Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker,
Cook, and Howard,
Absent, Regents Hebard and Draper.
On motion Treasurer Soule was appointed Secretary
pro tern.
Several communications in the hands of the President
were referred to the appropriate committees of the Board.
On motion of Regent Cocker the proceedings of the
last meeting as printed were approved.
Regent Butterfield laid before the Board the report
of the University Senate on a proposition of the Women's Auxiliary Association communicated to the Board
in October, 1891. The Association desired the approbation of the Regents of a plan to raise funds, which should
be held by the Association, and the income thereof should
be used in paying salaries of women, whom the Regents
should elect members of the University Faculties. The
Regents asked the opinion of the Senate, who after consideration of the subject adopted the following resolution.
Resolved, That it is the sense of the University Senate that the
Board of Regents should not consent to an agreement to the appointment of instructors in the University, to be compensated for
their services from the income of any fund not placed absolutely
under the control of the Regents; and that it would be bad policy




28


MAY MEETING, 1892.


for the Regents to undertake to appoint officers whose salaries are
to be paid by another and an independent corporation.
So far as it appeared no funds had been raised.
Regent Butterfield moved that the communication
fromthe Association lie on the table, and the motion was
unanimously adopted,
On motion of Regent Whitman the sum of $75 was appropriated to pay an assistant to Prof. J. B. Davis in the
field work of his class for the next six weeks.
The vote was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook,
and Howard.
Nays-None.
Regent Butterfield introduced the following preamble
and resolutions:
WHEREAS, On the request of a majority of the quorum of the
Board now present, University Hall was last evening opened to
the University Republican Club, on condition that the Club should
not again ask or be granted the use of it at any time in the future;
Resolved, That the President and the Steward be authorized to
permit the other University Political Clubs each the same privilege
once.
Resolved, Further, that, with these exceptions, the use of University Hall be in the future refused to political clubs or for political
purposes.
The preamble and resolutions were adopted by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook,
and Howard.
Nays-None.
Regent Cocker moved that the unexpended balance
of the appropriation of $500 made last year for the use of
Prof. Reighard in connection with the labors of the State
Fish Commission, this balance being about $250, be expended under the direction of the Library Committee for
books specially adapted to the labors of the Fish Commission.
The motion was adopted by the following vote:




MA Y MEETING, 1892.


29


Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook and
Howard.
The Board took a recess until 2 o'clock, P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
Regent Kiefer called attention to the fact that in the
Regents' Proceedings for the June meeting 891, page 527,
the action of the Board in changing the title of Prof. John
J. Abel from Lecturer to Professor of Materia Medica and
Therapeutics was announced, but by an inadvertence the
statement was not added that his salary was fixed at
$2,200. He moved to amend the record by adding to the
printed statement these words, "with a salary of $2,200
from October 1st, 1891."
The vote upon this motion was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Professor Abel was
granted leave of absence from the 10th of June.
The motion was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Dr. C. G. Huber was appointed Assistant Professor of Histology from October 1st,
1892, at a salary of $1,600.
The motion was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
Professor Ford having tendered to the University the
gift of a valuable anatomical collection for the Dental
Museum, the gift was accepted and the President was directed to express the thanks of the Board for it.




30


MAY MEETING, 1892.


A communication was received from Professor Ford
tendering his resignation of the Chair of Anatomy.
It was laid upon the table for the present.
Regent Butterfield for the Medical Committee introduced the following resolution:
Resolved, That the request of the Medical Faculty for the
establishment of six new courses of practical work for junior
students, and for the appointment of four Demonstrators to do the
work of instruction, at a salary not to exceed $500 each; and the
further requests, that students taking such courses be required to pay
$25 for six courses, or $5 for each course, that the expenses of such
courses shall be paid out of the proceeds of the fees received therefor, and that such demonstrators shall not have any claim against
the Board of Regents for such salary, but that in case the net proceeds of such courses shall not equal the total amount of their
salaries, they shall receive only their proportion of the proceeds
thereof actually paid in, less the other necessary expenses of such
courses, and furthermore, that in addition to the fees above specified students shall be required to pay for all material used in the
courses herein furnished, be granted.
The resolution was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays None.
Regent Kiefer moved that the Medical Faculty be
authorized to establish three practical courses, not exceeding six weeks, for graduate students in medicine, at a cost
of $10 for instruction in each course, the student in addition
to pay for the material used as undergraduate students
do; and that the Faculty be authorized to announce such
courses in the Annual Announcement of the Department.
The motion was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
Mr. John R. Rogers, of Rome, Italy, having written
that the casts of the bronze doors of the Capitol at Washington, which his father, the late Randolph Rogers had
inutn,                                         Z




MAY MEETING, 1892.


31


presented to the University, were ready for shipment, it
was moved by Regent Cocker that they be shipped at the
expense of the University.
The motion was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman of the Committee on Buildings and
Grounds introduced the following resolution:
Resolved, That the directors of the University Athletic Association shall have control of the Athletic Field for the remainder of
the college year under the general direction of the Advisory Board;
Provided, That they keep the grounds in good repair and keep them
properly sprinkled during the summer season, and, Provided, That
the grounds shall not be rented or let to any organization or person
not connected with the University; it being understood also that
the Association shall be entitled to the gate receipts.
The resolution was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman moved that the water-pipe be put
in from the street to the grand stand on the Athletic
Grounds by the University.
The motion was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman, for the Committee on the Literary
Departments, made a report adverse to the appointment
of Associate Professors.
The motion was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Whitman, for the Committee on
the Literary Department, Professor Kelsey's request for




32


MA Y MEETING, 1892.


leave of absence for the coining year was granted, it being
understood that his salary lapses during his absence.
The motion was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield,. Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman also moved that Assistant Professor
John C. Rolfe, Ph. D., be appointed Acting Professor of
Latin for the coming year, having charge of the Latin Department, his salary being $2,200.
The motion was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman moved that Professor Hudson be
granted leave of absence for the coming year, and that
David E. Spencer be appointed Acting Professor of History for the same time, it being understood that Professor
Hudson will receive his salary and arrange for the payment of Acting Professor Spencer, and that Professor McLaughlin will have general charge of the Department of
History.
The motion was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Fred M. Taylor, Ph. D.,
was appointed Assistant Professor of Political Economy
and Finance, from October 1st, 1892, at a salary of $1,600.
The motion was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
A communication from Professors D'Ooge and Kelsey,
concerning instructors in the classics was laid on the table
until the next meeting.




MAY MEETING, 1892.


33


On motion of Regent Butterfield, Professor Nathan
Abbott, who has served as Tappan Professor of law during
this year, was permanently appointed to that office at a
salary of $2,000, his term to begin Oct. 1st, 1892..
The motion was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Whitman, of the Committee of
the Literary Department, the following appointments were
made for the coming year:
Geo. Herbert Rowe, B. S., Instructor in Electrical Engineeriug;
salary, $900.
John O. Reed, Ph. M., Instructor in Physics; salary, $900.
W. R. Miller, Mechanician; salary, $700.
The motion was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Cook, Mr. Perry T. Trowbridge
was appointed Assistant in the Chemical Laboratory
for next year at a salary of $200.
The tollowing communication was received from Professor Prescott.
To the Honorable Board of Regents.
Gentlemen: The following named articles are required for use
of students in the Chemical Laboratory:
1 Analytical Balance, Tromner's No. 6. Aluminium. Offered at
$121.50; also at $121.00.
1 Set Analyt. Weights, 100 grams to 0.001. Tromner's. Offers:
$12.86 and $11.20.
1 Polariscope, with tubes with water jacket for thermometer. Gerhardt's. Catalogue, No. 3020. Offers: $91.42, and $83.00.
Taking lowest offers, the three articles can be obtained for
$215.20.                   Respectfully,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT.
On motion of Regent Cook, the articles were ordered
purchased.




34


MA Y MEETING, 1892.


The motion was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-' None.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the salaries of the
following Assistants in the general library were fixed for
the coming year as follows:
Fred P. Jordan,...                 $900.
A. H. Hopkins,                              900.
B. A. Finney,...                     900.
The motion was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Howard it was voted that a sum
not exceeding $100 be and is hereby appropriated for the
use of the committee on the exhibit at the World's Fair in
making their preparations.
The motion was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Whitman, of the Committee on
the Literary Department, the following elections were
made to date from October 1st, 1892.
Asaph Hall, jr., Professor of Astronomy and Director of the
Observatory, at a salary of $2200 with the use of the residence and
grounds attached to the Observatory.
Israel C. Russell, Professor of Geology at a salary of $2200.
The motion was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman, of the Committee on Buildings
and Grounds, stated that it was found necessary to add
some additional rock coursing in the foundation of the




MAY MEETING, 1892.


35


gymnsasium building and that the work could be done by
the contractor for the sum of $414.
The change was ordered made by the following vote:
Ayes —Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the following persons were appointed Instructors in French for the coming:
year, at a salary of $900:
Benjamin P. Bourland, A. M.
John R. Effinger, Ph. B.
The motion was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook
and Howard.
Nays-None.
The President informed the Board that legal papers
had been served on Regent Whitman, the President. and
the Secretary, in a suit for damages growing out of a claim
of non-payment on the part of the contractor for material
used in the construction of the new hospital.
By vote of the Board, Regent Whitman was directed
to act as their attorney in attending to the c:se.
The Board adjourned.
H. SOULE,
Secretary (pro ternpore).




REGULAR MEETING.
1892.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,   )
ANN ARBOR, June 28, 1892.2
The Board assembled ill the room of the President at
10 o'clock A. M.
Present —Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook, and Howard.
Absent-Regent Hebard and Draper.
Several communications which had reached the President were referred to appropriate committees of the Board.
The President presented and read the following communication from Prof. M. L. D'Ooge, Curator of the Art
Museum:
ANN ARBOR, June 28, 1892.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
Dear Sirs.-I have the honor to inform you that an oil portrait
of the late Dr. Abram Sager, who was Professor of the Diseases of
Women and Children in the Medical Department from 1850 to 1874,
has been presented to the Gallery of the University by his daughters, Miss Sager and Mrs. Hardy, on behalf of their mother, the
late Mrs. Sager.             Very truly yours,
M. L. D'OOGE, Curator.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the Board accepted the
portrait of Dr. Abran Sager, and requested the President
to convey to Miss Sager and Mrs. Hardy their grateful
acknowledgments for the same.
The President submitted the following report of the
Executive Committee, which was adopted:




38


JUNE MEETING, 1892.


ANN ARBOR, June 28, 1892.
To the Board of Regents;
The Executive Committee desire to make the following report: Professor H. C. Adams wished to have appointed two weeks
ago two men as Assistants ih Political Economy rather than to have
the vacancy to the Instructorship in that department of work filled
by the appointment of an Instructor. In order to make a needed
anrouncement of the details of work it seemed desirable to make
the appointments at once, subject to your approval. We thereupon
appointed, for one year, Charles H. Cooley, Assistant in Political
Economy at the salary of $500, and Frank H. Dixon Assistant in
Political Econromy at the salary of $400. The two salaries equal
that of an Instructor.
Respectfully submitted,
JAMES B. ANGELL,
CHARLES R. WHITMAN,
R. W. BUTTERFIELD,
W. J. COCKER.
Tile following communication was received from tile
Dean of tlie Faculty of the Department of L'nw
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Gentlemen.-The following named persons, having completed
all the requirements of the Law Department, are hereby recommended by the Faculty for the degrees indicated.
Respectfully,
J. C. KNOWLTON. Dean.


MASTER OF LAWS.


Patrick James Cosgrave, LL.B.,
Alfred Job Davis, LL.B.,
Hallie C. Ellis, LL.B.,
Pierre Peyre Ferry, LL.B.,
Abram Lynn Free, LL.B.,
Ar hur Kingsley Holmes, LL.B.,
Harry Eugene Hooker, LL.B,
Thomas W. Hughes, LL.B.,
Harry Dimick Jewell, LL.B.,
Arthur Jay Kendall, I,I,.B,
George Abiathar Kendall, LL.B.,


Yojiro Kuwabara, LL.B.,
English Royal Institution.
Jehu Baker Middlecoff, LL.B..
George Washington Pierson, LL.B.,
Michael Roach, LL.B.,
William Henry Sears, LL.B.,
University of Kansas.
Eli Ransom Sutton, LL.B.,
Will Frank Wanless, LL.B,
Arthur Percival Will, LL.B.,
Gingiro Yoshimura, LL.B.,
Royal English Institution.


20


BACIIEIOR OF LAWS.
James Henry Adams, A. B.,      John Jarvis Aldrich,
Coe College.




JUNE MEETING, 1892.


39


Robert Anderson,
Louis Armstrong,
Flor Ashbaugh,
William Asher Atwell,
Joseph Thomas Atwood,
Edward William Austin, B. L.,
University of Wisconsin,
George Edward Ayres,
Edwin Green Babcock,
Osmond Tower Barnes,
Herbert Ellwood Baskerville,
William Arthur Beasly,
John Jerome Bennett, A. B.,
St. Mary's College.
Clarence Vanderburgh Benson, B.
Colorado Agricultural College.
George Viley Berry,
Patrick Austin Berry,
William Arthur Bither, B. S.,
Northern Indiana University.
John A. Bolard,
Fenton Whitlock Booth,
William Patterson Borland,
Camden Bretz,
John Daniel Ross Bronson,
Elmer DeWitt Brothers,
Lee Nathan Brown,
Jeremiah Watson Browning,
Theodore Bruere, Jr.,
Alfred Budge,
George Horatio Burchard, A. B.,
University of South Dakota.
James Francis Burke,
Jean La Rue Burnett,
David Edward Burns,
Edward Mayo Burst,
Thomas W. Butler,
Henry Magnus Butzel, Ph. B.,
Andrew Lamar Campbell,
William Jay Carbaugh,
William Stanton Card,
Mark Chamberlin,
Fred Llewellyn Chappell, B. S.,
Michigan Agricultural College.
Fenimore Chatterton,
Herbert Ward Childs,
Edwin Alonzo Church,
Bert Ralph Clark,
Elmer Hinkley Clement,
Benjamin Franklin Clough,
Aylmer Cole,


Edwin Grant Coleman,
John Archibald Coleman,
Frank Combes,
Almon Ward Copley,
William Joseph Coulson, Ph. B.,
College of Emporia.
David Alpheus Crall,
George Oren Crane,
John Quincy Adams Crosby,
George Herbert Cross,
William Perry Crotser,
George M. Davis,
William Davis,
John William Dawson, B. S..
S.,   Christian College.
Clinton Leroy Dayton,
Frank Thomas Dempsey,
Michael Angelo Dempsey, A. B.,
St. Vincent's College.
Dennis Sullivan Donahue,
James Eugene Duffy, B. L.,
Charles Pinckney Dunbaugh,
Benjamin Charles Durall,
John William Dwyer,
George Agler Eberly,
Monroe Justus Echols,
Osmond Ellingson,
Victor Moreau Elting, A. B.,
Columbia College.
John George Erdlitz,
Colston Williams Estey,
Walter Bennett Evans,
Alvin Enoch Ewing,
Anthony Thomas Faber,
Elijah Farr,
Dwight Henry Fitch,
Elmer Sherman Follmer,
Frank Lincoln Fowler,
Tliomas Fran,is Fox, B. S.
Santa Clara College.
Nelson Elwood Freer,
John George Friedmeyer,
Takenosuke Furuya,
Thomas Joseph Gaffey,
Franklin Henry Gale,
Horatio Vallandigham Gard,
Will Henry Giltner, A. B.,
Eminence College.
James Thomas Gordon,
William Charles Gottman,
Frank L. Grant,




40


JUNE MEETING, 1892.


Alexander William Gravelle,
Lewis Henry Greenwood, B. S.,
Washburn College.
Schuyler Adam Haas,
Charles Maltravis Haft,
Jesse Eddy Hall,
Richard Addison Hall,
Thomas Hallett,
Fred David Hammond,
Herbert Lincoln Harley,
Edward Patrick Harney,
James Harrington,
John Albion Harmon,
Edward E. Harriott,
Charles Kellogg Hart,
George Maurice Harton, Ph. B.,
Adrian College.
Walter Miles Harvey,
Frank Bellows Hawk,
Edward Ralph Heard,
John Henry Herley,
George Hoadly,
Frederick William Hoebel,
Franklin James Hole,
William Tell Hollenbeck,
John Stuart Williams Holloway,
William Lawson Holloway,
Charles Orlando Holly,
Francis Triplett Hord,
William Thomas Horden,
Eber Perley Hotchkiss,
Fred Allison Howe,
George Erasmus Howes, Jr.,
John Warren Hunter,
John Courtney Hurspool,
Achirah Ito,
Robert Ross Jamison,
George Alba Jeffers,
Willis Valentine Jefferson,
Julie Regula Jenney,
Robert Francis Jess,
George Clarke Johnson,
Ernest Fenwick Johnstone,
Isaac Lincoln Jones,
George Libni Kelley,
Maris T. Kendig,
John Francis Kennedy,
Philip Markham Kerridge,
Guy Byron Killen,
Joseph Kirwin,
John Knauf,


Will Alanson Koon,
Joseph George Kral,
Elner Leamond Lane,
Eugene Francis Law, B. S.,
Michigan Agricultural College.
Thomas Lawry,
Clarence Asa Lawson,
Charles Miller Lemmon, A. B.,
Mt. Union College.
Wilson David Lett, B. S.,
Wauseon College.
Milton Elisha Lewis, A. B.,
University of Omaha.
Frank Albert Lindbergh,
Albert Isadore Loeb,
William Devinney Lukehart,
William Pitt Luther,
Thomas Richard Lyons,
Russell Trail MacFall,
Alex Charles Mackenzie,
John Maley,
John Michael Manley,
Walter Irving Man-y,
Rody Patterson Marshall,
Albert Martin, A. B.,
Kentucky Wesleyan College.
Frank Martin,
William Jesse May,
Samuel McKean McCalmont,
Alexander Donald McCarty,
John Hemphill McCorkle,
John M. McGill,
Newton Jaspar McGuire,
Angus Alexander McLaughlin, B. S.,
Iowa Agricultural College.
Harry L. McNeil,
Walter Dale Meals,
Sherman Tecumseh Mears, B. S.,
Cornell College.
James Franklin Meeker,
William Edgar Menoher,
William Wallace Merritt, Jr.,
Le Grand Theodore Meyer,
Charles Richard Moore,
Frank Cleveland Moore,
George Emanuel Morgan,
Thomas Arthur Morrin,
Aaron William Morris,
Cramer Bismark Morris,
Oscar Wood Moyle, Ph. B.,
Clayton Loren Murphy, B. S.,
Fayette University.




JUNE MEETING, 1892.


41


Hugh Ayers Myers,
Mack Nichols,
Ernest Dudley Nickerson,
Simon Alexander Niebuhr,
Thomas Nolan,
George Morris O'Connor,
Charles Eugene Olver,
Lester Samuel Overholt,
Alvin Julian Padgett,
George Enoch Pardee,
Melvin Benjamin Parmely, Jr.,
George Robert Patterson,
James Laferty Patterson,
Newton Henry Peer,
John Wesley Pennington, B. S.,
Ada University.
Pierce Jeremiah Phelan,
Howard Phillips,
Frank Milton Pierce,
William Monroe Pindell,
William Thomas Polkinghorn,
Hervey Meek Porter,
Lyman Theodore Powell,
Walter Harriman Prescott,
Albert Reinhold Pudewa,
Morgan Bates Pulcipher,
Miles James Purcell,
Abraham Jay Randall,
George Jost Reiner,
James Washington Reynolds,
William Henry Reynolds,
Jesse Elmer Roberts,
Horton Clifford Rorick,
Gentaro Sabata,
Elias Daniel Salsbury,
Albert Edward Sanderson,
Hazen Irwin Sawyer,
Joseph Sears, Jr.,
Arthur Henry Seymour,
Walter La Forest Shank,
Peter Sharpe, B. S.,
North Dakota University.
Ralph Martin Shaw, A. B.,
Yale University.
Fred Arthur Sheldon,
Elmer Ellsworth Shields,
Herbert Bradlsh Shoemaker, A. B.,
Albert Philips Simpson,
Howard Jay Slagle,
Horatio Buck Smith,
Hyrum Alma Smith,


Leon Alberti Smith,
Perry Smith, Jr.,
William Andrew Smith,
Frank Albert Spies,
Victor DeForest Sprague,
Howard Dexter Stannard,
Grant Steele,
William Sherman Steele, A. B.;
Hamilton College.
Isaac John Stewart,
Samuel White Stewart,
Ralph Stone, A. B.,
Swarthmore College,
D Storms,
Daniel Edward Storms,
John Jones Street,
Edward Albert Stricker, B. S.,
Michigan Agricultural College.
Will Parker Story,
Charles Elmer Sturtz,
Dennis Parnell Sullivan,
Patrick William Sullivan,
George Andrew Sutherland,
Genko Tanaka,
Charles Howard Thomas,
Robert Foster Thompson,
Willard Dawson Thompson,
Robert Gurdon Thomson, A. M.,
University of Missouri.
Harry Montford Ticknor,
Samuel Treby,
Victor Allen Trook,
Frank Pierce Tscharner,
William Arthur Turner,
John Arthur Van Arsdale, A.B.,
Edwin Hudson Waite,
John Henry Walker,
Neil Richard Walsh,
Clarence Griffin Washburn,
John C. Waters,
Joseph Fred Webb,
Daniel Weber,
Arthur Webster,
Francis Joseph Welsh,
Frank Maury Wells,
Frank Lewis Welsheimer,
Alvin Fernando Wentworth,
Robert Cochran Wertz,
James Harvey Whitely,
George Pentzer Whitsett,
Kirk Edward Wicks,




42


JUiNE MEETING, 1892.


Edwin John Wilber,
George Orville Williams,
George Bruce Wilson,
Matthew Raleigh Wilson,
William Luther Winn,


Benjamin Bourdett Wood,
Henry Lester Wood,
Herbert Leonard Woodworth,
Daniel Wright Yancey,
William Elmore Young, A.B.,
Ohio Normal University.


290


On motion of Regent Butterfield, it was voted that
the degrees of Master of Laws and Bachelor of Laws be
conferred upon the persons named in the foregoing communication, in accordance with the recommendation of
the Faculty of the Department of Law.
The following communication was received from the
Dean of the Department of Medicine and Surgery:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Gentlemen.-The following named persons having completed
all the requirements of the Department of Medicine and Surgery
are hereby recommended by the Faculty for the degree of Doctor
of Medicine.
Respectfully,
V. C. VAUGHAN, DEAN.


Ezra T. Abbott,
Joseph L. Abt,
Arvid Andersson,
Clayton W. Armitage,
Victor Bodine Ayers,
Nettle Estella Bainbridge,
Emil Fred Baur, Jr.,
Thomas Edward Beaupre,
Bertram Henry Beckwith,
William Herman Bell,
Emily Augusta Benn, A. B.,
Thomas Blair,
James Henry Bogan,
William Knapp Branch,
George Henry Brash,
John Aaron Broberg,
George Washington Burrier,
Wilson Canfield,
Henrietta A. Carr,
Angus Raymond Carton,
John Baptist Casello,
Shadrach Chaffin,
Starr King Church, Ph. C.,
Lemuel Churchill, B. S.,
Michigan Agricultural College.
Orton Horace Clark,
Charles Dewitt Colby,


Joseph Franklin Condon,
Emma Diantha Cook,
Norman Kershaw Cox, D. D. S.,
Daniel Devine Cunningham, LL. B.,
George Robert Curran, B. S.,
Carleton College.
George Smith Davenport,
John Halvor Dent,
Fred Norton Dewey, A. M.,
Hillsdale College.
Stewart McLellan Doherty,
Charles Edgar Dorrance,
Homer Corbett Edwards,
Charles Howard Emery,
Edwin Robert Espie,
Edward Norton Ewer,
Royal Twombly Farrand,
Anna Maria Flynn,
Augustus William Foy,
Lucy Woodward Gardner,
Howard Bishop Garner,
Hugh William Graham,
George Willard Green,
Ernest William Haass,
Clarence Wilkie Harris,
Charles Meigs Harrison,
John Henry Hauptmann,




JUNE MEETING, 1892.


43


George Stanton Hollister,
William Amos Holt,
James Eldrid Hosmer,
Lulu May Hudson, B. L.,
Ohio Wesleyan University,
Frank Blair Humphreys,
James Walter Irwin,
Henry Milnor Joy,
Leo Ray Keeney,
Mary Anna Kimball,
Julius James Klein,
Theophil Klingmann, Ph. C.,
Theresa Knauf,
Peter John Livingstone.
Edward Carter Lyman,
Frank Lyons,
William Arthur MacGugan,
Peter Duncan MacNaughton,
Webster Clark Martin,
Reuben Maurits,
James Edward Maxwell,
David McClirg,
George Washington Moran,
Herman George Niermann, Ph. C.
Peter Juul Noer, B. S.,
University of Wisconsin.
Walter Noyes,
James Donoldson Parker, A. B.,
Upper Iowa University.
Wallace Asahel Parker, A. B.,
Harvard University.
A4bert Summerfield Payne,
Clyde Phillips Platts,


Henry John Poppen,
Albert Eugene Powell,
Frank Randolph,
Augustus Walter Reed,
Samuel Beatty Robb,
Don Alphonso Root,
William Anderson Royer,
Frank Ernest Ruggles,
John Schee,
Edwin Elmer Sheffield, Ph. B.,
Denison University,
Henry Stults Sheffield,
Rachel Anna Groff Smith,
Richard Root Smith,
Jeanne Cady Solis,
LeRoy Southmayd,
Julia lone Stannard,
Herbert Otto Statler,
George William Stewart,
George Frank Suker,
John Nelson Swartz,
Herbert Thurtell,
Henry Charles Valentine,
Edward Crawford Warren,
John Davis Watterson,
Dirk John Werkman, A. B.,
Hope College.
William Walter Wertenberger,
Jacob Frederick Wesh,
Joseph Burgess Whinery, Ph. C.,
Annie Wells Williams,
Hubert Wallace Wilson,
John Graham Wilson.


Ill


On motion of Regent Kiefer, it was ordered that the
degrees recommended ill the foregoing communication be
conferred.
On motion the Board adjourned to 2 o'clock p. m.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the following communication.
To the Honorable Board of Regents of IT. of M.:
The following named persons having complied with the requirements of this Department are recommended by the Faculty of




44.JUNE MEETING, 1892.


the Dental College for tie degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery, sub

ject to your approval.


Burt Abell,
Samuel Howard Arthur,
Harry Howard Avery,
Harry Park Ball,
Walter Joel Bell,
Charles Lee Blunt,
Herbert Warren Bovee,
Charles Edward Burchfield,
Charles Sylvester Chadwick,
Timothy Spencer Childs,
Thomas Coleman, D. D. S.,
Royal College of Dental Surgeons.
Eli Mahlon Conard,
Oscar Willmott Daly, D. D. S.,
Royal College of Dental Surgeons.
Archibald Warren Diack,
George Dilworth,
Elmer C. Goldthorp,
Allison William Haidle,
Charles William Hall,
Henry James Harvey,


Respectfully,
J. TAFT.
Thomas Ebenezer Howson,
Osgood Frank Ingalls,
Vida Annette Latham.
Ben Hubbard Lee,
Frank P. Martin,
James Andrew Milliken, D. D. S.,
University of Pennsylvania.
Henry Milling,
John Albert Moore,
William James Mummery,
William Edward Prather, D. D. S.,
University of Maryland.
Frank S. Prettyman,
Ellen Dennison Searle,
Edward Douglass Slawson,
Joseph Allen Snyder,
Edward Bartlett Spalding,
Carrie M arsden Stewart,
George Ernest Tribby,
Anthony Van Kammen,
Austin Smith Watrous,
May Weston.


39


On motion of Regent Kiefer, it was voted that the
degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery be conferred upon
the persoiis named in the foregoing communication, as
recommended by the Faculty of the Dental Department.
'I'lle following resolution intirodilced by Regent Kiefer
was adopted by tie full vote of tie Board.
Resolved, That after this date every student in either the Department of Medicine and Surgery or the Hormoopathic Medical
College or the Dental College, in order to be recommended for graduation, must have passed all the required compulsory work taught
in either of said colleges or departments; and that in order to prevent
even the suspicion of any injustice being done to students of different sclools, the professors of each school may be present at the
examinations held by the other schools.
Regent Cook p)resented and read the following commn licatioll:
ANN Alliton, June 27, 1892.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
Gentlemen. —By direction of the Faculty of the school of Pharmacy, I beg leave to report thlat the following named students have




JUNE ME'ETING, 1892.


45


completed all the requirements for the degree herewith specified.
They are, therefore, recommended to you as follows:
PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST.


Harris Edson Allen, B. S..
Fayette College.
Daniel Webster Atwood,
Harry William Birkmier,
Walter Briggs Cady,
Rudolph Benton Carssow,
Burt Eugene Cody,
Amasa Day Cook,
Fred Thomas Drake,
Richard Fischer,
Elliott Hafley Haag,
Mary Katharina Heard,
Phil Garry Hower,
George Richard Jackson, A. B.,
Oberlin College.


William Andrew Kelly,
Julius Martin Klein,
Alfred Ernest Landers,
Joseph Lohrstorfer,
Emerson Romeo Miller,
James Harry Parsons,
George Henry Pattison,
Oscar Charles Pusch,
Thomas Edwin Robinson,
William Emanuel Sandford,
Leonard Adam Seltzer,
John Terence Sheedy,
Oscar H. Soetje,
John Bird Sutton,
George Jones Warner,
)h Jerome Wells.


29


MASTER OF PHARMACY.
Roy Demas Young, Ph. C.


I


Respectfully submitted,
A. B. STEVENS, Secretary.
On motion of Regent Cook, the degrees indicated in
the foregoing communication were conferred as recommended by the Faculty.
Regent Cook moved that A. B. Stevens, now Lecturer
on Pharmacy at $1,400 per year, be appointed Assistant
Professor of Pharmacy for three years, at a salary of
$1,600, and that Moses Gomberg be reappointed Assistant
in Organic Chemistry, for one year, and that his salary be
$600.
The above motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook,
and Howard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the Board went into
executive session.
Regent Whitman moved that H. S. Jennings be reappointed Assistant in the Zodlogical Laboratory for one
year at a salary of $200 per year, and that Clarence G.
Wrintmore be appointed as Assistant in Drawing for one
year, at a salary of $250.




46;


JUNE MEETING, 189?.


A call vote on Regent Whitman's motion resulted as
follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook,
and Howard.
Nays -None.
At this point Regent liebard arrived, making a full
Board, except Regent Draper.
On motion of Regent Wllitman, A. J. Peters was appointed Assistant in the Botanical Laboratory for one
year, at a salary of $200, by the following vote:
Ayer-Regent Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker,
Cook, and Howard.
Nays-None.
lThe request, of Prof. Kelsey for an appropriation of
$500 for the purchase of illustrative material for the Latin
Department was laid on the table.
The Faculty of the Homnoepathic Medical College
reported the following persons as having completed all
the requirements of the Department, and as recommended
for the degree of Doctor of Medicine:
Charles Willam Behm,         Joseph Clifford Harder,
John Campbell Buell,        Jennie Hughes,
Nelson Hoyt Chamberlain,     Francis V. Martin,
William Whittelsey Cheney, A. B.,  Elmer Douglass Osmun,
University of Minnesota.  Fred Johnson Peck,
Annie Bissell Dillon,       Charles Dwight Pullen,
Frank Wilmot French,        Anna Barrington Taylor,
Ernest Frank Gamble,         Cyrus Milton Thurston,
Lewis Bradstreet Gardner,    Essington Tracy Trummer,
Ida Clerke Woolsey.                18
On motion of Regent Kiefer, it was ordered that the
degree of Doctor of Medicine be conferred upon the persons named above, as recommended by the Faculty of the
Homneopathic Medical College.
Regent Whitman presented the following communication from the Faculty of the Department of Literature,
Science, and the Arts:
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
Gentlemen. —I lhave the honor to report to your Honorable




JUNE MEETING, 1892.


47


Body that the following persons have been recommended to you, at
the last meeting of the Faculty, for tile degrees indicated below:
BACHELOR OF LETTEIS.


Jennie Louise Bement,
Myrn Brockett,
Glenn LaVerne Chapman,
George Parkliurst Cheney,
William Henry Dellenback,
Maude Forhan,
Eugenia Helen Galloo,
James Waterman Glover,
Frances Katherine Gould,
Mary Jeanette Grace,
Enoch Horton Harriman,
Myrtie May Haskins,
Alice Ermma Hatch,


Carrie Rosepha Heaton,
Ernest Oscar Holland,
Richard Dwight Merrill,
Lee Ezekiel Mighell,
Edward Crampton Nichols,
George Griffin Prentis,
Zuell Preston,
George Robert Ray, Jr.,
Alfred William Scobey,
Genevieve Martha Sheehan,
Charles Carl Spencer,
Lucien Sterling Taylor,
Charles Henry Towle.


26


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN BIOLOGY).


Ella Buck,
Ardie Maria Clark,
Edwin Hugh Edwards,


William Alfred Kickland,
George David Sones,
Robert Henry Wolcott, B. L.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN CHEMISTRY).


Frederick Levy Dunlap,
Ralph Stewart MacPherran,
George Campbell Rew,


Henry Edward Sauer,
Louis Ernst Schmidt,
Paul Henry Seymour.


6


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING).
Thomas Edson Barnum,           Eleazar Darrow,
Edwin Henry Cheney,            William Beekman Larrabee,
Adnah Clifton Newell.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN MINING ENGINEERING).


Charles Arthur Howell,


Hugh Flournoy VanDeventer.


2


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING).


John Robins Allen,
William Bassett,


Arthur Frantzen,
William Minto Johnstone,
John Pease Keyes, Ph. B.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN CIVIL ENGINEERING).


Elmer Louis Allor,
Irving Dallas Carpenter,
Alfred Courtney Lewerenz,
Arthur Douglass Mott,


Walter Webster Seymour,
Albert Henry Smith,
Edwin Merrill Smith,
George Monroe Wisner.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN GENERAL SCIENCE).


Mattie Ormsby Campbell,
Henry Ernest Candler,
Gertrude Clark,
Eugene Gerald Fassett,
Horace Walter Hawkins,


David Williams McMorran,
Frank Wesley Nagler,
Roscoe Linscott Roberts,
Therese Study,
Eli Ransom Sutton,


10




48


JUNE MEETING, 1890.


BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY.


Helen Agnes Atkins,
Helen Estelle Bacon,
Charles James Barr,
Katherine Cramer,
Sylvanus Wright Curtiss, Jr.,
Edwin DeBarr,
Frank Haigh Dixon,
Martha Florence Eddy,
Virginia Davis Farmer,
Ida Bert' a Paulina Fleischer,
Herbert Fox,
Jennie Grace Goble,
Anderson Hoyt Hopkins,
Marietta Hubbard,
Kate Viola Ilgenfritz,
Mary Ernestine Krolik,
William John LeHunte Lyster,


Fred James McElwee,
William Robbins Murray,
Hugo Pam,
William Charles Quarles,
Maria Emma Ridley,
Homer Erwin Safford,
Mary Anna Sawtelle,
Frederic Lang Sherwin,
Walter Fulton Slocum,
Miranda Belle Sperry,
Aline Sallie Szold,
Perry Fox Trowbridge,
Arthur J. Tuttle,
Paul John Ullrich.
Carl Cleghorn Warden,
Pauline Elisabeth Wies,
Viola May Williams.            34


BACHELOR OF ARTS.


Lee Earl Amidon,
Fanny Barnett.
Charles Coleman Benedict,
William Warner Bishop,
Mamah Bouton Borthwick,
Charles Ambrose Bowen,
Harry Conant Bulkley,
Gertrude Mary Bundy,
Fitzhugh Burns,
Mary Elizabeth Butler,
Lewis Clinton Carson,
James-Edward Church, Jr.,
Lawrence Thomas Cole,
Heber Doust Curtis,
Walter Adams Cutler,
Robert Woodin Doughty,
Ralph Stillman Garwood,
Frederic Dexter Green.
Howard Davis Haskins,
Julia Herrick,
Charles Wardell Heywood,
James Hamilton Kaye,
Maude McGregor,
William John McKnight,
Newton D. Mereness,
William Henry Merner,
Wilhelm Miller,
Frank Marion Morrison,
Jacob Worley Morrison,
George Fred Mulliken,
Edwin Spencer Peck,


Jessica Vaughn Penny,
Carl Dio Perry,
John Arthur Peters,
Frederick Sherman Porter,
Louise Fitz Randolph,
Alfred Day Rathbone, Jr.,
Pete Whitcome Ross,
Kate Sagendorph,
Edmond Lindsay Sanderson,
Carl Schlenker,
Lewis Severance,
Edward Sell Smith.
Frank Carpenter Smith,
Harry Tyler Smith,
Sophronia Leland Stevens,
Ella Seass Stewart,
George Henry Stone,
Frederic Bernard Sturm.
Ada Thomas,
William Collett Tichenor,
Pitt Townsend,
Mary Turner,
Charlotte Whipple Underwood,
William Edwin Walter,
Minnie Amelia Walton,
Benjamin Riddle Whipple,
Frank Bates Whipple,
Herbert Edwin Wilford,
Frederic Elias Wood,
Grace Darlene Worrall,
Ada Zarbell.


62


MASTER OF SCIENCE.
Lemuel Churchill, B. S.,          Moses Gomberg, B. S.,
Michigan Agricultural College.  Charles Hill, B. S.,
Lymant Frederic Kebler, B. S.


4




JUNLE MEETING, 1892.


49


MASTER O' PHILOSOPHY.
Mary Clark Bancker, Ph. B.,   Alice May Schoff. B. L.,     2
University of Cincinnati.
MASTER OF ARTS.
Arletta Maria Abbott, A. B.,  John Raymond McCrary, A. B.,
Vassar College.               Trinity College, N. C.
James Melville Coleman, A. B.,  Esther Boise VanDeman, A. B.,
Chauncey Alvan Wheeler, A. B.             5
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY,
Willard Kimball Clement, A. M.,  Caroline Miles, A. M.,
Colby University.          Samuel Wilber Norton, A. M.,
Alexander Frederick Lange, A. M., Eliza Read Sunderland, A. M.,
Charles Thomas McClintock A. M., Max Winkler, A. B.,
Ky. -Wesleyan University.     Harvard University.        7
Respectfully submitted,
P.. DE PONT, Registrar.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the degrees indicated
in the foregoing communication were conferred upon the
persons named therein in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Liferature,
Science, and the Arts.
The following resolution was submitted by Regent
Kiefer, and adopted:
Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed by the
Chair to confer with a'committee of the stockholders of the proposed addition to the Hospital, with reference to the proposition
submitted to-day to the Board, and report at the next meeting.
The Chair appointed Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, and
Whitman as the committee called for in the above resolution.
On motion, the President was added to the committee.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the resignation of
Dr. W. H. Howell, as Professor of Physiology, which was
accepted.
Regent Kiefer moved that W. P. Lombard, Ph. D., M.
D., be appointed, for one year, Professor of Plhysiology and
Histology in place of Dr. W. H. Howell, resigned, at a salary
of $2,200 per year from Oct. 1, 1892; and that the appoint



50


JUNE MEETING, 1892.


ment of Dr George Dock. as Professor of the Theory and
Practice of Medicine and Clinical Medicine, in the Department of Medicine and Surgery, be made permanent.
The vote resulted as follows:
Ayes —Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker,
Cook, and Howard.
Nays —None.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Frank C. Wagner, A. M.
B. S., was appointed Assistant Professor of Mechanical
Engineering for three years from October next at a salary
of $1,600; and the appointment of C. G. Huber, M. D.,
Assistant Professor of Histology, and Fred M. Taylor, Ph.
D., Assistant Professor of Political Economy, who were
appointed at the last meeting of the Board, was fixed for
three years from the first day of October, i892.
The vote on the above motion was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker,
Cook, and Howard.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer moved that thle following appointments
be made in the Department of Medicine and Surgery for
one year:
W. F. Breakey, M. D., Lecturer on Dermatology,  salary, $300.
A. W. Reed, M. D., House Surgeon in Hospital,  -  "  500.
P. Briggs, Ph. C., Pharmacist,  "  "  -       "    300.
Martin L. Belser, M. D., Instructor in Pathology,  -  "  900.
S. M. Yutzy, M. D., Instructor in Osteology and Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy,   -     -   "    900.
Miss H. A. Carr, Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy,  "  200.
J. B. Whinery, M. D., Assistant to the Professor of
Theory and Practice,  -   -    -     -         1 00.
Wm. Dun, M. D., Assistant to the Professor of Surgery,  "  100.
0. H. Clark, Assistant to the Professor of Obstetrics,  "  100.
O. F. Suker, M. D., Assistant to the Professor of Ophthalmology,    -    -     -    -     -         100.
The vote on the above appointments resulted as follows:




JUNE MEETING, 1892.


51


Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker,
Cook, and Howard.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitmnan moved that the following instructors
he appointed in the Department of Liter;iture, Science, and
the Arts, for one year, with a salary of $900 each:
Geo. H. Mead, A. B., Instructor in Philosophy.
A. H. Lloyd, A. M., 
R. L. Weeks, A. M.,  "      " French.
J. A. C. Hildner, A. B., "  " German.
Ernst Voss,           "     "     "
H. V. Ames, Ph. D.,         " History.
Geo. Rebec, Ph. B.,  (      " English.
David M. Lichty, M. S.,  "  " General Chemistry.
W. F. Edwards, B. S., Accountant and Dispensing Clerk.
Julius 0. Schlotterbeck, Instructor in Pharmacognosy.


L. N. Johnson, A. M.,  "
II. O. Sober, A. B., 
H. F. DeCou, A.M.,
W. K. Clement, Ph. D., "
Elmer L. Allor, B. S.,  "
J. L. Markley, Ph. D.,
E. A. Lyman, A. B., 
Arthur G. Hall, B. S.,  "
Moritz Levi, A. B.,   "
Fred Morley, C. E.,   "
B. J. Vos, Ph. D., 
Geo. O. Higley, B. S., 
The above appointments
vote:


" Botanv.
" Latin.
"Greek and Sanskrit.
" Latin.
" Astronomy.
" Mathematics.
" French.
Descriptive Geometry and
Drawing.
" German.
" General Chemistry.
were made by the following


Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook,
and Howard.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer moved that an appropriation of $600 be
made for the purchase of apparatus for the Laboratory of
Materia Medica, and $1,600 for the purchase of a microscope for the ulse of the Professor of Theory and Practice,
both in the Department of Medicine and Surgery.




52 ).TJUNE MEETING, 1892.


The appropriations were made by the full vote of tle
Board.
On the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery, tile degree of M. D. was
conferred upon William Arthur MacGugan and Thomas
Edward Beaupre in absentia.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the Superintendent of
Hospitals was instructed to collect from patients in the
Homoeopathic Hospital the same amount per week for
board, medicine, and d(ressings, as is now required of
patients in the University Hospital, viz., $5.
Dr. V. C. Vaurgan, Director of tie Hygienic Laboratory, made the following recommendations: That Chas.
T. McClintock be re-appointed assistant to the Professor
of Hygiene at a salary of $200; that Miss A. Ives be
re-appointed assistant in the Hygienic Laboratory at a
salary of $200; and that the Director be allowed to select
the third assistant, in the place of H. E. Barirht, at a
salary not exceeding $200.
The request of Dr. Vaughan was granted by the following vote.
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker,
Cook, and Howard.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer moved thiat tle sum of $100 be set
apart from the Homceopathic College fund for the purpose of printing and maili:ng an extra edition of their
announcement;
That $250 from the General Fund be appropriated to
repair the telescope and instruments at the Observatory;
And that H. C. Markham be appointed Assistant in
Archmeology at a salary of $75.
The motion of Regent Kiefer was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker,
Cook, and Howard.
Nays-None.




JUNE MEETING, 1892.


53


The President presented and read the following coinmunication from Professor Francis W. Kelsey, Curator of
the Archleological Museum.
PRESIDENT J. B. ANGELL, University of Michigan.
MY I)EAR SIR:-Will you please to ask tile Board of Regents
to make suitable acknowledgment for the following gifts:
1. To tle Smithsonian Institution, Washington, for the gift of
100 plaster casts showing the most important classes of prehistoric
implements, with carefully prepared descriptive labels.
2. To Mr. G. F. Allmendinger and twenty-six other individuals and firms of Ann Arbor, for the purchase and presentation to
the University, of the David DePue collection.
Will you ask the Regents also to enact that the collection mentioned shall be mounted suitably in a case in the Museum, and that
it shall be known as "The David DePue Collection of Indian
Relics."
I append a list of subscribers to the fund for the purchase of
the collection.
Yours respectfully,
FRANCIS W. KELSEY.
NAMES OF THE CONTRIBUTORS FOR THE D)EPUE COLLECTION.
G. F. Allmendinger,           Mann Bros.,
A. L. Noble,                  Otttnar Eberbach,
Francis W. Kelsey,            S. W. Beakes,
Alpheus Felch,                J. Ferdon,
J. B. Steere.                 H. J. Brown.
Dean & Co.,                   S. A. Moran,
J. Austin Scott,              J. V. Sheehan,
Evart H. Scott,               Martin Haller,
Thos. M. Cooley               Koch & Henne,
N. W. Cheever,                George Haller,
J. E. Beal,                   Mack & Schmid,
Wm. C. Stevens, M. D.,        J. L. Babcock,
J. T. Jacobs & Co.,           A. W. Hamilton,
T. J. Keech.
On motion, the President was requested to convey to
the persons named in the foregoing communicationii thie
grateful acknowledgments of the Board for the kindly
interest manifested in the University by their generous
gifts; and the secretary was directed to provide a proper
case in the Museum for the reception of these specimenls.
On motion of Regent Butterield, thle appoinftment of




54


JUNE MEETING, 1892.


Professors Ohamplin and Conely,in the Law Department,
was made permanent.
Oil motion of Regent Whitman, the sum        of $2,000
was set apart for grading the hospital grounds, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker,
Cook, and Howard.
Nays-None.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted:
Resolvcd, That the Committee on the Law Department be
instructed to ascertain the rights of the University in relation to
ttie payment of the one-twentieth of a mill tax and of the interest
accruing from the endowment fund.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That in accordance with the resolution of the Board
passed at the May meeting of the Board, for the establishment of
six new courses of practical work in the Department of Medicine
and Surgery, the following persons be appointed as demonstrators
in such courses.
C. G. Darling, M. D., Demonstrator of Surgery.
Elmer E. Hagler, M. D., "  "Ophthalmology.
James G. Lynds, M. D.,  "  "Obstetrics and Diseases of Women.
A. S. Warthin, M. D.,  "    Clinical Medicine.
W. L. Moore, M. D.,    " "Nervous Diseases.
These appointments to be made under the express condition
contained in such resolution that the salaries be paid out of the
fees of the Courses, and that no liability therefore shall exist on
the part of the Board.
The resolution was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker,
Cook, and Howard.
Nays-None.
On motion the Board of Regents adjourned to 7:30
o'clock P. M.
EVENING SESSION.
On motion of Regent Whitman, Superintendent
Reeve was directed to remove a partition in the north



JUNE MEETING, 1892.5


55


west corner of the new Law Building which divides the
two offices and throw the space all into one room.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Dr. C. L. Ford was requested to withdraw his resignation for the time being.
Regent Kiefer moved that the Auditing Board be
directed to pay Mrs. Pettigrew, as head nurse in University Hospital, at the rate of $60 per month from December 7. 1891, to February 1, 1892, and Mrs. C. A. Davis at
the same rate Irom February 1, 1892, to June 17,1892;
and that Mrs. Pettigrew be appointed head nurse iil University Hospital from June 17, 1892, to June 30, 1893, at
$60 per molth;
Also that Sidney P. Budgett be appointed Assistant in
Physiology for one year at a salary of $300.
A call vote being taken, Regent Kiefer's motion was
carried by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, it was voted that the
term of service of all employes il the hospitals, below
the Superintendent, shall date from July 1 of each year.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, it was voted that all
communications from Departments to the Board shall be
presented by the Deans of their respective Faculties.
On motion, the Board adjourned until 9 o'clock A..M..,
Wednesday.
WEDNESDAY MORNING.
JUNE 29. 1892.
There being no quorum present, the Board adjourned
until 7:30 P. M.
EVENING SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 7:30 P. M. and, on motion
of Regent Cocker, Regent Whitman was called to the
chair in the absence of the President.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the committee on Build




506


JUNE MEETING, 1892.


iugs and G.roundsws w authorized to provide proper cases
for instrllments ald appliances in the new Homoeopathjic
Hospital.
Dr. Obetz, Dean of the Homoeopathic College, asked
the Board to set apart $500 for the purchase of surgical
and otller instriuments for the Homceopathic Hospital.
T'he request was referred to the Medical Committee to
report at the inext meeting of the Board.
Regent Kief4r introduced the following resolution
whic h was adopted:
Resolved, That a vacation of four weeks be granted to Superintendent Clark during the summer, provided that lie will procure
a capable and competent man to take his place during his absence,
the latter to be subject to the approval of the Board, and without
extra compensation by the Board.
Tlhe President in the chair.
Regentt Kiefer moved that the following appointments
for the ensuilng year be made in the Dental College:
L. P. Hall, Assistant to the Professor of Operative and Clinical Dentistry, at a salary of $600.
A. W. Haidle, Assistant in Mechanical Dentistry, salary $500.
C. G. Darling, M. D., Clinical Lecturer on Oral Pathology, at
a salary of $300.
lThe vote on the above appointments resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer moved that in view of the abolition of
thle positioll of' Ward Maeter il the University Hospital,
the Executive Committee be autholized to appoint an
assistant to the House Phlysician, and as compensation for
hIis services t le Superiltendent shall furnish him a room
and )oard in tlie llospital.
Th'lis motion was carried by a full vote.
'l'le following resolution, presented by Regent Cocker,
was unanimously adopted:




JUNE MEETING, 1892.


57


Resolved, That the Superintendent of Hospitals slall, by virtue of his office, be a melmber of the Hospital Colnmmittee of the
University and Homoeopathic Hospitals, and that all employees,
including nurses, shall be under his direction and control, and that
he shall be held responsible for the general condition and'management of the hospitals.
The following resolution was presented by Regent
Cocker:
Resolved, That the title of Mr. H. Reeve he made Superintendent of Buildings, and that his salary be increased to $1,600.
The vote on the above resolution rsulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
The following resolution was presented by Regent
Kiefer, and adopted:
Resolved, That no professor or instructor shall neglect to give
any course of instruction announced for his department, nor shall
he give, instead of such announced course, private instruction to
students in the same course.
Regent Cocker moved that Professor A. A. Stanley's
salary be increased to $2,200 from Oct. l, 1892.
A call vote resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman moved that the salary of Superintendent C. G. Taylor be fixed at $2,000; that the Executive Committee be authorized to employ a student assistant who shall devote two-thirds of his time to work in the
Zo6logical Laboratory at a salary not exceeding $500;
and that the Auditing Board be authorized to employ a
student assistant to Professor E. D. Campbell at an expense not exceeding $200.
The motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes —Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the request of Professor




5<S.7, UNE MEE TING, 1892.


Reigharid, for an applropriation to enable him to join the
State Fish Coimmission in the field, was laid on the table.
On motion of Regent Whitman, it was voted that
hereafter, unless otherwise specified, the appointments of
Assistant Professors should be for three years, and of Instructors for one year.
Regent Butterfield moved that the following appointments be made in the Law Department, for one year:
Elias F. Johnson, LL. B., Instructor in Law, salary $400.
Thomas M. Cooley, LL. D., Lecturer on Inter-State Commerce,
salary to be arranged at a later date.
Henry B. Brown, LL. D., Lecturer on Admiralty, at a salary of
$350.
Marshall D. Ewell, LL. D., Lecturer on Medical Jurisprudence, at
a salary of $400.
James L. High, LL. D., Lecturer on Injunctions and Receivers, at
a salary of $400.
John B. Clayberg, LL. B., Lecturer on Mining Law, at a salary of
$300.
George H. Lothlrop, Ph. B., Lecturer on Patent Law, at a salary of
$100.
Melville M. Bigelow, Ph. D., Lecturer on Insurance at a salary of
$500.
And that the following persons be appointed as Lecturers in the Law Department for the ensuing year without compensation:
Andrew C. McLaughlin, A. B., LL. B., on Constitutional Law and
Constitutional History.
Victor C. Vaughan, Ph. D., M. D., on Toxicology and its Legal
Relations.
Henry C. Adams, Ph. D., on the Rail Road Problem.
The President presented the following communication
from the Professor of Mechanical Engineering:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, Mich., June 28, 1892. S
President James B. Angell:
Dear Sir. —I have the honor to submit the following list of
donations to the Department of Mechanical Engineering, received
during the past school year:




,IUNE   MEETING, 1892..


59


Hine Eliminator Co., 106 Liberty street, New York, one 3-inch, extra strong,
horizontal eliminator, and one 1-inch vertical eliminator.
The Moore & White Co., 1312 Buttonwood street, Philadelphia, one 14-inch
friction clutch fitted to an 18xl2-inch pulley.
The Falls Rivet and Machine Co., Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, one 14-inch friction
clutch coupling.
American Injector Co., Detroit, Mich., one No. 60 "World " injector.
Battle Creek Machinery Co., Battle Creek, Mich., one new pattern Marsh
steam pump, in exchange for one of smaller size of old pattern.
Saginaw Manufacturing Co., Saginaw, Mich., one 36x10-inch, one 30x10-inch,
and one 18x10-inch wooden pulleys.
The Fairbanks Co., Buffalo, New York, five valves and cocks cut in section
to show working parts.
G. M. Davis & Co., 26-32 S. Jefferson street, Chicago, one No. 00 steaim trap.
Respectfully submitted,
M.. E. COOLEY,
Prof. of Mechanical Engineering.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the President was roquested to convey the thanks of the Board to the persons
named in the foregoing communication, for valllable gifts
to tile Department of Mechanical Engitneerinig.
It was ulanimously voted that the hlonlorary deg(ree
of Ph'. 1). be conferred upon John W. Langley, B. S., M.
D., Professor of Electrical Engineering in tlhe Case School
of Applied Science, at Cleveland, Ohio, and        also upon
Robert Simpson Woodward, C. E. Astronomer of the U.
S. Geological Survey, Waslillngton, D. C., a graduate of
this University of the class of 1872.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the Board adopted a
vote of thanks to Justin     Winsor, LL. D., Librarian of
Harvard University, for his scholarly and eloquelt Commencement Address, and requested a copy of the lnanuscript for publication.
On motion, the Board adjourned to September 21st.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




REGULAR MEETING.
Septelxiber, 189".
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,         )
ANN ARBOR, September 21, 1892.)
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock, A. M.
Present, Regents Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker, Cook,
Howard, and Barbour.
Absent, Regents Kiefer and Whitman.
Sundry papers which had reached the President were
referred to appropriate committees of the Board.
The President presented the following report of the
Executive Committee:
To the Board of Regents:
The Executive Committee, on July 12th, appointed Mr. Henry
B. Ward, Ph. D., Instructor in Morphology for the coming year, at
tile salary of $900, to fill the vacancy caused by the expiration of
the term of service of L. Murbach. They also appointed W. A.
Kickland, M. S., Assistant in Vertebrate Morphology for one year
at the salary of $500, it being understood that he shall give twothirds of his time to the service of the University. The appointient of such an assistant was authorized at the June meeting.
On July 14th, they also appointed Mr. Ernst H. Mensel, Instructor in German for the coining year at the salary of $900, and Miss
Solis, Clinical Assistant to Dr. Herdman, without compensation.
On August 2d, they appointed Lawrence McLouth, A. B., Instructor in German for one year at thle salary of $900, in place of B.
T. Vos, resigned.
JAMIES B. ANGEL-L,
W. J. COCKER,
R,. W. B'rUTTERFIELD.




62


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 18 93.


On motion of Regent Howard, the report of the Executive Committee was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker, Cook, Howard,
and Barbour.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Cook, the control of the athletic
grounds was placed in the hands of the directors of the
University Athletic Association until otherwise ordered,
under the conditions named on page 31 of the Proceedings
of the May meeting.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, Regents Cocker,
Hebard, and Cook were appointed a committee to report
on filling the vacancies in the Standing Committees of the
Board.
On motion of Regent Cook, the President, Regents
Butterfield and Cocker were appointed a committee to
draft resolutions on the death of Regent Draper.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
Regent Butterfield, Chairman of the Law Committee,
presented and read the resignation of Professor Nathan
Abbott, Tappan Professor of Law, which was accepted.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the Auditing Board
were authorized to purchase instruments for the use of the
Professor of Surgery in the Department of Medicine and
Surgery, at an expense not exceeding $90, by the following vote.
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker, Cook, Howard,
and Barbour.
Nays-None.
Regent Barbour laid before the Board a book of records of the early history of the University, which Silas
Farmer, of Detroit, desired to present to the University
The Record was accepted and placed in the Library and
the thanks of the Board were returned to Mr. Farmer.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the Board took a
recess to 2 o'clock P. M.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1892.


63


AFTERNOON SESSION.
Regent Hebard presented the request of the Calumet
and Hecla Mining Company, of Calumet, Michigan,
that the University loan to them, for the purpose of exhibiting it at the Columbian Exposition, the working
model of the stamp mills of their mine now in the
museum, the same to be returned to the University in
good order, with such additions as they may choose to
make to the model in order to show the present working
of the mine. The request was granted.
Professor Knowlton, Dean of the Law Department,
by request, addressed the Board on the needs of the Law
Department.
Dr. Vaughan, Dean of the Medical Faculty, presented
the request of his Faculty for more room for Hospital
accommodations and for Laboratory work.
Regent Butterfield moved that the following appointments be made in the Homonopathic Medical College for
one year:
N. H. Chamberlain, M. D., to be Resident Physician, at a lasary of $350.
E. D. Osmun, M. D., to be Assistant Physician, without salary,
but to have room and board in the Hospital.
E. A. Clark, M. D., Assistant to the Professor of Surgery, salary $100.
C. W. Behm, M. D., Assistant to the Professor of Theory and
Practice and to the Professor of Materia Medica, salary $200.
C. M. Thurston, M. D., Assistant to the Professor of Obstetrics,
salary $100.
F. J. Peck, M. D., Assistant to the Professor of Ophthalmology,
salary $100.
The motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker, Cook, Howard,
Barbour.
Nays-None.




64


SEPIT'TEi:MBER MEETING, 1892.


The Special Committee appointed to fill the vacancies
in the Standing Committees of the Board, submitted the
following report, which was adopted:
Executive Committee-The President, Regents Whitman, Butterfield, and Cocker.
Finance Committee-Regents Cocker, Hebard, and Kiefer.
Committee on Literary Department-Regents Whitman, Cocker,
and Howard.
Committee on Law Department-Regents Butterfield, Whitman,
and Barbour.
Committee on Medical Department, Homwopathic College, and
Dental School-Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, and Cocker.
Library Committee-Regents Butterfield, Kiefer, Cook, and the
President.
Committee on Museum, School of Mines, and Astronomical Observatory-Regents Kiefer, Hebard, and Cook.
Committee on Chemical and     Pharmaceutical DepartmentsRegents Cook, Howard, and Barbour.
Committee on Buildings and Grounds-Regents Whitman, Barbour, and Howard.
The committee appointed to prepare resolutions on
the death of Regent Draper made the following report,
which was adopted unanimously:
The Committee appointed by the Board to draft resolutions
concerning the death of Regent Draper, beg leave to present the
following:
WHEREAS, It has pleased Almighty God to remove by death our colleague, Charles Stuart Draper,
Resolved, That we deeply mourn the loss of an associate and friend, to
whom we were bound by ties of the strongest personal attachment.
Resolved, That we desire to express our high appreciation of his ability
and his character, and of the great value of his services to the University and
the state, as a member of this Board. His intimate acquaintance with the
University of which he was a graduate, his devotion to her best interests, his
broad and generous views of her opportunities and duties, his wise judgment
concerning her true policy, and his large influence in the state, made his
official career as Regent of most conspicuous worth.
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be communicated to his
widow and to his father with the expression of our sincere sympathy with
them in their affliction.
Regent Butterfield presented the request of Dr. W.
J. Herdman for an assistant in Electro-Therapeutics, and




SEPTEMBER' MEETING, 189 2.


65


asked that the request lie on the table until the next
meeting. It was so ordered.
Regent Cook presented and read the following communication from the Director of the Chemical Laboratory:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
CHEMICAL LABORATORY,
ANN ARBOR, September 21, 1892.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents.
Gentlemen: I beg leave to recommend appointments to continue the service of Assistants in the Chemical Laboratory, all
without change of salary, and all for the coming college year, 1892-3,
as follows:
Eugene H. Robertson, Ph. B., to be continued as Assistant in Physiological Chemistry, at $192 (Minutes, 1891, p. 531).
Bernard G. Hesse, Ph. C., to be Assistant in the Chemical Laboratory
at $250, in place of L. F. Kebler (Minutes, 1891, p. 587).
Richard Fischer, Ph. C., to be Assistant in the Chemical Laboratory at
$192, in place of Bernard G. Hesse (Minutes, 1891, p. 531).
William H. Andrews, to be assistant in Quantitative Analysis, at $200,
in place of Walter G. Wallace (Minutes, 1891, p. 531).
Roy D. Young, Phar. M., to be Assistant in Pharmacy, at $150, in place
of Robert B. Armstrong (Minutes, 1891. p. 587).
Respectfully,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT,
Director Chemical Laboratory.
On motion of Regent Cook the appointments recommended above were made by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker, Cook, Howard,
and Barbour.
Nays-None.
Regent Butterfield submitted the following resolution
which was adopted by the full vote of the board:
Resolved, That the Superintendent of Buildings be directed to
remove the partitions from the second story of the brick building
heretofore forming part of the Homceopathic Hospital; that seats
be placed therein and the same be used as a lecture room by the
Homceopathic Department; that until other arrangements are made,
the Department of Medicine and Surgery be permitted to use the
present amphitheatre jointly with the Homecopathic Department
under the control and direction of the Medical Committee of this
Board, and that the hospital ward adjacent be used by the Department of Medicine and Surgery as a laboratory.




66          SEPTEMBER MEETINqC, 1892.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the appointment of
a professor to the chair made vacant by the resignation of
Nathan Abbott, Tappan Professor of Law, was deferred
until the next meeting of the Board.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Wednesday, October 12th, at 10 o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




REGULAR MEETING.
October, 1892.
UNIVERSITY OF MICIIGAN,   1
ANN ARBOR, October 12, 1892.
The Board of Regents assembled in the room of the
President at 10 o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard,
Cocker, Cook, Howard, and Barbour.
Absent-Regent Kiefer.
Sundry papers which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of appropriate committees.
The President stated that his Annual Report had been
prepared and was held subject to the wishes of the Board.
Regent Cocker moved that the President be requested to
read the Report, which was as follows:
THE PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
To the Honorable Board of Regents.
1 beg leave to present my Annual Report for the year
ending September 30, 1892.
It is with great sorrow that I have to record first
among the important events in the history of the University for the year the death of Regent Charles Stuart
Draper. After a grave illness of some months he went,
under medical advice, to the Springs of Carlsbad in
Austria. But, it becoming apparent that his disease was
incurable, he started for home, and died on August 5th at
sea. His remains were brought to his old home, at Pontiac, for burial.
Mr. Draper graduated A. B., from our Literary Department in 1863. He chose the law as his profession, and




68


OCTOBER iTMEETING, 18!),?.


as a practitioner, both at Pontiac and at East Saginaw,
made a brilliant reputation, IHe also rendered useful and
gallant service in the civil war.
He was appointed Regent in 1887, by Gov. Alger, to
fill the vacancy caused by the death of Regent Moses W.
Field. At the expiration of his term in 1889, he was
elected by the people for the term ending Jan. 1, 1897.
How faithfully and how efficiently he devoted himself to
his official duties upon this Board, I need not say to you,
his colleagues and friends. Under the heavy pressure of
a large practice in an absorbing profession, he found time
to answer the frequent calls which the University made
upon him as a member of the Board and Chairman of a
most important Committee.   His familiarity with the
inner life of the University, his large acquaintance with
men and affairs, his acute perceptions, his courage, his
sound judgment, gave great weight both in this Board and
throughout the State to his opinions upon our business. I
am sure we all leaned upon him as a most judicious counsellor. We shall greatly miss him from our deliberations.
It is interesting to note that his father, Hon. William
Draper, still living at Pontiac,-was also a Regent from
1840 to 1844. There is in our brief history no other case
in which both father and son have served upon this Board.
At the meeting of the Board of Regents in October,
1891, the following appointments for one year were made:
Lewis Murbach, B. S., Instructor in Morphology.
George Rebec, Ph. B., Instructor in English.
Simon M. Yutzy, M. D., Instructor in Osteology, Assistant
Demonstrator of Anatomy and Assistant to the Professor of Anatomy.
D. M. Lichty, M. S., Instructor in General Chemistry, in place
of C. K. McGee, resigned.
Ernst Voss, Instructor in German.
Also the following appointments of Special Lecturers
in the Law Department, for one year, were made:
Judge Samuel Maxwell, Code Pleading and Practice.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


69


Melville M. Bigelow, LL. D., Insurance.
J. B. Clayberg, LL. B., Mining Law.
George H. Lothrop, B. S., Patent Law.
Wn. G. Hammond, LL. D., History of Common Law.
The title of Professor Freer was changed to Professor
of General Chemistry and Director of the Laboratory of
General Chemistry.
Assistant Professor Andrew C. McLaughlin, A. B., was
appointed Professor of American History, with the understanding that, in addition to the discharge of his former
duties in the Literary Department, he should also give
instruction in Constitutional Law to the graduate class
in the Law Department.
At the November meeting of the Board the following
action was taken:
The appointment by the Executive Committee of Herman V.
Ames, Ph. D., as Instructor in History for one year, in the place of
J. H. T. McPherson, Ph. D., resigned, was confirmed.
Professor M. L. D'Ooge was appointed Dean of the Literary
Faculty for one year.
Assistant Professor J. B. Davis was made Professor of Geodesy
and Surveying.
At the meeting in January, 1892, the resignation of
the Professor of Astronomy and Director of the Observatory, Mark W. Harrington, A. M., was accepted.
At the May meeting the following appointments were
made:
Dr. G. C. Huber was appointed Assistant Professor of Histology for three years.
John C. Rolfe, Ph., D. Acting Professor of Latin for one year,
having charge of the Latin Department during the absence of Professor Kelsey, in Europe.
David E. Spencer, A. M., Acting Assistant Professor of History for one year, during the absence of Professor Hudson, in
Europe.
Fred M. Taylor, Ph. D., Assistant Professor of Political
Economy, for three years.
Nathan Abbott, A. B., Tappan Professor of Law (permanent
appointment).




70


OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


George' Herbert Rowe, B. S., Instructor in Electrical Engineering, for one year.
John O. Reed, Ph. M., Instructor in Physics, for one year.
Asaph Hall, Jr., Ph. D., Professor of Astronomy and Director
of the Observatory.
Israel C. Russell, M. S., C. E., Professor of Geology.
Benjamin P. Bourland, A. M., and John R. Effinger, Ph. B.,
Instructors in French, for one year.
At the meeting in June, George Dock, M. D., received
the permanent appointment to the Chair of the Theory
and Practice of Medicine and Clinical Medicine, which he
filled last year.
The following appointments were made for three
years.
A. B. Stevens, Ph. C., hitherto Lecturer on Pharmacy, Assistant Professor of Pharmacy.
Frank C. Wagner, A. M., Assistant Professor of Mechanical
Engineering.
The following appointments were made for one year:
W. P. Lombard, A. M., M. D., Professor of Physiology and
Histology, in the place of Dr. W. H. Howell, resigned.
Geo. H. Mead, A. B., Instructor in Philosophy.
A. H. Lloyd, A. M.,  "t    " 
R. L. Weeks, A. M.,   L    " French.
J. A. C. Hildner, A. B., "  " German.
Ernst Voss,           "    "    "
H. V. Ames, Ph. D.,  "     " History.
Geo. Rebec, Ph. B.,  "     " English.
David M. Lichty, M. S.,"   " General Chemistry.
W. F. Edwards, B. S., Accountant and Dispensing Clerk.
Julius O. Schlotterbeck, Instructor in Pharmacognosy.
L. N. Johnson, A. M.,  "   " Botany.
H. A. Sober. A. B.,  "     " Latin.
H. F. DeCou, A. M.,  (     " Greek and Sanskrit.
W. K. Clement, Ph. D., "   " Latin.
Elmer L. Allor, B. S.,  "  " Astronomy.
J. L. Markley, Ph. D.,  "  " Mathematics.
E. A. Lyman, A. B.,  "     " 
Arthur G. Hall, B. S.,  "  " 
Moritz Levi, A. B.,  ''    " French,




OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.                   71
Fred Morley, C. E.,    "    " Descriptive Geometry and
Drawing.
B. J. Vos, Ph. D.,     "     " German.
Geo. O. Higley, B. S.,  "   " General Chemistry.
Moses Gomberg, M. S., Assistant in Organic Chemistry.
Chas. H. Cooley, A. B.,  "    " Political Economy.
Frank H. Dixon, Ph. B.,  ((         " 
The following appointments in the Law Department
were made for one year:
Elias F. Johnson, LL. B., Instructor in Law.
Thomas M. Cooley, LL. D., Lecturer on Inter-State Commnerce.
Henry B. Brown, LL. 1)., Lecturer on Admiralty.
Marshall D. Ewell, LL. D., Lecturer on Medical Jurisprudence.
James L. High, LL. D., Lecturer on Injunctions and Receivers.
John B. Clayberg, LL. B., Lecturer on Mining Law.
George H. Lothrop, Ph. B., Lecturer on Patent Law.
Melville M. Bigelow, Ph. D., Lecturer on Insurance.
Andrew C. McLaughlin, A. B., LL. B., Lecturer on Constitutional Law and Constitutional History.
Victor C. Vaughan, Ph. D., M. D., Lecturer on Toxicology and
its Legal Relations.
Henry C. Adams, Ph. D., Lecturer on the Railroad Problem.
At the meeting in September the following appointments were made:
Henry B. Ward, Ph. D., Instructor in Morphology.
W. A. Kickland, B. S., Assistant in Vertebrate Morphology.
Ernst H. Mensel, A. M., Instructor in German.
Lawrence McLouth, A. B. Instructor in German.
During the year, degrees were conferred as follows:
DEGREES ON EXAMINATION.
Bachelor of Letters        ------------                   26
Bachelor of Science (in Biology) 6 --- —- ----- 
Bachelor of Science (in Chemistry) ---- -— 6-          - 
Bachelor of Science (in Electrical Engineering) ---— 5 —
Bachelor of Science (in Mininng Engineering) ---- -        2
Bachelor of Science (in Mechanical Engineering) --- —----   5
Bachelor of Science (in Civil Engineering) --- —      -     9
Bachelor of Science ------- -----    ----       ---------- 12
Bachelor of Philosophy -------                   --- -- 35




72             OCTOBER MEETING, 1S92.
Bachelor of Arts -----. --- —----                66
Master of Science ---           ----------         4
Master of Philosophy --- — ------------------------ 2
Master of Arts -------------------                 5
Doctor of Philosophy --- —----          ---         7
Doctor of Medicine (Dept. of Medicine and Surgery)-.. --- —_ -112
Bachelor of Laws     ---------- _ _ _  ------— _ 291
Master of Laws -    ----        ----          ----- 20
Pharmaceutical Chemist.   --------        -   --- 29
Master of Pharmacy --   -------        --- -       1
Doctor of Medicine (Homceopathic Medical College) --- —--  17
Doctor of Dental Surgery — ---------              39
699
HONORARY DEGREES.
Doctor of Philosophy --- —---                 --    2
Total number of degrees conferred-_ -  - -701
The number of graduates on examination is greater
than that of the preceding year by 76, and is greater than
the number ever before bestowed by an American University.
The attendance has been as follows:
SUMMARY OF STUDENTS.
DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS.
Holder of the Elisha Jones Classical Fellowship --- —--  1
Resident Graduates --. ---- ------ --- -_ _. 49
Candidates for an Advanced Degree, Enrolled in Other
Departments ----- ---                      6
Graduates Studying in Absentia- ---  -   -    37
Undergraduates:
Candidates for a Degree ------- - -. -.. —  1022
Students not Candidates for a Degree --- — ---- 215-1330
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY.
Resident Graduates   ----       -----         4
Fourth Year Students  ---  ---- ---- -----   123
Third Year Students- ---- ------ --  -----   43
Second Year Students   ----------- ---       93
First Year Students  ----       --— 106
Special Student  ---  -----  - -              1- 370




OCTOBER MEETING, 18s92.             73
DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
Resident Graduates - ---   ------     ----    22
Seniors ---------—.. --- —290
Juniors -----      --    --   -    ------ 324
Special Students ----    --     --- ----      15
Students enrolled in Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts --- —-         ----------        7- 658
SCHOOL OF PHARMACY.
Resident Graduate_-    -------                 1
Second Year Students ---- ----  -        --    35
First Year Students ----  ------ -----        45-  81
HOM(EOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE.
Resident Graduate ------------- - -----        1
Fourth Year Students --   ----      --        18
Third Year Students- -----------              28
Second Year Students ---  --       --- ----- 17
First Year Students...- - -- ----- 15-            79
COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY.
Resident Graduates ---     ------              4
Seniors -- -.. --- —---.... ---- ____ ---       36
Juniors  -      --- -- ---     -— 63
Freshmen — -- -- --- -—. --- —. -- --       85- 188
2706
Deduct for names counted more than once --- —---  14
Total-_. — _ — -— _     _ - --.  --- —.- _ ---.. --  2692
This number is larger by 272 than that of the preceding year. Our attendance, as in that year, was larger
than that at any other American University. Since the
year 1884-5, the number of students has more than doubled. During the last four years the annual increase has
been between 200 and 300, as the following table shows:
Total Attendance.    Annual Gain.
In 1887-8  -- --_ ---- __  _  16(i7  --  ---
In 1888-  -----------        185 --- —          --- 18
In 1889-90 —                 2159-     -          274
In 1890-1 ----            -- 2420 ----     -        261
In 1891-2__     - --— _      2692-     - -      - 72




74


C)(TO70BER MEETING, 1892.


The attendance by Departments is shown in the following table:
ATTENDANCE BY DEPARTMENTS.
1890-1 1891-2
Literary Department ----- --  -— 1170           1330
Department of Medicine and Surgery  ---- 375     370
Department of Law -------                  581   658
School of Pharmacy    -   -.    ---    91    81
Homoeopathic Medical College ---  ------    71    79
Dental College  ---- ----          --.   132   188
The largest absolute increase was in the Literary Department, 160. The Law Department gained 77, and the
Dental College 56.
The increase in the Literary Department in the last
two years has been nearly 32 per cent.; in the Law Department, more than 23 per cent.; and in the Dental Department, more than 82 per cent. The attendance in the
other Departments has been very steady for the last few
years.
It is interesting to notice that, in the rapid growth of
the University, the students from Michigan continue to
number about one half of all. Of the total number last
year, 2692, Michigan furnished 1322, or a little over 49 per
cent. In the previous year, she furnished 48 per cent.
Her representation in each Department is as follows:
Literary, nearly 59 per cent.; Medical, nearly 50 per cent.;
Law, 28 per cent.; Pharmacy, nearly 36 percent.; Homceopathic College, 44 per cent.; Dental College, 56 per cent.
Our students were drawn last year from forty-six of
our states and territories. Every state in the Union but
two was represented. So were the following foreign states
and provinces: Japan, Hawaiian Islands, Sweden, Syria,
South Africa, Italy, Bulgaria, Costa Rica, Bermuda, England, Ireland, New Brunswick, Quebec, Ontario, and Manitoba. Nothing could better testify to the wide repute of
the University than its power to attract students year after
year from all parts of this country and from so many
foreign lands.




OCTOBER MEETING; 18992.


75


The attendance of women for the last two years has
been as follows:
ATTENDANCE OF WOMEN.
1890-1 1891-2
Literary Department --         ---- ---- — 356  437
Medical Department --- —-- ---   ----      - 60   59
Law Department ----     --  ----             2    3
School of Pharmacy ------           ---      4    4
Homceopathic Medical College  ---  ----------  17  20
Dental College — -- - -  ----             - 6     8
445  531
It will be observed that the attendance of women in
the Professional Schools changes very little from year to
year. Of the total attendance in the Medical Department it amounts to 16 per cent.; in the Homoeopathic
Department, 25 per cent.; in the Literary Department,
nearly 33 per cent. The total increase has been 19 per
cent.
Public sentiment in favor of opening universities to
women as well as to men is rapidly strengthening both in
this country and in Europe. The Scotch universities are
now receiving women to their classes.
We were compelled last year to undertake the enlargement of some of our buildings, in order to furnish
suitable accommodations for our overflowing classes. The
Law Building has been nearly doubled in size. Space has
thus been gained for the enlargement of the library room
and for the addition of quiz rooms and lecture rooms.
The building formerly used by the Dantal College has
received a large addition and has been adapted to the uses
of the Engineering classes. The University Hospital was
completed early in the year, and has been occupied since
December.   The new Homceopathic Hospital has also
just been completed, and is now occupied. The President's House, which was built fifty-one years ago, has been
renovated and enlarged. The fine cement walk which
had been begun has been carried entirely around the




e76


OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


campus.  Though we have not received subscriptions
enough to complete the gymnasium, the contract for erecting the outer walls and covering the building was made
in the spring, and the work is going forward rapidly. A
good deal of work has been done in constructing new cases
and rearranging old ones in the Museum. These improvements have entailed heavy expenses, but they seemed
necessary. The need of others, as will be shown hereafter, is now just as pressing.
A considerable sum has been devoted to preparing the
Athletic Field for use. The University Athletic Association, which any student is at liberty to join on the payment of a moderate fee, is entrusted, under the direction
of an Advisory Committee composed of members of the
different Faculties, with the care of the Field, and undertakes to keep it in good order. The Association is allowed
to receive the gate fees charged for admission to match
games. This arrangement practically levies a small tax
on the students who are interested in athletics for the
care of the Field. It seems proper that after the University has borne the expenses of purchasing and preparing
the Field the students should be charged with the expense
of keeping it in repair. The plan adopted appears to be
working well. The advantages of the Field are warmly
appreciated by the students.
So much public interest was evinced in what is called
the work of University Extension that early in the college year the Literary Faculty matured a plan for entering upon it, and the plan received your approval. It contemplated the offering of courses of lectures by members
of the Faculty at a moderate rate to local organizations in
towns and cities not too remote from us. Several of our
professors offered their services at considerable inconvenience to themselves.  Courses consisting of six lectures
each were given at Detroit, East Saginaw, Grand Rapids,
Kalamazoo, Hillsdale and Toledo. Professor Demmon
lectured on English Literature, Professor Adams on Polit



OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


77


ical Economy, Professor Carhart on Electricity, Professor
Hudson on the German Empire, Professor Steere on Zoology, and Professor Scott on Art. Quizzes and examinations were held on the subjects of the lectures.  The
experiment showed that there is at present a certain
demand for such instruction, and the examination papers
indicated, in the opinion of the lecturers, that a consider
able number of the hearers were much profited by it. It
is, perhaps, too early to say whether the interest in such
lectures, which are given primarily for instruction rather
than entertainment, is to be abiding. It is clear that the
lecturers find the task, taken in addition to their regular
duties, rather a heavy draught on their strength. It is also
impossible for them to discharge this duty without some
absence from their classes here. On the other hand, it is
not without public advantage to the University that our
professors thus show their intelligence and their ability
to aid in the intellectual development of the many, who
with a thirst for learning, are unable to repair to our
halls for study. It probably strengthens the institution in
the public esteem, and demonstrates to many, who would
otherwise know little of our work, the value of the instruction given here. Therefore it seems worth while,
even at the cost of a little inconvenience, to repeat the
experiment of last winter. Should, however, the demand
for University Extension teaching become as general as
some anticipate it will, it would be beyond our power to
meet it, unless provision should be made for special lecturers who could give a large part of their time to the work.
We can safely postpone for the present the consideration
of that subject. It is, however, desirable to call attention to
the fact that there is a limit to the amount of this outside
work which a College Faculty can do without injustice to
the regular college classes. The public should understand
this, if we fail to respond to all the calls they may make
upon us for courses of lectures.
The Faculty of the Literary Department have given




78


OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


prolonged consideration during the year to the best practicable method of effecting a better organization of our work
for graduate students. They have a strong conviction of
the importance of giving more emphasis to it than we
have given heretofore. Without any special effort on our
part to build up a graduate school, we had last year nearly
a hundred graduate students under our care.  Twentyeight of these took their bachelor's degrees at other institutions.  The attention of our professors has been so
largely concentrated on the instruction of undergraduates,
that full justice has perhaps not been done in all cases to
the claims of these advanced students. The Faculty feel,
and with reason, that we ought to improve every opportunity to do well that advanced literary and scientific
teaching which may be regarded as the university work.
While we cannot neglect, much less omit the undergraduate work, we should be glad to encourage and to invite
graduates to take up the higher ranges of study with us,
and should strive to furnish them as good facilities for
such study as are afforded anywhere in the country. The
demand for such facilities is rapidly increasing.  The
stronger universities are very properly striving to meet it.
If we are not to fall behind them, we must also do our
utmost to promote this advanced instruction. The importance of such instruction to American scholarship can
hardly be overrated. It is absolutely essential to the
training of teachers for our colleges and our other institutions of higher learning. Hitherto the aspiring students
have been under the necessity of resorting to European
universities in order to carry their studies much beyond
the limits of undergraduate work. While there will continue to be advantages to them in pursuing studies abroad
at some time in their career, there is no reason why a
large proportion of them may not be so trained at home
as to fit them to do advanced work in letters, in science,
or in any of the professions. There is abundant evidence
to show that, if the proper opportunities are given by us,




OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


79


many of our own graduates will remain with us for some
years, and many of the graduates of other colleges, especially of those in the west, will be drawn hither. No more
fruitful work can be done by the University than the education of these earne-t students, who will go from our
halls to occupy positions of marked influence and usefulness. It is, in fact, the genuine university work which we
have for many years been desirous of doing. Dr. Tappan,
with his broad vision and his true conception of the function of a university, attempted in his day to prepare the
way for it. And the Faculty have never lost sight of the
ideal which he pictured. It has been only lack of means,
which has prevented us from giving larger and more rapid
development to our graduate work. We have gone on,
much as nearly all the stronger institutions have done,
giving such attention as we could to the graduates after
the undergraduates had been cared for.
But the Faculty are of the opinion that whether we
regard the increasing urgency of the demand upon us for
more thorough and systematic instruction of graduates, or
the efforts which the better equipped universities are
making to provide for it, it is in the highest degree desirable for us to give it more prominence than we have given
it thus far. By their own action they have endeavored to
secure the best organization of the work that we can have
with our present means, and have given to the organization the name of Graduate School. They would not, however, withhold from you or from the State their opinion
that the proper expansion and development of the Graduate School will call for an increase ot our teaching force,
of our means of illustration, and especially of books. If
the proper amount of work is to be bestowed upon the
graduate students by our professors, some of them will be
unable to give as much time as they now do to the instruction of undergraduates. Assistants must be furnished,
maps, charts, photographs, apparatus for research must be
provided. A liberal supply of books of a class not re



80


OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


quired for the general purposes of the library must be had.
In short, a considerable addition to our present expenses
is involved. This is stated frankly so that there may be
no misunderstanding on the part of the Regents or of
the public. The question is whether either the State or
private benefactors are willing, for the sake of the great
gain to the University and to the public, to furnish us the
needed help. We have reached so critical a point in our
history, it is so obvious that we must now either accept a
position in the rear of the larger universities with which
we have long been keeping pace in the highest university
work, or else make a vigorous forward movement, we are
so clearly called by our great opportunity to take a long
step in advance, that we are hopeful of securing needed
help through the pride of Michigan in the University and
her desire to furnish her sons and daughters with as
large advantages as are afforded anywhere in the country.
The subject is most earnestly conmended to you, and
through you, to the people of Michigan for careful and
sympathetic consideration.
The increase in the number of students in the Literary Department has made necessary some addition to our
force of Instructors. We have also added an Assistant
Professor to the force of teachers in Political Economy
and Finance, with the distinct purpose of broadening and
enlarging the instruction in these subjects. There is a
rational public demand for an ample treatment of economic science.  The announcement of the number and
variety of courses offered by us shows that we are well
prepared to meet that demand.
We have also enriched the work in Philosophy by
providing courses in Physiological Psychology, a branch
in which so important work has of late years been done
in Germany and in France.
The call for instruction in the Oriental Languages is
so considerable as to justify the enlargement of the work
in it. Courses are offered for the coming year, not only




OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


81


in Sanskrit and in Hebrew, but in Assyrian, in Arabic, and
in Comparative Semitic Philology. The new interest in
the study of the Old Testament, which has been awakened
through the country, is shared by our students. and demands instruction in these branches.
The adoption last year by the Department of Medicine and Surgery of a course of four years' study of medicine for its candidates for graduation did not occasion. as
might have been anticipated, an important reduction in
the number of its students. The total number in attendance was only five less than in the preceding year. That
is a gratifying proof of a strong desire on the part of the
medical profession for a thorough course of training. The
fact that our Medical Department, first of all the American Medical Colleges, decided to take this important step
in lengthening to four years the term of medical education,
has attracted much attention, and has lately been commented on with praise by that eminent medical journal,
the London Lancet. This year goes into effect the rule,
requiring for admission to the Department a preparatory
training equal to that for admission to the scientific course
in most of our colleges. We await with interest the effect
of the enforcement of this rule. We may expect that it
will for a time reduce the number of admissions. But it
will certainly give us a class better fitted to profit by the
course. A proper medical education now calls for the
mastery of several sciences.  A preparatory discipline,
especially in the elements of some of the sciences, is a
prerequisite to rapid and large progress in medical studies
as they are now taught here. The results of the prolonged
and thorough training here have been very satisfactory in
comparison with those of the other stronger schools in the
country.*  But we hope to do yet better work in the
future than we have done in the past.


*The following tables are taken from a paper by Perry H. Millard, M. D., of the Minnesota Examining Board, read before the
American Academy of Medicine, June 1892. They show the results of




82


OCTOBER MEETING, 189:?.


examination in the various states in which diplomas are not recognized and where all who wish to practice must pass an examination.
Table 1 gives the results of the examination of the graduates of
certain three years' schools, and table 2 shows the same for certain
two years' schools:
TABLE 1.
Pa. Minn. Har-  agCollege
States.    Mich. Univ.            ard  ed  P& S.,.~m~~~..~~   ~     N.Y.
Col.
Passed. Reject'd. P. R. P. R P. R. P. R. P. R.
Alabama- -. ---  2    0   10 000 3 (            0 6  0
Minnesota ----  37   0   18 0 53 3     0 15 0 8    0
North Carolina -  1  0    3 0 0 0  0 0 0 0      4  0
North Dakota — _  0  0    0          00  0 0 0 0   0
Virginia -     2     0    4 0 0      0 0 0 0 6     1
Totals --- —-----  42  0  35  0   53  3   10  0   15  0   24  1
Total number of persons examined -------— _______ — -- ------ 183
*'  4' i'    "   passed  ---— __ — __ ------— ___ 179
"    4   "   "  rejected -----   -------  --      4
Total percentage of persons passed -------— ______ ------— _  97.8
TABLE 2.
Uni   efeRs.          P. &-S. Univ.
States.                      B Jeffer- IR,-.  Belle-  of  of
N.Y.  son.      vue. Balti- Louismore.  ville.
P. R. P. R. P. R. P. R. P. R. P. R.
Alabama -------------   13  0   15  3  3  1   12  0   12  1   14  4
Minnesota --- —-----   2 1 5 2 12 9 4 3 0 0 0       0
North Carolina _ --- —-—. 34 0 39 2 0 0 17 3 69 25 3  4
North Daota --- —--  0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0          0
Virginia ---------------------  14  6  20  8  0  0  11  0  42  15  2  3
Totals   ---------   63  8  80  15  15  10  44  6  123  41  19  11
~o~,~ _ _   ~~ ~/0    //0.       /~   l,/




Total number of persons examined-___ ---_ ---_ — __ --- —-----
~(  "      " "  passed -----------
(t" "  "   "  lrejected   ----------
Percentage passed _ --- —-------------------- ---


435
344
91
79




OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


83


The new Hospital has been of great service. It has
been crowded with patients from the day of its opening.
Another ward, which will accommodate as many patients
as this, is urgently needed and would be promptly filled.
The problem of supplying this need is one which will engage your attention.
The Law School continues to be favored with a
prosperity which last year was almost embarrassing. The
number of students far exceed that of any other law
school in the country. It seems to be practically settled
that the great majority of students of law must receive
their professional instruction wholly or in a large part in
law schools rather than in offices. The practitioners, absorbed in their profession, can no longer give much time
to the education of young men in their offices. Hence,
although law schools are multiplying, the demand upon
us for instruction is constantly increasing. The new addition to our law building will enable us to furnish much
better accommodations to our large claims.
An additional requirement, of parts of Blackstone's
Commentaries for admisson, was made last year. I am of
the opinion that still larger requirements might well be
made for entrance. Though they should be different from
those of the Medical Department, they might still represent an equal amount of school training and discipline.
The third year's class continues to grow. Though the
instruction of the class was better provided for this year
than the year before, it should be made more systematic
still, and the demands upon the class should then be
made more rigorous. If the demand for this graduate
work in the law school continues to increase, and it is
deemed wise to encourage it, it will be necessary to make
larger provisions for meeting it. The law school brings so
large a revenue to our treasury that,on pecuniary groundsto say nothing of higher grounds-we should give it liberal treatment.
The Homceopathic Medical College continues to hold




84


OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


about the same number of students from  year to year.
The Hospital, which has been erected for it, is now occupied. The course of study has, like that in the Department of Medicine and Surgery, been lengthened, and the
requirements for admission have been r iised.
The School of Pharmacy, never ambitious of numbers, retains its place of eminence among schools of its
kind.
The Dental College finds itself admirably accommodated in its new quarters. It has been able to take care,
with ease, of its largely increased number of students.
It has also raised its requirements for admission substantially to those asked for admission to the scientific
courses in colleges. I think no other dental school has
done this. The three years' course following such preparation must give our dental graduates an amount and kind
of training furnished nowhere else in the country.
The publication of the University Record has been
continued through the year, and arrangements have been
made for its publication during the coming year. It has
proved a most valuable means of communicating to our
alumni and other friends, and especially to the teachers
in the preparatory schools, what work we are doing and
what help we desire from the schools. We much desire
to have the circulation increased. Our friends will render us a valuable service if they will call the attention
of others, interested in the real intellectual life of the
University, to this quarterly journal which is published at
a nominal price.
We learn from the Librarian's Report the following
facts concerning the Libraries:
Number of volumes in all the libraries, Sept. 30, 1892 — __  82,347
Number of unbound pamphlets in the libraries, Sept. 30, 1892 15,930
Number of maps in the libraries, Sept. 30, 1892 ---  726
Increase of volumes from Oct. 1, 1891, to Sept. 30, 1892 ---  4,642
Increase of unbound pamphlets from Oct. 1, 1891, to Sept.
30, 1892 -------                     -      349
Increase of maps from Oct. 1, 1891, to Sept. 30, 1892 ---  124




OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


85


Recorded use of books in Reading Room for the above twelve
months --— _ __ --- ---— _ _ -- -- --    135,807
Number of volumes drawn from the library by Professors for
the same time --- —-                 ----  3,650
Total --- — --— _ 139,457
The above recorded use may, in the opinion of the Librarian,
be estimated at about two-thirds of the entire use of the library.
A good deal of work has been done in re-arranging
and caring for the collections in our scientific museum.
The construction of the new cases just completed is about
the last provision we can make in our museum building
for the display of specimens.  If our collections are to
multiply, the question of finding room for them will before
long be urgent. How far it is wise for a college or university to go on collecting beyond securing such specimens as
are needed for purposes of instruction, is a subject which
teachers of science are discussing with some earnestness.
To care properly for specimens, especially for biological
specimens, requires constant labor and expense. Only a few
very large museums can be maintained in any one country,
and only a few can be said to be needed. It is cheaper for
the specialists to visit the few great museums than to multiply vast collections. But so many visitors from all parts
of this State are interested in inspecting our museum, that
it is perhaps wise for us to be somewhat liberal in our construction of the rules which should govern a university in
determining the amount and variety of collections. Especially we may well seek to gather specimens, illustrative
of the life, resources and history of Michigan.
In this connection attention may be called to the effort
which we have been making, largely through the zeal and
activity of Professor Kelsey, during the last year, to collect
relics of the life of the aboriginal inhabitants of this region,
Through the generosity of a few of our citizens, the De Pue
collection of Indian relics found in this vicinity, and formerly owned by the late David De Pue, has been secured.
Very many interesting specimens of the kind have already




86


OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


been carried away to enrich collections outside of our
State. At no distant day the opportunity to make a characteristic collection here will be gone. A fund of moderate size placed at our disposal by some friend would now
enable us to make a respectable collection in Michigan
archeology. We shall be glad to receive donations of
Indian relics for the museum from all parts of the State or
from adjacent States.
Our Art Museum is about to receive the final installment of the gift of the late Randolph Rogers, consisting
and meritorious work. The fact that we have no suitable
of the casts of the renowned Doors of the Capitol at Washington. By many they are regarded as his most original
room in which to exhibit them, reminds us afresh of our
need of a building for our Art collections. If we had such
a structure the Library could make good use of the present
Art Gallery and be freed for some time from pressure, for
whieh we must soon find some relief.
We are making preparations for a University Exhibit
at the Columbian Exposition. It is impossible to show in
visible form the best part of the work of a university, but
a vigorous committee of our Faculties is endeavoring to
arrange a creditable exhibit.
During the year we have found ourselves constrained
to consider the question whether the best interests of the
University did not call for an increase in the salaries of
our teaching force. The salaries have always been lower
here than those of the more important Universities in the
east. And there is no injustice in this, so long as the difference is not too great, since the cost of living here is less
than it is in the east. Until lately we have experienced
little embarrassment from our maintenance of salaries on
a scale lower than that of several universities. But three
important changes have taken place which materially affect us. First, the larger eastern universities have in the
last few years been gradually raising salaries until now
some of their teachers receive two or three times as much




OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


87


as any of ours. Secondly, some universities west of us
are paying salaries much larger than ours. Thirdly,
whereas formerly it was rather rare that a Professor was
called from one institution to another, now the custom
is very general. The consequence of these changes is that
we are constantly in danger of losing some of our most
valuable men. They are generally so attached to life here
that they withstand pretty strong temptations to go elsewhere. But it is idle to suppose we can retain them, if
they are invited to institutions of high standing at salaries
much larger than those which are given by us. It needs
no argument to show that our gravest misfortune would
be the loss of the accomplished and experienced teachers,
who maintain the reputation of the university. It is not
buildings or large numbers of students, which mainly give
power and prestige to a university. It is the men who
are giving instruction that make the fame and the
strength of a university. If men of learning and character and power cannot be kept in the professors' chairs, the
influence of this institution must wane. It is not sufficient
that they be kept, but that they be kept on such terms
that they have reasonable cause for contentment in their
positions. If they are constrained to be constantly looking elsewhere for a chance for appointments, which shall
afford them such a livelihood as is becoming,not to say necessary, to men of their occupation, the subtraction from their
efficiency is of serious consequence. I think a moderate
addition to the present salaries would be only just and
would guard us for some time against the perils which now
threaten us of losing some of our most valuable teachers.
The truth of these considerations is so obvious that I am
sure this Board will regard it as a duty and esteem it a
pleasure to make such addition, provided the state of our
treasury will permit them to do so. But I have made the
above emphatic statements because the State should understand the necessity for such action.
We shall have to ask of the legislature at the coming




88


OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


session the usual appropriations for the aid of the University. I do not see how we can well avoid the necessity of
asking some appropriations for building purposes.
The Waterman Gymnasium, which is in process of
erection, presents a serious problem.  When the late
Mr. Waterman gave us twenty thousand dollars on condition that an equal sum was subscribed by other friends of
the University, it was supposed by him that the whole
amount would be sufficient for the erection of a suitable
structure. But after a careful study of gymnasiums
was made by our architect, it was found that for our
great number of students a much larger building than
could be erected for such a sum was indispensable. We
find that to complete the main building which is now begun, we need about twenty thousand dollars more than
have been subscribed, while, if we build a wing for the
women, we shall need yet twenty thousand dollars more.
In view of the private subscription of over forty thousand
dollars, the legislature may feel disposed to complete the
building.
The Department of Medicine and Surgery needs another hospital ward. It also needs another lecture room
and more room for laboratory work. The extension of the
course renders it necessary to carry on more lectures simultaneously. During the past year the Dental amphitheatre has been used by medical classes, but not without inconvenience to the Dental Department, which needs the
room for its lectures.
The rapid increase in the number of Engineering students will soon compel us to refuse some of them accommodations, unless we can enlarge the mechanical and
physical laboratories. It is only with great difficulty that
we can now give them room for their work. When the
next class arrives, we shall be greatly embarrassed. If we
had the means, it would be wise to enlarge both of the
above-named laboratories at once.
It would be most advantageous to us to have  an addi



OCTOBER MEETING, 1882.


89


tion to the Library Building, which should provide for
more storage room for books, and should also contain some
room for "seminary" work for our advanced classes. It
is most convenient to have these rooms in proximity to
the Library. As has been already suggested, if a new Art
Museum should be erected through private or public gift,
the space in the present Art Gallery could be made available. But otherwise there is no way to secure the needed
space except by enlarging the Library Building.
Perhaps even more pressing at this time is the need
of a new building for the use of the Literary Department.
The rapid increase of that Department and the necessity
of appropriating several of the old recitation rooms for
scientific laboratories have left us uncomfortably crowded.
Some of our rooms, with rather inadequate means of ventilation for a moderate use of them, are in so continuous
use as to make proper ventilation impossible without exposing students to dangerous draughts. Indeed, the difficulty of providing a sufficient number of rooms at some
hours of the day is insuperable.
The administration offices in the main building are
too small for the business which has to be done in them.
Larger accommodations are needed for the Secretary, the
Treasurer, and the President, and for the Dean and the
Registrar of the Literary Faculty.
Though our embarrassments in providing for the needs
of the University are serious, it is gratifying to us, and, we
believe to the State, to know that our embarrassments are
caused by our prosperity and by the improvement in our
work. For relief from them and for the means for the
constant development of the University, we look confidently to the state, which has enabled the Regents and
the Faculties to bring the Institution to its present prosperity and usefulness.
JAMES B. ANGELL.
Regent Cocker moved that the Report of the President be accepted and printed in the minutes, and that one




90


OCTOBER MIEETING, 1892.


thousand extra copies be bound in pamphlet form for the
use of the Board. It was so ordered.
Librarian R. C. Davis presented and read his Annual
Report, which was accepted and ordered printed in the
minutes.
The report is as follows:
LIBRARIAN'S REPORT.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN-I have the honor to submit the following as my
report on the libraries of the University for the College year, 1891-2:
There were in all of the libraries, September 30, 1892, 82,347
volumes, 15,930 unbound pamphlets, and 726 maps.
Of these there were in the General Library 65,942 volumes,
14,868 unbound pamphlets, and 726 maps; in the Law Library,
10,744 volumes; in the Medical Library, 5,089 volumes, and 1,062
unbound pamphlets; and in the 'Library of the Dental College, 572
volumes.
During the year 331 periodicals were regularly received, as follows: in the General Library, 200; in the Medical Library, 91; in
the Law Library, 7; and in the Library of the Dental College, 13.
Furnished by the Students' Lecture Association, 20.
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
The additions to the General Library during the year were
3,677 volumes, 308 unbound pamphlets, and 125 maps. Of these,
2,598 volumes, and 97 unbound pamphlets were bought; 758 volumes, 211 unbound pamphlets, and 125 maps were given, and 321
volumes the results of binding periodicals.
The total amount of bills certified to by me for purchases for
this library was $6,159.31. Of this sum, $4,553.33 were for books
and pamphlets; $737.43 were for subscriptions to periodicals, and
$868.55 were for binding and mending.
I have heretofore reported certain sums paid out for supplies,
as catalogue cards, readers' slips, etc., which sums were paid from
the current expense fund. As all of the bills for such supplies do
not come to the library, it is misleading for me to report such as do
come, and I have thought it best to omit all reference to these expenses hereafter.
Of the sum of $250.00 appropriated by the Board in June, 1887,
for the purchase of books on Systematic Zoology, there remained
on Oct. 1, 1891, the sum of $6.43. This balance has been expended.




OCTOBER MAEETING, 1892.


91


Of the equal appropriation ($250) made by the Board in June,
1892, for the purchase of books for the Biological Laboratory, there
had been expended, October 1, the sum of $122.83.
GIFTS.-There have been the usual gifts of public documents
from the National government, and from the State government. A
few other states, notably Ohio and New Jersey, also send such of
their documents as are of general interest. Senator McMillan has
taken pains to place us in the list of most favored libraries in the
distribution of the documents of the General Government, hereafter. For some of these documents it had been necessary, up to
this time, to write, either to our Member of Congress, or to the
head of a department of the government. Mrs. C. H. Richmond,
Mrs. J. D. Baldwin, and Mrs. Chas. Tripp, residents of Ann Arbor,
have given a large number of public documents, and odd volumes
and odd numbers of scientific periodicals.  Out of the latter we
have been able to fill gaps existing in sets of our own periodicals.
Contributions of this nature are very acceptable; and I am constrained to say, here, that there are probably in the attics of many
houses in the state, much matter of this kind, viz., odd volumes of
public documents, odd numbers of magazines, old and unused
books, pamphlets, reports, etc., etc.-matter, which is not only not
valued, but which is in the way. If this shall meet the eyes of any
one having such matter he is earnestly requested to box it up and
send it to us at our expense.
C. M, Burton, Esq., of Detroit, has continued to furnish the
Stevens Facsimiles of MSS. in European Archives. Vols. 12, 13,
and 14 were received during the year. Dr. L. G. Doane, of New
York City, has remembered us very frequently. A number of the
volumes given by him were works by his father, the late A. Sydney
Doane, M. D. These were "author's copies " from the publishers,
and were in fine bindings. Dr. Doane, also, gave a large number
of plates of Skin Diseases, of exceptional value. Mr. John MacFarlane, of Detroit, gave a number of volumes of English Classics,
some of them rare editions. Valuable gifts were also received from
President Angell, and Professors Denimon, Hudson, Walter, Hinsdale, and many others.
USE OF THE LIBRARY.-The recorded use of the library, which
is about two-thirds of the total use, was 139,457 volumes. This is a
gain of nearly 10,000 volumes over the greatest previous record.
Forty-two students were admitted to the use of the Book-room
under the rule of admission explained in previous reports.
During the two semesters 420 students were admitted to the
Seminary Rooms, 182 to the East Room for the study of History,




92


OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


Political Economy, Philosophy, Education, Literary Criticism and
iEsthetics; and 238 to the West Room for the study of English,
French, and German Literature, and Greek and Latin Literature
and Art.
CONDITION OF TIIE LIBRARY.-A larger number of volumes than
in any previous year were sent to the binder to be mended, or rebound, according to the necessities of the case. As the library
grows in extent and use there will, of course, be a corresponding
increase in the sums to be expended for repairs. There was a
special reason for the unusually large number of volumes rebound
and mended during this year, and the previous year. A change in
methods of instruction brought into frequent use a great number of old, leather bound books. The leather had lost its vitality
and gave way at once when the books were handled.
As a result of the binder's labors, the books may be reported
as in a fair condition-all of them.
The assistant in charge of circulation reports 70 volumes as
missing. Seven (7) of these he regards as stolen.
It is the policy of the Library Committee of the Faculty to
provide the library with those Dictionaries that will afford the most
assistance in determining the etymology and usage of words. It is
not their policy, however, (neither is it a proper function of a
library) to provide dictionaries for mere purposes of translation. I
have, nevertheless, kept in the case for reference books in the
Reading Room, two or three dictionaries of each of the languages
studied generally, as Greek, Latin, French and German, for the
use (in translating) of those whose rooms are at a distance from the
Campus, and who would find it inconvenient to go thither between
recitations. These dictionaries are such as I have been able to
obtain cheaply at auction sales, and for which I have generally paid
with money obtained from the sale of old paper, and not with the
money appropriated for the purchase of books. These are the
books that have been stolen, and, under the circumstances, I may
be pardoned for regarding the thefts as particularly atrocious ones.
In regard to the remaining 63 volumes, reported missing,
the probability is that they have been misplaced and will be found
again. The janitor completed the dusting of the books on the third
floor and will resume operations again very soon on the first.
THE LIBRARY FORCE.-Mr. Hopkins and Mr. Jordan remain in
the administrative rooms, and Mr. Finneyin charge of the circulation
of books. I desire to express my great gratification at the action
of the Board in advancing the salaries of these gentlemen. Without the skilled and faithful labor thus secured the service of the




OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


93


library must have suffered. At the delivery desk Mr. Oxtoby has
been succeeded by Mr. J. B. Johnstone, and Mr. Allen, by Mr. O.
E. Tiffany. Mr. Gammon remains. In the East Seminary Room
Mr. Spencer has been succeeded by Mr. A. H. Veysey, transferred
from the West Room. In the West Room Mr. Veysey was succeeded by Mr. C. B. Allen.
THE WORK OF THE YEAR.-It has been the aim to do as well as
possible the routine work-the buying, recording, cataloging, and
caring for the books, and furnishing them to readers. This has
left little time for anything else. One feature of this routine work
has been of sufficient importance to mention. It is a change which
we have entered upon in our treatment of unbound pamphlets.
Our first method of disposing of these was in small bundles, over
which was tied a pasteboard cover. This was inexpensive and
answered very well if the pamphlets were very seldom used; but
if they were frequently used the method was inconvenient and unsafe. When the new building was occupied this way was abandoned
and the pamphlets were classified in pigeon-holes, or put, singly,
into stout manilla envelopes and shelved with books on the same
subjects. These ways were a gain in convenience over the bundles,
but it was found that they not unfrequently got mixed in the pigeonholes in the one case, and in the other that the pamphlet and its
envelope got separated from each other. And there was nothing in
either method that helped the pamphlet to resist wear when in use.
It was then decided to resort to binding. The pamphlets that were
used a great deal, and those that from the nature of their contents
were sure to be so used in the future, were bound, singly, in good,
durable materials. Those of less importance were also bound
singly, but more cheaply. Still others were classified and bound
in volumes. In this way several hundreds were disposed of. The
time since this was done is too short for judging perfectly of the
wisdom of the step, but there are various gratifying results already
apparent. In two large libraries in the east, which I visited in the
summer, I found that this policy upon which we had entered, had
prevailed for some time, and there was in the minds of the librarians no doubt of its wisdom.
When bound the pamphlet passes, of course, from the category
of unbound pamphlets. This fact will account for the smaller number of such reported this year.
THE NEEDS OF THE LIBRARY.-In my report of last year I
called attention to the need of more room for books, and more conveniences for certain classes of readers. The experience of the
3




94


OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


year just passed has emphasized these needs. In the near future
there must be some relief for this congested state of things.
It may seem unreasonable to press the need of more books
when I have just called attention to the need of more room for
the books we already have. There is, however, no want more
keenly felt than this one of more books. The phrase, more books,
may seem vague, is vague, indeed, but the vagueness will disappear,
if anyone will ask, with a purpose to supply the want, the question,
what books? The phrase represents the aggregate of hundreds of
specific-painfully specific-wants.  A generous appropriation by
the Legislature of 1893, supplemented by generous gifts from
wealthy friends-such gifts as have recently enriched the libraries
of sister institutions-would strengthen the University as no other
benefactions can.
THE OTHER LIBRARIES.
The additions to the Medical Library were 559 volumes and 35
unbound pamphlets. Of these 419 volumes were bought; 33 volumes and 35 unbound pamphlets were presented, and 107 volumes
were the result of binding periodicals. The total of bills certified
to by me for this library was $1,698.97. Of this sum $1,105.52 were
for books, $475.10 were for subscriptions to periodicals, and $118.35
were for binding and mending.
The most important of the Medical pamphlets received the
same treatment that I have described in regard to those of the
General Library, and the total number of unbound Medical
pamphlets has been correspondingly reduced.
The additions to the Law Library were 354 volumes.
The changes that the enlargement of the Law building made
possible in the library room, have greatly improved it, and make it
one of the most convenient and pleasant places for study to be
found anywhere.
The additions to the Library of the Dental College were 52
volumes. The usefulness of this collection has been greatly increased by the preparation of a special catalogue of the books, and
by the appointment of a person to care for them.
Very respectfully submitted,
Oct. 12, 1892.              RAYMOND C. DAVIs, Librarian.
Prof. M. E. Cooley, Chairman of the University Committee on the World's Fair, stated that the State Commission had set apart $3,000 of the Legislative Appropriation
for the use of the University in making an exhibit, but




OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


95


insisted that we should prepare and display the Mammals
of the State to be exhibited in the State Building at Chicago. Professor Cooley said that to do this would require
all the money at the disposal of the Committee, and the
University would be unable to take any part in the General Educational Exhibit unless more money was provided.
Whereupon Regent Whitman moved that the President
appoint three members of the Board as a committee to
confer with the State Commission with a view of obtaining a more liberal share of the State money.
The motion    was carried.    The President named
Regents Barbour, Cook, and Butterfield as such committee.
Regent Cocker, Chairman of the Finance Committee,
presented and read the Annual Report of the Committee,
as follows:
To the Board of Regents:
The Finance Committee herewith submit the Treasurer's annual
statement of receipts and expenditures for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1892, together with estimates of receipts and expenditures for
the year ending June 30, 1893.
The books and accounts of the Steward and Treasurer for the
year ending June 30, 1892, have been carefully examined, and all
vouchers have been examined in detail. A few discrepancies and
inaccuracies of minor importance have been discovered, but these
do not affect the general accuracy of the Treasurer's report, or the
condition of the University finances. Attention has been called to
any inaccuracies that may have occurred.
In view of the unusual demands made on the Treasury of the
University during the past year, your committee take pleasure in
calling attention to the hopeful condition of the finances of the University, as shown by the annexed reports. If, however, any expenditures are required in addition to the estimated disbursements,
relief must be sought from the Legislature.
W. J. COCKER,
CHARLES HEBARD.
ESTIMATED RECEIPTS.
Balance in Treasury July 1, 1892 ---$ _ ___ --- —--------------— _  $ 13,949 04
From State Treasurer-Interest and Aid, due and unpaid —. ---, 24,000 00
To be received from University Interest__ _- _ --- —------  38,500 00
' "<  "     " 1-20 Mill Tax -_____  _0 --- —-----— _ ---__  56,500 00
(" "  " i  for Homceopathic College and Hospital _... --- —-  14,200 00




96           OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.
To be received from College of Dental Surgery ---- _ ---   12,000 00
"i" 4 "  "  Current Expenses of University Hospital --  8,000 00
* i"  "   " Contingent Expenses _____ --- —--— __ - -  12,500 00
" "  " It   Books for Libraries ----— __ _ --- —-— __  7,500 00
" "  "  from Interest on Bank Deposits __ --- __ ---- 2,100 00
I" "  "   s" Sales of Dental Supplies — ---— __ ---- 4,500 00
I "  "   <("  " at University Hospital _ --- —----  4,173 00
6" "    "   "   " Honoeopathic Hospital ---  - -  700 00
" "  "   " Students' Fees, Medical Departmelnt _ --- —-__ 13,250 00
" i"  "  " I"      "  Literary  "  _____- _  39,895 00
" " ( "  "   "  "  "  Law    "    -_____ _  29,225 00
"  "  "  "    "    "  Dental,  "  ______ _  7,325 00
" "  "   "    " t" Homceopathic   __ --- — 3,135 00
" "  "   "    "t   "  Pharmacy  "         3,645 00
I" "  "  " Chemical Laboratory Supplies --— __.___ ---- 11,633 00
" "  "   " Engineering "   "  _-________ 1,028 00
"  "  "  "  Botanical  t"  "      ________  312 00
("  "  "  <"  Physiological  "  "t  __________ 162 00
" "  "   " Zoological  "   "  -----— ___ _  207 00
("  "  "  "  Histological  "  "  _ —________ 466 00
" "  (   " Pathological "  "  ------— ___  715 00
"   "   "  Hygienic  "    "  _ --- --------- 795 00
" "  "   " General Chemistry ------- -------- _675 00
"    "  "  " Practical Anatomy _ --- —— _- -----— _   2,360 00
"" ""    " Electrical Engineering _ _ --- —---— __ —  426 00
(" "  "  " Electro-Therapeutics -. --- —------—.  376 00
" <"  " "' Diplomas -----— __ —____ --- —------ 7,000 00
$321,252 04
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS.
Salaries at Dental College- ------------------------------- $ 10,000 00
" " University Hospital ---------------— __________ 3,300 00
"  " Homoeopathic College -— _ _ --- —------------  13,000 00
" in all other Departments ----------—. 185,000 00
$211,300 00
For Current Expenses of Homoeopathic Hospital __ --- —- _-, —  1,200 00
"   "    "   " University Hospital _- _ ---- _  9,000 00
"Contingent Expenses -—._ _ ___ ------—._ _ --- —----  12,500 00
" Repairs ------------- __  __.. --- ------------—. ----___  _5,000 00
Purchase of Books for Libraries-______ ------------- 7,500 00
" Fuel and Lights-_____ _ --- —----------------   15,000 00
" Postage ------ -- ___ ----------------------- 1,500 00
"Insurance _ -----—.__ _______ -----------— 1,200 00
Calendar, Regents' Proceedings, and Miscellaneous Printing-_ 4,000 00
" Current Expenses of General Library ----------— _- -___   500 00
"    " "     " Museum -___________ --- —----- -  600 00
"4  "       "  " Astronomical Observatory _ --- —---- 600 00
"   "    "   (" Hygienic Laboratory --------— ____  2,000 00
"Supplies for Pathological Laboratory ___ -------------  600 00
"   "   ' Botanical  "t  ------ -------------  500 00
"   "   " Histological  "  -----  ---------  500 00




OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.                        97
For Supplies for Physiological Laboratory --- —------ ----     600 00
"  "    "Engineering       "              -_____ --- —---------  1,500 00
"  "  Zoological     "       _______________ --- —    600 00
t"    "    "l Laboratory of Materia Medica — -----  ------   800 00
"    (" Electro-Therapeutics -----------------         500 00
"    "; General Chemistry --------    --------------    800 00
"      ("  " Dental Operating Room --- —----     ---------   3,000 00
"     "<   " Anatomical Material --- —----     ------------  3,000 00
" Use of Water --- —----                            -------   60 00
" Purchase of and filling Diplomas ------------------ -  -  1,200 00
Commencement Expenses -----------    -----— ___ ------     1,200 00
"Supplies for Chemical Laboratory -------- ----  ---------  8,000 00
"Advertising ---------------   -------------     ---------   800 00
" School Inspection --- —--------------------                 400 00
Grading of Hospital Grounds --- —-----       --------------  2,000 00
Transportation of Roger's Gifts_ --- —------- -----------  1,300 00
Balance on hand --- —-------------- ------------------       21,451 44
$321,252 04
TREASURER'S REPORT.
To the Finance Committee, Board of Regents, University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN: Herewith I submit my annual report for the year ending
June 30th, 1892.          Respectfully,
H. SOULE, TREASURER.
RECEIPTS.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1891 ----- ------ ----------   $ 31,711 26
From State Treasurer, Account of Current Expenses --— $130,517 63
From State Treasurer, Account of Special Appropriations 113,125 00
From Earnings of the University, Current Expenses,
General Account___ --- —---------------     - 136,758 54 380,401 17
$412,112 43
DISBURSEMENTS.
From General Fund, Current Expense Account --- —----— $262,340 44
From Special Funds, Appropriations Account- -------- 135,822 95
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1892 --- —----------- 13,949 04 $412,112 43
GENERAL FUND.
RECEIPTS TO THE GENERAL FUND.
From State Treasurer, Account 1-20 Mill Tax __ --- —- $ 73,215 63
(         " "  "    "    University Interest —. --- 57,302 00
"  Sale of Material, University Hospital --- —-----  4,173 44
*"   "          "  "  Homceopathic Hospital ---------  711 32
("  " "      "    Dental Operating Rooms ------— _ 4,654 10
"    " "      ("   Medical Schools -------------   472 42
"  Miscellaneous Sources --- ---   ---------------  1,561 18
" Interest on Deposits___ --- —-------------      2,105 81
"  Students' Fees, Account Medical Department ___ —  13,250 00
" Literary          "     --- 39,895 00
Law             "   -_ ---  29,225 00
"     Dental        "      ---  7,325 00
Homceopathic '        ____-  3,135 00
Pharmacy       "   _      3,645 00




98                OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.
From Students' Fees, Account Chemical Laboratory —__   11,633 65
"    Mechanical    "   ----   1,028 00
Botanical         ~ -"    - 312 00
Physiological "     --     162 00
"  Zoological   "    ---    207 00
"    Histological  "   ----    466 00
"    Pathological  "   -       715 00
" Hygienic         "   -----   795 16
"    General Chemistry Dept.   575 33
"    Key Deposits ____ --- --   300 00
Practical Anatomy-__ — _  2,360 00
Electrical Engineering..  426 00
"    Electrotherapeutics ------  376 00
"    Diplomas __ --- —---— _ ---_ 7,170 00
"    Photography -— _ ---        22 00
"    University Record — --— _  30 00 $267,249 04
DISBURSEMENTS FROM THE GENERAL FUND.
Balance overdrawn, July 1st, 1891 _ —$____ --- —---- $ 2,518 00
General Pay Roll of Officers, Professors and Employees- 174,056 75
Vouchers Paid, Account Students' Fees Refunded___ ---_  5,430 37
("   '     "    Fuel and Lights _ --- —----   9,604 61
"     "     "    General Library -----------   482 88
"     a     "    Museum ---— ____ --- —— _       630 18
"  "l "     "     Advertising Medical Departm't,  168 98
c" ("      "         "     Law       "        315 80
"  l"  "         <"    Pharmacy "         212 08
"     "     "    Miscellaneous Printing _ --- —---  1,773 43
"     "     "     Civil Engineering_ ---------- 173 25
"   ("   "    Chemical Laboratory.. --- —— _  7,823 61
"  "     <"   Histological  "   --------     341 55
"      ("   "    Botanical    "    ------- -    363 05
"(  "    "    Physical     "      -____ _    28 92
"     "     "    Physiological"     ---------   357 05
"     "     "    Mechanical   "     ------- - 1,415 36
" "      "  "    Zoological   "     ---------   617 97
t     "     "    Pathological "    --------     454 51
"    ',    "    Hygienic    "     ___ ---_     750 56
"     "t    "    Anatomical   "     -    ----- 2,681 72
"     <"    "    General Chemistry Laboratory,  809 14
" "  "   "Astronomical Observatory --— _  307 04
"     "     "    Postage ------ -----------   1,167 74,"    "     "    Dental Supplies —  -------   3,059 35,"    "     "     Calendar -----------------   1,750 29
',    '-    "    Contingent Expenses —_ _ --- —-  33,505 89,t  "    "<   Electrotherapeutics --------  514 39
"     "     "     Materia Medica. --- —------ ----  834 77
"     "     "    Construction -------------- 12,265 98, "         "    School Inspection ---— _ --- ——.  393 22
'  "    "    Insurance ---------— ____      50 00 $264.858 44
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1892 --- _______ --- —---------  2,390 60
$267,249 04




OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.                      99
SPECIAL FUND ACCOUNTS.
HOM(EOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1891 -- ------------- - $ 4,266 60
From State Treasurer-__..-.......... -------    6,000 00 $ 10,266 60
Disbursements.
Paid Salaries of Professors and Employees __-___ --- —--  $ 2,700 00
Paid Vouchers for Expenses -__  ______ --- —--------  2,550 88
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1892 ____-__ --- —----  5,015 72 $ 10,266 60
HOM(EOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE AND HOSPITAL.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1891 -__ ___ --- —-----  292 47
From State Treasurer -- ____ ____ --- —-- ____  _ — _- 10,000 00  10,292 47
Disbursements.
Paid Salaries of Professors and Employees -__ --- —------  9,130 59
Paid Vouchers for Expenses — ____ -------------— _  992 97
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1892 --- —-------------  168 91  10,292 47
GENERAL LIBRARY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1891_-2___ --- —-------  277 57
From State Treasurer -_______ --- —-------------- _7,500 00
Balance overdrawn, June 30th, 1892. ----_ —. --- —----  283 49  8,061 06
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses_ - ----------- ___ — ___-_ ________  8,061 06
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer_-_____ --- —------------ 10,000 00
Balance overdrawn, June 30th, 1892 __- -_ --- —------  163 38  10,163 38
Disbursements.
Balance overdrawn July 1st, 1891__ -------- - __ ----  1,035 89
Paid Vouchers for Expenses — __ ---__  __  ____-   5,837 33
Paid Salaries Resident Physicians and Employees — _ ---  3,290 16  10,163 38
CONTINGENT.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1891 -----------------  1,464 93
From State Treasurer______ -_ __ --- —------------ 12,500 00  13,964 93
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses —_______ --- —----------  10,904 06
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1892______ --- —-----  3,060 87  13,964 93
REPAIRS.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1891 _-__ --- —-------  577 97
From State Treasurer ----       _ --- —--------------  5,000 00 5,577 97
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses -- -_ —__ --- —----------- ____ _  4,395 41


Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1892 ------—, --- —-----------


1,182 56   5,577 97




100                OCTOBER MEETING, 1899.
PHYSIOLOGICAL LABORATORY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1891 --- —------ ---      15       15
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses --- —------------------       15       15
ENGINEERING LABORATORY,
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1891 --- -----------  319 25   319 25
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses. --- —-------—. --- —----------  319 25  319 25
PHYSICAL LABORATORY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1891 -____ -----------  1,505 76
From State Treasurer --—. --- —--- ------ --------  1,500 00
Balance overdrawn, June 30th, 1892_-__ — -----------  183 12  3,188 88
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses_______ --- —- --------   3,188 88  3,188 88
DENTAL SURGERY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1891 ------------- _- 1,292 56
From State Treasurer --- —-----    - ---- --  --- 12,000 00  13,292 56
Disbursements.
Paid Salaries of Professors and Employees ----— _ --- —---  9,262 50
Paid Vouchers for Expenses _ —       __ --- —---------  1,151 94
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1892 --- —-----------  2,878 12  13,292 56
SCIENTIFIC LABORATORIES.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1891_ --- —-------------  22 97  22 97
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses --- —-------   -----------  22 97    22 97
REMOVAL OF ROGERS' GIFTS.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1891-__ --- —--------  158 19   158 19
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses ------ ------      ----    86 12
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1892..... --- —-----—.......  72 07  158 19
COMPLETION OF ENGINEERING LABORATORY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1891 ----— $ --- — — $  133 63 $  133 63
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses ------------------        133 63   133 63
EQUIPMENT OF ENGINEERING LABORATORY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1891 - _ --- —---------  931 01
From State Treasurer  ------------------------- ----  4,000 00  4,931 01
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses --- —----    -------------  3,249 98
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1892 --- — ----------  1,681 03  4,931 01




OCTOBEJR- MEETING, 1892.                  1~1
CIVIL ENGINEERING.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1891 ---— __ --- —-----  681 65  681 65
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1892 - _  _ --- —------  681 65  681 65
ENLARGEMENT OF DENTAL COLLEGE.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st, 1891 —_____ —_ --- — ---  2,910 00  2,910 00
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses --- —--------  ------- 2,910 00  2,910 00
ADDITION TO CHEMICAL LABORATORY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st, 1891 ----------— ___   1 79  1 79
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses_ ---   -----------       1 79    1 79
HYGIENIC LABORATORY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st, 1891 __- _  ------------  679 13  679 13
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses --- —----  ------------  679 13  679 13
BOTANICAL AND ZOOLOGICAL LABORATORIES.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st, 1891 ----— _ --------  1,000 00
From State Treasurer --- —--- -- ---  ---  --    1,000 00  2,000 00
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses --- —---- -------------  1,477 47
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1892 ---- ___ --- —- -  522 53  2,000 00
REPAIRS ON CHEMICAL BUILDING.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st, 1891  ----------------  371 62
From State Treasurer______ --- —----------       1,625 00
From Earnings ---------   --------------------    27 13
Balance Overdrawn June 30th, 1892 --- —_ --- —-------  48 48  2,072 23
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses --- — ----   --------  2,072 23  2,072 23
INSURANCE.
Reeeipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st, 1891 ---__ ----------  500 00
From State Treasurer -- ----- ----------        1,500 00  2,000 00
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses --- —---— _ — -------  791 00
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1892 —___ __ --- —----  1,209 00  2,000 00
ENLARGE)IENT AND ALTERATION OF DENTAL BUILDING.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury June 1st, 1891 _-____ --- — -_-  2,000 00
From State Treasurer _-_ --- —------------ 8,000 00
Balance Overdrawn June 30th, 1892 ---- ---------   1,471 42  11,471 42




102               OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses ------------— 11471 42         11.4 71 42
NEW HOSPITALS.
Receipts.
From Balance in Treasury July 1st, 1891 --— __ ----_  - 11,077 90
From State Treasurer _-_ --- —-------------. —_ 25,000 00 36,077 90
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses _ — ---—. ------ -3. ---  36,077 90  36,077 90
ENLARGEMENT AND ALTERATION OF LAW BUILDING.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st, 1891 — _ ----_ ---- ------  4,800 00
From State Treasurer --------— _ -- -  _ — -7 --- —_-   7,500 00
Balance Overdrawn June 30th, 1892 --------— _ -------   2,764 13  15,064 13
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses ----- ___ ___ --- —-----  15,064 13  15,064 13
SPECIAL FUNDS.
BALANCES IN TREASURY JUNE 30th, 1892.
Homoeopathic Medical College --- --—, ---- - 5 ---._ 5,015 72
Homceopathic Hospital and College ---------------  168 91
Contingent ------------- _ __ ___ --- —-. --- —--  3,060 87
Repairs -----— _________- -------— _ --- —        1,182 56
Dental College ---— _ --- —---------— _ --- —---- 2,878 12
Rogers' Gifts __ --- —- ----------------            72 07
Equipment of Engineering Laboratory --------------  1,681 03
Civil Engineering --------------------------------- 681 65
Botanical and Zoological Laboratories. --- —-_ --- —_  522 53
Insurance -------------------------—, -____ ---_ 1,209 00 16,472 46
Deduct for Balances Overdrawn June 30th, 1892.
General Library -— __ _______ --- —--------------  283 49
University Hospital _-_ --- —---------------— _ 163 38
Physical Laboratory --- -- ___ --- —--------------  183 12
Repairs of Chemical Laboratory --- —-—., — ---------  48 48
Enlargement and Alteration of Dental Building -_-_. ----  1,471 42
Enlargement and Alteration of Law Building_ ___ --- —--  2,764 13  4,914 02
Total Special Fund, Balance in Treasury June 30th, '92,  $11,558 44
GIFTS.
Under this head are included gifts which the Regents have received from
time to time from benefactors for general purposes, or for stated special purposes. The account is as follows:
PHILO PARSONS FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st, 1891 ---------- --------------  95 51
Interest to June 30th, 1892 — __ ---  _ _ --- —------  2 96   98 47
Disbursements.


Balance in Treasury June Both, 1892-.


98 47       98 47




OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.                        103
MARY JANE PORTER FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st, 1891 _ --- —------------ -  580 00
Interest to June 30th, 1892     __ --- —---- ------------  23 58  603 58
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1892__ ----  -------    60 603 58  603 58
G(ETHE FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st, 1891 --- —----------------  343 23
Interest to June 30th, 1892 --------- ------- ------   17 98   361 21
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses --- —----- ------ -----     31 06
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1892 —___ — -------    330 15   361 21
ELISHA JONES CLASSICAL FELLOWSHIP.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st, 1891_ —_ --- -------      1 42
From Mrs. Elisha Jones   __ --- —--------    --------  500 00
Interest to June 30th, 1892 --- ------------- -----      49    501 91
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers --------. --- —---- -------------    500 00
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1892 ---------------    1 91    501 91
STEARNS FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st, 1891 ____ --- —-----     508 33
Interest --------  ---------------------- -    ----   15 39    523 72
Disbursements.
Paid General Account for Expenses --- —-------------   523 72   523 72
ANN ARBOR CITY FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st, 1891 — ----------------------  4,067 45
From City Payment of Bonds -------    --------------  3,000 00
From City Interest on Bonds -------- ----- ------     840 00
From Bank Interest on Deposits -. ----  -------------  227 06  8,134 51
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1892 ------------ -----  8,134 51  8,134 51
GENERAL ACCOUNT, CONTINGENT.
Receipts.
From Stearns Fund, Transfer-.... --- ——......... ---- ------  523 72
Interest to June 30th, 1892 ---------------------- ----------  5 24  528 96
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1892 ----------- -----  528 96  528 99
GYMNASIUM FUND.
Receipts.
From Donations --- —------------     --------        15,594 61
Interest to June 30th, 1892 ------------------- ----  160 80  15,755 41
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses --- —---  ---   -------    4,567 67
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1892 --- —-------- --- 11,187 74  15,755 41




104


OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


WOMEN'S GYMNASIUM.
Receipts.
From Donations --- —------ ------------ ------ 1,038 60
Interest to June 30th, 1892 --- ----------------------  6 29  1,044 89
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1892 ------------- -  1,044 89  1,044 89
ART FUND.
Receipts.
From Donations --- —---------------------------    278 20
Interest to June[30th, 1892 ------------------ --------  46  278 66
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses --- — —. --- —. --- —-----------  197 84
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1892 --- —---- --------  80 82  278 66
AFFAIRS OF THE HOSPITALS.
The Superintendent of the Hospitals reports to the Auditing Board the
following as all the business done by him during the year, and to June
30th, 1892, inclusive, which embraces only the running expenses of the Hospitals and does not include the maintainance or permanent expenses, which
are met by special appropriations of the legislature.
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL.
Receipts and Disbursements.
From collections and earnings ---------------  $. ---  $ 16,315 56
Amount refunded by Supt. Joseph Clark --------- --  4,604 10
Expenses paid   "   "    ("   ''      -------    7,894 95
Cash to Treasurer "        ". _ --- —-- ______-  3,816 51  16,315 56
HOMCEOPATHIC HOSPITAL.
Receipts and Disbursements.
From collections and earnings — ---- --------------      5,921 74
Amount refunded by Supt. Joseph Clar k --- —-------  2,366 32
Expenses paid  i'  "        "     "___________   3,120 58
Cash to Treasurer   "             -----------------  434 84  5,921 74
The report was accepted and adopted by the following
vote:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker, Cook,
Howard, and Barbour.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the question of keeping the Hospitals open next year during the summer vacation was referred to the Medical Committee for consideration.
Regent Butterfield presented and read the following
communication     from   Dr. V. C. Vaughan, Dean of the
Department of Medicine and Surgery:




OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


105


ANN ARBOR, Oct. 6, 1892.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Gentlemen,-The Medical Faculty make the following requests
of you:
(1) That the degree of Doctor of Medicine be conferred upon
Thomas Earl Burgess and William Issachar St. John, Ph. C. These
gentlemen were in the class of 1892, but were conditioned on one or
more subjects, and were given until this time to remove the conditions. Having done so, we ask that you graduate them as members
of the class of 1892.
(2) That Clarissa Bigelow be appointed Assistant Demonstrator
of Anatomy in place of Henrietta Carr, whose ill health will not
permit her to do the work.
(3) That John Watson Durkee be appointed assistant in the
Hygienic Laboratory in the place of H. E. Baright, who was not
re-appointed last June.
There is no additional expense connected with any of these
recommendations.           Respectfully,
VICTOR C. VAUGHAN.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, all the recommendations contained in the foregoing communication were
adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker, Cook,
Howard, and Barbour.
Nays-None.
On the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the degree of
Bachelor of Science (in Civil Engineering) was conferred
upon James Noble Hatch; and the degree of Bachelor
of Philosophy on Robert Holland.
The following communication from the Faculty of the
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, was read
by Regent Whitman, and received the approval of the
Board:
ANN ARBOR, Oct. 11, 1892.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
Gentlemen,-I have the honor to report to you that the Faculty
have adopted the following resolution, and submit it to your Honorable Body for approval:
Resolved, That members of the present senior class, who are within
thirty hours of graduation, be permitted to elect the University System, elect



106


OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


ing a major subject only, which shall be regarded as equivalent to one-half
the number of hours remaining for graduation; the remainder to be taken
on the credit system.
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DE PONT, Registrar.
On motion of Regent Cook, the resignation of Mr. P.
F. Trowbridge, Assistant in the Chemical Laboratory, was
accepted; and David L. Davoll, Jr., was appointed to fill
the vacancy at the regular salary, viz., $200.
Regent Hebard moved that an appropriation of $150
be made for the purpose of making four cases for use in
the Geological Museum. The motion prevailed by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker, Cook,
Howard, and Barbour.
Nays-None.
Regent Butterfield moved that an appropriation of
$200 be made for the purpose of purchasing five operating
chairs for the Dental Department. The motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker, Cook,
Howard, and Barbour.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the sum of $500 was
appropriated from the General Fund for the purpose of
binding, rebinding, and mending books in the General
Library, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker, Cook,
Howard, and Barbour.
Nays-None.
The Board then adjourned to 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. M.
On motion of Regent Whitman, Superintendent Reeve
was directed to put tile in the amphitheater of the Homoeopathic Hospital, at a cost not exceeding $25; and to con



OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


107


struct a horse shed with three stalls adjacent to said Hospital, at a cost of $40.
The vote on Regent Whitman's motion was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker, Cook,
Howard, and Barbour.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Howard, Regents Butterfield
and Cook were added to the Committee on Buildings and
Grounds, for the purpose of settling with the contractors
for the new Hospitals.
Regent Butterfield moved that F. R. Mechem, of
Detroit, be appointed Tappan Professor of Law, in place
of Nathan Abbott, resigned, and that his salary be $2,200
per year, provided he does not practice in the Courts, and
that he reside in Ann Arbor.
Regent Howard moved to amend the resolution by
substituting the name of A. T. McAlvay in place of Mr.
Mechem. A call vote was taken on the amendment which
resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Cocker, Cook, and Howard.
Nays-Regents Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, and Barbour.
The amendment was declared lost, and the vote on
the original motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker, Howard, and Barbour.
Nays-Regent Cook.
Regent Butterfield moved that William Blair, M. ).,
be appointed Assistant in Electrotherapeutics for one year,
at a salary of $300; and that William L. Moore, M. D.
be appointed a Demonstrator of one of the new practical
courses in the Medical Department, established by the
Board at the May meeting. (See page 30 of the Regents'
Proceedings.)
The vote on these appointments was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker, Cook,
Howard, and Barbour.
Nays-None.




108


OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


Regent Whitman submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted.
Resolved, That the President and Secretary be authorized to
execute a release of the right of way for the extension of Huron
Street East, parallel with Ann Street, provided such conveyance be
approved by the Building Committee, acting conjointly with Regents
Butterfield and Cook.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the Executive Committee were authorized to appoint an Instructor in Mathematics, and an Instructor in History for one year, at a
salary of $900 each, by the full vote of the Board.
On the recommendation of the Law Faculty, Regent
Butterfield moved that the degree of Bachelor of Laws be
conferred upon the following:
Albion Frederic Merchant.
Franklin W. Callanm.
Thomas Shepard McClure.
Linford Elsworth Krotz.
The motion was carried.
Regent Butterfield moved that the Executive Committee be authorized to appoint five Quiz Masters in the
Law Department, at a salary of $100 each, for one year.
The motion was carried, as follows:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Cocker, Cook,
Howard, and Barbour.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Assistant Professor J. E.
Reighard was made Professor of Animal Morphology, by
the following vote.
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Hebard, Cocker, Cook, Howard, and
Barbour.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman called up the question of increasing
the salaries of Professors. He urged the Board to act at
once, as there was great danger of losing a number of our
best men by their being called to other universities at
double the salary we are paying here. He also stated that




OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


109


these men would much prefer to remain here, other things
being equal, but we could hardly expect to keep good men
here on a salary of $2,200, when they are offered $4,000 or
more to go elsewhere. He also stated that within the last
year there had been a general increase of salaries in many
of the eastern and western universities. He then submitted the following scheme, viz:-That the President's
salary be $6,000, and that the ordinary salary of full Professors in the Literary Department, of the Secretary and
of the Treasurer, shall be $2,500; but that after five years'
continuous service the salary shall be $2,700, and that
after ten years' service it shall be $3,000; which shall be
the maximum salary paid.
Regent Cocker moved that the scheme submitted by
Regent Whitman be approved by the Board, and that on
and after October 1, 1892, the salaries of the President, of
the Professors in the Literary Department, of the Secretary and of the Treasurer be established as follows:


President Angell,
Professor A. B. Prescott,
M. L. D'Ooge,
"    C. E. Greene,
W. H. Pettee,
E. L. Walter,
I. N. Demmon,
H. S. Carhart,
A. B. Hinsdale,
"    J. B. Steere,
"    A. H. Pattengill,
"    M. E. Cooley,
W. W. Beman,
H. C. Adams,
C. Thomas,
Librarian R. C. Davis,
Professor C. S. Denison,
"    V. M. Spalding,
R. Hudson,
'    A. A. Stanley,
"    J. Dewey,
F. W. Kelsey,
O. C. Johnson,
"    P. C. Freer,


$6,000
3,000
3,000
3,000
3,000
3,000
3,000
3,000
3,000
2,500
2,700
2,700
2,700
2,700
2,700
2,700
2,500
2,500
2,200
2,500
2,500
Absent


Permanently fixed.
To be raised to $3,000 October 1st, 1897
"d    " di   ".     is    " 1895


it.I c. ct Is
"n "d           "     " 2 2,700
"d "d       "     "   2 2,500
"( "    "      "   "  2,700
ct   tt    c6..     c.
~~ (i ~. cs cc


6"  "  1897
"  "  1897
"  " I 1897
"  "  1897
"  "  1895
"  1894
"  "  1893
is  "  1897
"  "I  1894
"  "I  1893
"  "  1894
S" "I  1894
*  "  1895


2,500
2,500


"   A. C. McLaughlin, 2,500


" "d " s  " " "  " S 1896




110


OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


Professor J. B. Davis,
"     A. Hall, Jr.,
I. C. Russell,
"     J. E. Reighard,
Secretary J. H. Wade,
Treasurer H. Soule,


2,500
2,500
2,500
2,500
2,700
2,500


To be raised to $2,700 October 1st, 1896
I   "  I I   "     "  "  4'  1897
is is is is ", "     "   1897
it "      " " "   d    " 1897
" "   "<  " 3,000  "   " 1897
~" "  "~  " 2,700 "    " i1893


A call vote being taken on Regent Cocker's motion,
resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Hebard, Cocker, Cook, Howard, and
Barbour.
Nays-None.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Wednesday, November 16, 1892.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




REGULAR MEETING.
Nove inber, 1892.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGANT, 
ANN ARBOR, November 16, 1S92.S
The Board assembled in' the room of the President
at 10 o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook,
Howard, and Barbour.
Absent-Regents Butterfield and Hebard.
The minutes of the September and October Meetings
of the Board not being yet printed, their approval was
deferred to the next meeting.
The Executive Committee submitted the following
report:
ANN ARBOR, NOV. 16, 1892.
The Executive Committee beg leave respectfully to report:
The Board at its last meeting authorized the appointment of an Instructor in Mathematics and an Instructor in History. The Executive Committee, on October 25th, appointed George F. Metzler, Ph. D., Instructor in
Mathematics, and E. W. Dow, A. B., Instructor in History.
JAMES B. ANGELL.
C. R. WHITMAN.
W. J. COCKER.
The report of the Executive Committee was adopted
by the following vote:
Ayes —Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook, Howard, and
Barbour.
Nays —None.
Regent Barbour moved that the following named persons be appointed Quiz Masters in the Law Department
for the ensuing year, at a salary of $100 each:
John W. Dwyer, LL. B., Fred A. Sheldon, LL. B., Frank M.
Wells, LL. B., Maris T. Kendig, LL. B., and Robert F. Thompson,
LL. B.




112


NO VEMBER MEETING, 1892.


The motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook, Howard, and
Barbour.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the degree of Bachelor
of Science was conferred upon Edwin Raymond Cole.
Regent Howard moved that Carl W. Belser, Ph. D.,
be reappointed Assistant Professor of Oriental Languages,
and for three years, at a salary of $1,600; that Archibald
Muirhead be appointed assistant to the Professor of
Materia Medica and Therapeutics in the Department of
Medicine and Surgery, for one year, at a salary of $300;
that Miss Alice L. Hunt be reappointed Assistant in Drawing, for one year, at a salary of $350; that P. H. Seymour,
B. S., be appointed Assistant in General Chemistry, for one
year, at a salary of $150; and that the title of Simon M.
Yutzy, M. )., be "Instructor in Osteology and Assistant
Demonstrator of Anatomy, and Assistant to the Professor
of Anatomy and Physiology."
The motion of Regent Howard was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook, Howard, and
Barbour.
N ays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the degree of M. D. was
conferred upon John Herman Mowers, as of the class of
1892.
Regent Kiefer presented the request of Gertrude H.
Frommnholz to be relieved from the payment of the annual fee in the Department of Medicine and Surgery, on
the ground that she is a graduate of this University. The
request was denied by the Board.
Regent Kiefer moved that an appropriation of $200
be made for the purpose of erecting a suitable shed for
horses, at the Homoeopathic Hospital, and that Superintendent Reeve be directed to cause the same to be built
at once.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1892.


113


A call vote being taken on this motion resulted as
follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook, Howard, and
Barbour.
Nays-None.
Regent Cocker moved that a sum not exceeding $500
be appropriated from the Homoeopathic fund for the purchase of instruments for use in the Homoeopathic Hospital, or so much thereof as the Medical Committee shall
deem necessary after examining the instruments now on
hand, and that the Chairman of the Medical Committee be
requested to aid the Dean of the Department in the selection and purchase of said instruments; also that a sum
not exceeding $200 be set apart for equipping the amphitheatre of the Homoeopathic Hospital.
The vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook, Howard, and
Barbour.
Nays-None.
Regent Barbour submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted by the full vote of the Board:
Resolved, That on the purchase of all surgical instruments,
they be delivered to the Deans of the respective Faculties on their
giving a receipt in detail therefor, and that the Deans be required to
keep an account thereof, and that they be held responsible therefor.
On motion, the Board took a recess to 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the Committee on Buildings and Grounds were instructed to examine, and report
at the next meeting of the Board, the best method of supplying better water-closet accommodations on the campus.
Regent Whitman moved that the Auditing Board
employ a janitor to keep the closets clean, and do such
other work as may be needed.
The vote on this motion was as follows:




114


NO VEMBER MEETING, 1892.


Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook, Howard, and
Barbour.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman moved that the following appointments be made in the Law      Department for the year
1892-3:
Samuel Maxwell, Lecturer on Code Pleading, at a salary of
$400.
William G. Hammond, LL. )., Lecturer on History of Common
Law, at a salary of $350.
And, also, that the salary of E. F. Johnson be made $600, with
the understanding that he is to keep a record, showing the credits
and conditions in the students' work.
And, also, that a sum not exceeding $150 dollars be appropriated for the purpose of employing two assistants in the Library, to
be appointed by the Board.
The vote on Regent Whitman's motion resulted as
follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook, Howard, and
Barbour.
Nays-None.
Assistant Professor Trueblood addressed the Board,
and asked that he be given the title and pay of a full
Professor. The matter was laid on the table.
Dr. Gibbs presented a schedule of carpenter work
amounting to at least $600, which he claimed was necessary to be done in order to put his Laboratory in good
working order. The matter was laid on the table until
the next meeting of the Board.
On motion, the Board adjourned to December 21,
1892.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




DECEMBER MEETING.
1892.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, Dec. 21, 1892. 
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock, A. M.
Present - Regents Whitman, Kiefer, Butterfield,
Cocker, Cook, Howard and Barbour.
Absent-Regent Hebard.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the minutes of the three
previous meetings were approved as printed.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the salary of the Director of the Observatory was permanently fixed at $2,500,
with house and grounds.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the Board went into
executive session and were addressed by the Homoeopathic
Faculty, and by Dr. J. C. Nottingham, of Bay City, and
Dr. D. M. Nottingham, of Lansing, representing the Homceopathic medical profession of the State, on matters relating to the Homoeopathic Medical Department.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the matter was.referred
to the Medical Committee of the Board.
On motion, the Board took a recess to 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
Regent Whitman presented and read the following
communication from the Secretary of the Council of the
Graduate School:




116


DECEMBER MEETING, 1892.


ANN ARBOR, December 20, 1892.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
At a meeting of the Administrative Council of the Graduate
School connected with the Department of Literature, Science and
the Arts, held last evening, it was voted that, in the opinion of tile
Council, it is undesirable to continue the practice of enrolling as
candidates for degrees of Master of Arts, Master of Philosophy,
Master of Science, and Master of Letters, students who are pursuing their studies for these degrees in absentia; and the Secretary of
the Council was instructed to communicate this action to the Board
of Regents, and to request them to take such action as will authorize the discontinuance of the practice.
The action taken by the Council does not contemplate the withdrawal of any privileges already granted to absentia students, nor
any change in the conditions on which second degrees in Engineering can be earned.
Very Respectfully,
W. H. PETTEE,
Secretary of the Council.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the action of the
Council, as set forth in the foregoing communication, was
approved by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the degree of M. D. was
conferred upon John W. Dobson, in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of
Medicine and Surgery.
Regent Kiefer moved that Leverge Knapp, Ph. B.,
and James Arneill, A. B., be appointed Assistant Demonstrators of Anatomy for the remainder of the year, and
that the salary of each be at the rate of $200 per year.
This motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Kiefer, Butterfield, Cocker, Howard
and Barbour.
Nays-None.
The request of Dr. Dock for an appropriation of $30
for supplies in his Laboratory was referred to the Auditing Board.
Regent Kiefer presented the request of Dr. Herdman
for an appropriation of $400, for the purchase of instru



DECEMBER MEETING, 1892.


117


nments for the use of the Professor of Nervous Diseases in
the Hospital, and for use in the Laboratory of ElectroTherapeutics. The request was granted by the following
vote:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Kiefer, Cocker, Cook, Howard and
Barbour.
Nay-Regent Butterfield.
Regent Kiefer offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That Emory L. Niskern be appointed dispensing
clerk in the Laboratory of Electro-Therapeutics for one year, at a
salary of $100; and that $150 be appropriated for the purchase of a
microtome for the Pathological Laboratory; and also that the Secretary be authorized to expend $200 in carpenter work to fit up the
Pathological Laboratory.
The resolution of Regent Kiefer was carried, as follows:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Kiefer, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook,
Howard and Barbour.
Nays —None.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Assistant Professor L. C.
Trueblood was made Professor of Elocution and Oratory
at a salary of $2,500, to begin January 1, 1893, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Kiefer, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook,
Howard and Barbour.
Nays-None.
Regent Barbour submitted a communication from Dr.
Ellis, which was referred to the Medical Committee of the
Board.
On motion of Regent Whitman, an appropriation of
$100 was made for the purchase of a camera and accessories, for the use of the Department of Civil Engineering,
by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Kiefer, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook,
Howard and Barbour.
Nays-None.




118          DECEMBER MEETING, 1892.
After giving some consideration to the subject of a
memorial to the legislature, on motion, the Board adjourned to January 11, 1893.
JAMES H. WADE, Secretary.




JANUARY MEETING.
1893.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,  }
ANN ARBOR, January 11, 1893. 
The Board of Regents assembled in the room of the
President at 10 o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield,
Cocker, Cook, Howard, and Barbour.
The minutes of the last meeting were read by the Secretary, and on motion of Regent Whitman they were
approved.
Professor M. E. Cooley, Chairman of the Committee
on the World's Columbian Exposition, addressed the
Board on matters relating to that subject.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Regents Kiefer and
Cook were permitted to exchange places as Chairmen of
the Committee on Museum and of the Committee on the
School of Pharmacy.
On motion, the Board took a recess until 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock P. M., and went
into executive session.
The Medical Committee to whom were referred at the
last meeting certain matters relating to the Homoeopathic
Medical Department, made, through their Chairman,
Regent Kiefer, a lengthy written report; which was, on
motion of Regent Whitman, accepted and laid on the
table for the present.




120


JANUARY MEETING, 1893.


Regent Kiefer moved that the sum of $110.00 be appropriated for the purchase of plates and illustrative
material to be used in the Laboratory of Metallurgy.
The motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook,
Howard, and Barbour.
Nays-None.
EVENING SESSION.
On motion of Regent Whitman an appropriation of
$250.00 was made for the purchase of illustrative material
for the Department of Latin, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Cocker, Cook,
Howard, and Barbour.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Committee on the
Museum were requested to confer with the Scientific Association of Detroit and the Committee on the Detroit
Public Library in regard to securing for the University a
certain scientific collection now in Detroit.
The President presented and read the following, as
the Memorial of the Board to the Legislature, which was,
on motion of Regent Barbour adopted:
lfemorial of the Board of Regents of the University of
Michigan.
To the Honorable, the Senate, and the House of Representatives:
The undersigned, Regents of the University of Michigan, in
asking your aid in the maintenance of the Institution committed to
their care, beg leave briefly, but frankly, to make known to you
some of its most pressing needs.
It is now twenty-five years since its remarkable growth carried
its necessary expenditures beyond the sum accruing from the
national endowment and the fees of students. Every legislature
since 1867, acting in accordance with the recommendation of committees which have carefully scrutinized its work, has seen fit to
make appropriations to assist it. We are sure that no similar institution in the country is more economically administered. The




JANUARY MEETING, 1893.


121


Universities, which are to be compared with ours in size, expend
annually from fifty per cent. to three hundred per cent. more than
we.
Our embarrassments arise in large part from our prosperity,
and our prosperity, we may fairly claim, is due to the merits of the
university. The number of our students has steadily increased
from 1,285 in 1884-5 to between 2,700 and 2,800 the present year.
This increase has made heavy demands on us for an increase in the
force of teachers, for the enlargement of old buildings, and for the
construction of new buildings.
With this preliminary statement we will name the following as
in our opinion the most urgent wants at this time, although it would
be easy to name others which are scarcely less urgent than these.
I. General repairs of buildings.  Our completed buildings
number seventeen. Several of them are of great size. Their appraised value is $726,410. We desire the same moderate sum
granted by the last Legislature, $5,000 a year.
II. The Dental College, the Homceopathic College and Hospital, and the University Hospital all depend entirely on biennial
appropriations of the legislature for their support, except that the
Homoeopathic College receives $6,000 a year under the act of 1875.
For the Dental College, although the number of students has considerably increased, we ask only the continuance of the last appropriation, $12,000 a year. The school has the highest reputation in
this country and abroad.
The necessary expense of sustaining the two new Hospitals is
somewhat greater than that of maintaining the old ones, formerly
occupied. We are therefore compelled to ask a little more for each.
We request $10,000 a year for the Homceopathic College and
Hospital, and $12,000 a year for the University Hospital. These
Hospitals are really State charities.  We charge poor patients
merely the price of board, and furnish them medical or surgical
treatment gratuitously. Many persons,. who would become a permanent charge to the counties, are here restored to health and are
able to support themselves.
III. Contingent Expenses. With so large a business as we
have to conduct, we must have within reach a certain amount to
meet expenses, which cannot be foreseen or at least estimated in
advance. We solicit the continuance of the last appropriation,
$12,500 for each year.
IV. Books for the Libraries. There is nothing which the
teachers in the University regard as more necessary than a large




122


JANUARY MEETING, 1893.


addition to the Libraries. Books are the one thing absolutely indispensable to a University. Your appropriation has to furnish
every volume we buy, whether for the general library or for the
professional schools. The large number of resident graduates pursuing advanced studies in the graduate school, to which the Literary Faculty is now giving great attention, must have a large
supply of costly books for their work, which is in the most emphatic
sense the best work of a University. Our Library is far behind that
of the better universities. We ask your special consideration of a
request for $15,000 a year for the purchase of books.
V. Salaries of Teachers. Our rapid growth has called for a
considerable addition to our force of teachers, especially in the Literary Department. Having more than doubled the number of
students in a few years, we have been compelled to enlarge our
corps of instructors of various grades.  Our salary bill has thus
become so much enlarged that we are constrained to ask you to appropriate $15,000 a year towards paying for instruction.
VI. Freight on the Rogers Collection. We have now received
the last shipment of the Rogers Collection of Statuary, presented
some years ago by the renowned Michigan sculptor, Randolph
Rogers. This shipment comprises the famous Columbus Doors of
the Capitol at Washington. The statues and adornments of the
Doors all illustrate the story of the life of Columbus and of the
Discovery of America. They are of course studied with special
interest just now, and are perhaps the most meritorious work of the
sculptor. The packing and transportation have cost $1,400. As
previous legislatures have so cheerfully paid the freight on the
seventy or more statues and groups previously received, we trust
that you will reimburse us for the sum we have expended in securing this splendid addition to our Art Collection.
VII. Scientific work. Small sums are needed for carrying on
certain kinds of scientific work.
The Astronomical Observatory, which was presented by citizens
of Detroit, in 1853, and which by the discoveries of Watson made
the name of Michigan famous throughout the world, has never
asked for any help from the State. Several of the appliances, which
have been so many years in use, need renewal or improvement.
And we ask you to appropriate $1,900 for the purpose.
No demand is so urgently increasing as that for training in
Electrical Engineering. We need a small sum for enlarging our
facilities. We ask $1,000 for each of two years.
We need also $500 a year for increasing the equipment of the




JANUARY MEETING, 1893.


123


Botanical Laboratory, and $1,000 a year for additions to the equipment of the Zoological Laboratory.
VIII. Completion of the Engineering Building.  The last
legislature gave us $10,000 with which to alter and enlarge the
building then used by the Dental College, so that it might accommodate our engineering students.  We then thought that sum
would suffice. But in the class which entered just after the adjournment of the legislature the number of students of engineering and
particularly those of mechanical and electrical engineering, was
increased beyond all precedent. It was clear to us that a still
larger number would enter this year, and it has so happened. We
have been compelled to make the building larger, and even now it
is not large enough. But we have incurred an additional expense
of $10,000. The building is very simple and plain and is absolutely
indispensable. We trnst that you can reimburse us for the $10,000
expended. We aim to be very scrupulous in not exceeding appropriations and have as a rule arrested construction where funds were
expended. But we could not have assembled our increased engineering classes this year, if this building had not been completed
with its present dimensions.
IX. The enlargement of the Anatomical Laboratory. The
building used by the students of both Medical schools and by those
of the Dental school in the study of Practical Anatomy is outgrown.
It is both inconvenient and unhealthy for so many persons to be
crowded together in such work. Besides, the value of the instruction is seriously impaired. We ask for the sum of $5,000 to erect an
addition.
X. Building for Administration Rooms and Recitation Rooms.
The rooms occupied by the President, the Dean and the Registrar
of the Literary Faculty, the Steward and the Treasurer are altogether inadequate to the present needs. The increasing business of
the administration offices has outgrown them. The number of
recitation rooms is insufficient. The Main Building, known as
University Hall, in which most of them are found, was built when
the number of literary students was about 500. Now the number
exceeds 1,400. The rooms are so crowded and so continuously
occupied that it is impossible to have suitable ventilation. By the
construction of a new building the hardship, now imposed on women
student of an excessive amount of climbing stairs, can be to some
extent relieved. A building large enough to meet our needs,
whether it be attached to the Main Building or constructed separately, will we estimate, cost $75,000.




121


JANUARY MEETING, 1893.


XI. Electric Light Plant for Hospitals. We are now lighting
the Hospitals with electric light, since for hospitals it is far preferable to gas light, which vitiates the air. We can make our electric
light by the use of the exhaust steam of the boilers employed for
heating the buildings at a trifling cost, after the plant is procured.
This would be so great a saving that we deem it our duty to ask for
$5,000 for purchasing the plant.
The requests we therefore present to you are as follows:
1893.    1894.
General Repairs, ___ — ____ --- —---— _  $ 5,000  $ 5,000
Dental College,__ ___ --- —------------  12,000  12,000
Homceopathic College and Hospital, — ____ — __  10,000  10,000
University Hospital,  ___-___ --- —- -_ —  12,000  12,000
Contingent Expenses, -  __ --- —---— __ -- 12,5^0  12,500
Books for Libraries,  __ __ --- —-----  15,000   15,000
Salaries of Teachers, -. - __  __ --- —---   15,000  15,000
Freight on Rogers Collection,  -----------  1,400
Equipment for Astronomical Observatory, _-_  1,900
Equipment in Electrical Engineering, -__.__  1,000  1,000
Equipment for Botanical Laboratory, — _. __-   500  500
Equipment for Zoological Laboratory,-_ ___ ___  1,000  1,000
Reimbursement on Engineering Building, ___-  10,000
Addition to Anatomical Laboratory, -_ --- —--  2,500  2,500
Administration and Recitation Building, __ ---_ 37,500  37,500
Electric Light Plant at Hospital,__- ___ --- —   5,000
$142,300  $124,000
XII. We beg you, also, to consider whether you may not
wisely increase the tax of one-twentieth of a mill, which was appropriated to the support of the University by the Act of 1873, to onetenth of a mill. Wisconsin now appropriates one-fifth of a mill,
Colorado one-eighth of a mill, and California one mill, to their
Universities. To enable us to plan wisely for administration, it is
in the highest degree desirable that we should know in advance
that a certain amount essential to important work can be relied
on. It has sometimes happened that under specific direction of the
legislature the Regents have established certain courses which
have had to be abandoned in consequence of subsequent failure to
provide for the continuation of them. This has resulted in waste
and in disappointment to students. The University has reached a
critical stage in its history, where larger income from some source
must be furnished, or the institution must check its growth, abandon some of its work, and lose its proud pre-eminence among
American universities. We cannot think that the State desires it
to enter upon a retrograde course. If the increase proposed were




JANUAR Y MEETING, 1893.


125


made for 1894, some of the requests above made for that year could
be omitted.
XIII. The completion of the Gymnasium.  Though we have
not asked for assistance in completing the Gymnasium now in process of erection on our grounds, it is perhaps our duty to our benefactors and to the University to make the following frank statement
to you and invoke for it your sympathetic attention.
It is well known to you that the late Joshua W. Waterman
offered the University the sum of $20,000 to aid in the erection of a
Gymnasium, provided the friends of the University would raise an
equal sum. The sum of $21,621 has been raised and paid into our
Treasury by the Alumni and other friends of the University, and
the $20,000 promised by Mr. Waterman has been received from his
estate. When we came to make a careful study of college gymnasiuns, it was found that a builling much larger than could be
erected for the sum at our disposal would be required to accommodate our great number of students. It seemed to us unwise to begin
a building too small for our purpose, so we adopted a plan for a
larger one, hoping we might receive voluntary gifts enough to
enable us to complete it. The business depression, which has prevailed in the region west of the Mississippi, where we were looking
for large donations, has thus far disappointed this hope. Meantime
we have, with the money on hand, erected the walls and put on the
roof of the main building. Judging by the bids we received, we
estimate that $20,000 will-be needed to complete the main building,
which is intended primarily for the young men. If a wing is added
for the young women, (of which now we have about 550) who need
the privileges of a gymnasium quite as much as the young men,
$20,000 more will be required. As more than $40,000 have been
given by the citizens of this and other states, we ask you to consider whether the State will be willing to give as much more in
order to furnish facilities so essential to the health of the students,
or at any rate half as much more in order to complete the main
building.
We leave these statements and suggestions in your hands. We
speak only as the agents of the State, who are charged with the
duty of explaining what in our opinion is essential to the efficiency
of the University, which belongs to the State. We leave it to you




126            JANUARY MEETING, 1893.
to judge how far the condition of the State will enable you to go in
supplying its present needs.
HERMANN KIEFER,
CHARLES R. WHITMAN,
ROGER W. BUTTERFIELD,
CHARLES HEBARD,
WILLIAM J. COCKER,
PETER N. COOK,
HENRY HOWARD,
LEVI L. BARBOUR.
University of Michigan,
January 16, 1893.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Feb. 15th.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




FEBRUARY MEETING.
1893.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,  }
ANN ARBOR, Feb. 15, 1893.
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock, A. M.
Present-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook, and
Barbour.
Absent —Regents Butterfield, Hebard, and Howard.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the minutes of the previous meetings were approved as printed.
The following resignations were presented, and on
motion of Regent Whitman, were accepted: Carl W.
Belser, Ph. D., Assistant Professor of Oriental Languages;
Arthur G. Hall, B. S., Instructor in Mathematics; Moritz
Levi, A. B., Instructor in French.
The Executive Committee submitted the following
report:
ANN ARBOR, February 15,1893.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
The Executive Committee beg leave to make the following
report: Mr. A. G. Hall, Instructor in Mathematics, and Mr. M.
Levi, Instructor in French, having tendered their resignation to
take effect February 17, the Committee have appointed Mr. Pomeroy Ladue, B. S., Instructor in Mathematics, and Mr. Eugene
Leser, Ph. D., Instructor in French for the second semester, at the
rate of $900 a year.
JAMES B. ANGELL,
CHAS. R. WHITMAN,
W. J. COCKER.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the action of the Executive Committee was approved by the following vote:




128


FEBR UAR Y MEETING, 1893.


Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook, and Barbour.
Nays-None.
The Board then took a recess until 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON     SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock, P. HI.
Dr. Taft and Dr. Dorrance appeared before the Board
and discussed matters relating to the Dental Department.
Regent Kiefer presented tie following request of the
Faculty of the Honoeopathic Medical College:
AN'N ARBOR, June 21, 1892.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-The Faculty of the Homoeopathic College request
permission to invite Dr. O. R. Long, of Ionia, Mich., to repeat the
course of lectures upon Mental Diseases, delivered by him during
the last college year, and under the same conditions, viz., without
salary.
Respectfully submitted,
D. A. MACLACHLAN, Secretary.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the permission asked for
in the foregoing communication was granted by the full
vote of the Board.
Regent Kiefer moved that the sum of $243 be appropriated for the purpose of employing additional help
required in the Chemical Laboratory in changing the
classes from one course to another at the beginning of the
second semester and at the beginning of the last three
months of the college year; and in putting up substances
for analysis termed " unknowns," the money to be divided
as follows: For the year 1892-3, $159; for the year 1893-4,
$42; and for the year 1894-5, $42.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook and Barbour.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman moved that George F. Key be employed during the second semester to give instruction in




FEBR UARY MEETING, 1893.


129


Descriptive Geometry, 2 hours per day, 4 days in the
week, at $125 for the semester.
The motion was carried, as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook, and Barbour.
Nays-None.
Instructor Fred Morley asked for and obtained leave
of absence from the middle of April to the end of the
college year. Salary to lapse during his absence.
Regent Whitman moved that the sum of $155 be
appropriated for'the purchase of apparatus for use in the
Psychological Laboratory.
The motion was carried, as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook, and Barbour.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the President was
authorized to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of
Professor CT. W. Belser.
On motion of Regent Cook, the Board decided to
locate the contemplated Administration and Recitation
Building in front of the main building, and attached
thereto.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Wednesday, March
15th.
JAMES H. WADE, Secretary.




MARCH MEETING.
1893.
UNIVERSITY OF MICIIIGAN, 
ANN ABnoR, March 15, 1893. 
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock A. I.
Present-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Eoward, and Barbour.
Absent —Regents Butt-erfield and Hebard,
On motion of Regent Barbour, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the degree of M. D. was
conferred uponl Harry L. Hall, ill accorda.nce wvith the recolnmendaltion lo thle Facultv of the Departmente of Medicine 1-nd Su1rgery.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, an app:ropriation of $200
was made for the purchase of instruments for use in University Hospital, and $200 for the purchase of appliances
il the Departiment of Medicine and Surgery, by the tollowing vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cook, Howard and Barbour.
Nays —None.
On motion of IRegent Kiefer, $40 w as appropriated for
the puirchase of an induction coil, for the use of the Professor of Nervous Diseases, as follows.
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cook, Howard and Barbour.
Nays-None.
The President presented the request of Professor
Demnion for an assistant in the department of English
for this semester, to assist in reading and correcting essays,
compensation to be 8100.




132


MARCH MEETING, 1893.


On motion of Regent Whitman,the Executive Committee were authorized to employ such an assistant by the
followinig vote.
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman. Cook, Howard and Barbour.
Nays-None.
On motion, the Board took a recess until 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board re-assembled at 2 o'clock P. M.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That Dr. V. C. Vaughan receive the sum of $300 per
year as compensation for services as Dean of the Department of
Medicine and Surgery.
The motion of Regent Cocker was carried by tile following vote:
Ayes-Regent Kiefer, Whitman, Cook, Howard and Barbour.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Howard, the publication of the
University Record was continued for another year.
The question of allowing the Junior class to give their
annual hop in the Gymnasium  building, was referred to
Regent Whitman, President Angell, Secretary Wade arid
Mr. Reeve, with power.
Dr. J. C. Nottingham appeared before the Board and
discussed matters relating to tle Homoeopathic Medical
College.
On motion, the Board adjourned to April 19, 1893.
JAMES H. WADE, Secretary.




APRIL MEETING.
1893.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, April 19, 1893. 
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock A. M.
There being no quorum   present, no business was
transacted.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




MAY MEETING.
1893.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,  I
ANN ARBOR, May 19, 1893.
The Board assembled in the room of the President
at 10 o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, and Howard.
Absent-Regents Hebard and Cook.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
Regent Kiefer stated that the Homoeopathic Faculty
and members of the profession through the State were in
waiting, and desired to be heard on charges which they
wished to prefer against Dr. H. L. Obetz. He moved that
each side be allowed one hour's time in which to present
its case to the Board. It was so ordered. Dr. Charles
Gatchell for himself, Dr. J. C. Wood, and Dr. D. A. MacLachlan of the Homoeopathic Faculty, then presented
formal charges against Dr. H. L. Obetz, Dean of the Homoeopathic Faculty, and asked the Board to call for his
resignation. The charges and specifications were supported by Dr. J. C. Nottingham, of Bay City; Dr. O. Le.
seur and Dr. Harold Wilson, of Detroit; Dr. S. G. Milner, of Grand Rapids; and Dr. J. M. Lee, of Rochester,
New York.
Dr. H. L. Obetz then addressed the Board in his own
defense, supported by Dr. Covey, of Grand Ledge; Dr.




136


1MAY MEETING, 1893.


Harvey Gilbert and Dr. N. R. Gilbert, of Bay City; Dr.
Patterson, of Northfield; and Dr. Rudy, of Detroit.
The time allowed for the discussion of the case having
expired, the Board took a recess until 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock P. M., Regent
Cook being present.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the matters relating
to the Homoeopathic Medical College, which were discussed
at the morning session, were referred to the Medical Committee of the Board.
The President stated that he would place in the
hands of appropriate committees of the Board sundry
communications which had been placed in his hands.
Mr. H. F. Bronson, of Detroit, presented, through Regent Barbour, two volumes for the Library, which were
received, and the thanks of the Board returned for the
same.
Regent Butterfield moved that the degree of M. D. be
conferred upon Rosemond Luella Hathaway, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the
Department of Medicine and Surgery. Carried.
On motion of Regent Whitman it was voted that the
Grand Army be allowed the use of University Hall on
the evening of Decoration Day, May 30th.
At the request of a large number of students, and on
the recommendation of the Library Committee, Regent
Butterfield moved that the General Library be opened at
8:15 in the morning instead of 9 o'clock as heretofore, at
an additional expense not exceeding $150 annually.
The motion was carried as follows:




MAY MEETING, 1893.


137


Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker,
Cook, and Howard.
Nays-None.
A communication was received by the President from
Dr. J. B. Welch, of Hudson, Michigan, stating that he had
a fine collection of archaeological specimens, collected
almost entirely in Michigan, which he desired to dispose
of, as on account of ill-health he was obliged to leave
Michigan, at least for a time. He asks permission to place
the collection in the University museum, giving the
Board the option to purchase it before selling to anyone
else, but would expect the University to become responsible for its safety while in its possession.
On motion of Regent Cook, it was voted that permission be given Dr. Welch to place his collection in the
museum, and that the Board would give it the same
watchful care that was given to the University's own collections, but beyond that the Board could not assume any
responsibility.
Professor J. B. Davis, who has charge of the field work
of the class in civil engineering, asked the Board to appoint Mr. Oscar Roberts as his assistant in camp at a total
cost to the University of $80.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the request was
granted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker,
Cook, and Howard.
Nays-None.
Professors V. M. Spalding and A. C. McLaughlin
asked for and obtained leave of absence for one year to go
abroad, their salaries to continue, they furnishing the
necessary teaching force to carry their work during their
absence.
On motion of Regent Whitman, Mr. F. C. Newcombe,
B. S., was appointed Acting Assistant Professor of Botany
for one year, salary to be paid by Professor Spalding.




138


MA Y MEETING, 1893.


The resignation of Dr. John J. Abel, Professor of
Materia Medica and Therapeutics in the Department of
Medicine and Surgery was received and accepted.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, an appropriation of $163
was made for the purchase of apparatus for use in the
Department of General Chemistry by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker,
Cook, and Howard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Secretary was requested to communicate with several architects, asking
them to submit sketch plans of the several buildings which
the Board desire to build the coming season, and to submit such sketches to the June meeting of the Board, without expense to the University, and to state the commission
they will charge for full plans and specifications in case
they are awarded the preparation of them for any building.
On motion, the Board took a recess until 7 o'clock, P. M.
EVENING SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 7 o'clock, P. M.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the money set apart
for the purchase of books was divided among the various
Libraries as follows:
General Library ---        -----     -   — $11,750
Medical Library-   -   -   ------     --       1,500
Law Library -.-   —.-..     ----              1,500
Dental Library. ---   ------    - ----    -     250
Regent Butterfield read a petition from the senior
class in the Department of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, asking permission to hold the senior reception this
year in the gymnasium building.
The matter was referred to the Auditing Board.
Regent Whitman moved that the sum of $400 be




MA Y MEETING, 1893.


139


appropriated for the purpose of sodding, seeding, and
grading on the Hospital grounds. The motion was carried
as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker,
Cook, and Howard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Cook, the Steward was authorized to exclude ball playing on the campus should he find
it necessary in order to protect the buildings from damage.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Secretary was instructed to advertise for tenders to complete the present
gymnasium building, and also to receive bids for the
steam heating and the plumbing separately.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the question of enlarging the anatomical building was laid on the table
until the next meeting, and Dr. W. A. Campbell was
requested to ascertain the cost of equipment, and report.
On motion, the Board adjourned to June 26th.
JAMES H, WADE,
Secretary.




SPECIAL MEETING.
JUNE 2, 1893.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,  |
ANN ARBOR, June 2, 1893.)
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Whitman, Butterfield, Barbour,
Cocker, Cook, and Howard.
Absent-Regents Kiefer and Hebard.
On motion of Regent Barbour the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
The morning hour was used by the Board in discussing the finances of the University. They then took a
recess to 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
Architects Spier, Scott, and Arnold, of Detroit, appeared before the Board and presented and explained
their sketches of plans for the administration and recitation buildings, as requested by the Board at a previous
meeting. The afternoon was spent in the consideration
of the plans, and the Board adjourned to 7 o'clock P. M.
EVENING SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 7 o'clock P. iM., and took up
the consideration of bids for finishing the gymnasium.




142


JUNl    MEETING, 1893.


The bids were as follows: J. L. Gearing & Sons, of Detroit, for the entire work, $23,748; Hutzel & Co., of Ann
Arbor, for the heating and plumbing, $10,630; Shaw,
Kendall & Co., of Toledo, for the heating and plumbing,
$10,987; A. Harvey & Sons, for heating only, $7,864. The
Board decided not to let the work on the foregoing bids
and requested the Secretary to ascertain what Wallace
& Morris, builders, of Detroit, would do the work for, and
report to the next meeting of the Board.
Regent Butterfield moved that the Committee on
Buildings and Grounds be authorized to employ E. W.
Arnold, architect, to prepare plans and specifications for
an addition to the anatomical building, and to invite bids
and proceed with the work at a cost not exceeding $5,000.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, Cook,
and Howard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the sketch plans
submitted by the architects for the proposed new buildings, not being entirely satisfactory, were referred back
to them with the suggestion that if they desired to make
some changes in the interior arrangements the Board
would be pleased to re-examine them at their next meeting.
Regent Barbour moved that $250 be appropriated
for the purpose of enabling Professor Reighard to join the
State Fish Commission in the study of the Fauna and
Flora of the waters of the lakes and rivers of Michigan,
and that he be permitted to take the necessary books and
apparatus belonging to the University, on the condition
that the Fish Commission guarantee the safe return of all
articles taken, and make good all damage done to the
same. Also that the Steward be authorized to furnish the
alcohol necessary for the preservation of the specimens
collected; these specimens to become the property of the
University. The vote relsuted as follows:




JUNE MEETING, 1893.                143
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, Cook,
and Howard.
Nays-None.
On motion the Board adjourned to Monday, June 26.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




JUNE MEETING.
1893.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, June 26, 1893.S
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
2 o'clock P. M.
Present-Regents Kiefer, Whit man, Hebard, Barbour,
Cocker, and Cook.
Absent-Regents Butterfield and Howard.
The President stated that he would place in the hands
of the Committees of the Board sundry papers which had
reached him.
Professor Spalding addressed the Board on the needs
of the Botanical Laboratory.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Librarian Davis and
Professors Steere and Lombard were requested to examine
the books and apparatus to be taken by Professor Reighard
before these articles leave the University, and again on
their return, in order that any damage they may sustain
may be properly estimated and reported to the Board for
adjustment.
Regent'Whitman presented the following communication from the Faculty of the Department of Law:
To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
The Law Faculty recommend that the degree of Master of Laws
be conferred on the following named persons, they having completed the required course of study:
John Jarvis Aldrich, LL. B.,  George Dare Broomell, Jr.,
Robert Anderson, LL. B.,     Chicago College of Law.




146


JUNE MEETING, 1s93.


Lee Nathan Brown, LL. B.,
John Quincy Adams Crosby, LL. B.,
John William Dwyer, LL. B.,
George Agler Eberly, LL. B.,
Elijah Farr, LL. B.,
Morris Bushnell Gifford, LL., B.,
University of Louisville.
Charles Harshman, LL. B.,
Ernest Fenwick Johnstone, LL. B.,


Maris T. Kendig, LL. B.,
John Francis Kennedy, LL. B.,
Nelson Mason, LL. B.,
Howard University.
Kinnosuke Sugita,
Robert Foster Thompson, LL. B.,
John Henry Walker, LL. B.,
Frank Maury Wells, LL. B.


And that the degree of Bachelor of Laws be conferred on the
following named persons, they having completed the required course
of study:


William Tell Aggeler,
Eva Jane Akers,
Gerrit Henry Albers, A. B.,
Hope College.
Elton Clyde Armitage,
Albert Mahlon Ashley,
Lloyd L. Axford,
Arthur Henry Babcock,
Joseph Edward Baird,
Louis Leroy Baker,
Frank Elmer Baldwin,
Sylvester William Barker,
Fred Rochou Barney, B. S.,
Olivet College.
Marvin Elmer Barnhart,
Alpha Charles Barras,
William Artemas Bateman,
Lafayette Hosmer Bates,
Fred Wesley Beal,
Edwin Justus Bean,
William Melville Beggs,
Willis Clayton Belknap, A. B.,
Dartmouth College.
Ernest Paul Bennett,
Mary Estella Benson,
Henry Kropp Bente, B. S.,
Otterville College.
Ulysses Fulton Bickley,
Joseph Anthony Bierd,
William John Bierd,
Harley Dehart Billings,
Ernest Fawcett Binford,
Edwin Henry Bither,
Isidor Darius Blair,
Clayton Becker Blakey,
Albert Newton Blessing,
Edward Joseph Bodwell,
James Anthony Bordeaux,
Frank Leslie Bowen,


Nicholas Milton Bradley,
William Frederick Brickman,
Joseph Clark Brittain,
Willis Melvin Brooks,
Bern Franklin Brough,
Alfred Holmes Brous,
Darius Alvin Brown,
Otto James Bruce,
Frank Robert Buchanan,
William John Bulow,
Eugene Marvin Bumphrey,
Harrison Van Del Calkins,
Frederick Grove Campbell,
Gordon Rennie Campbell,
Robert Campbell,
Robert Lachlin Campbell,
Lyman Judy Carlock, A. B.,
Eureka College.
Oliver Howard Carson, A. B.,
De Pauw University.
Edwin Elbert Chandler, A. B.,
William Jewell College.
John Whedon Clark,
Thomas Milo Clough,
William John Conroy,
Beverly Brant Crawford,
Frank Crawford, A. B.,
Yale University.
James Jackson Crosby.,
Edwin Sheddan Cunningham, A. B.,
Maryville Coliege.
Terence Bramble Cunningham,
James John Danhof, A. M.,
Hope College.
Hollis Field Daugherty,
Miner Levant Davis,
Charles Edward Dedrick,
Harry Thomas Dedrick,
William Henry Dellenback, B. L.,




JUNE MEETING, 1893.


147


Archie Walker Deming,
Grant Alder Dentler,
Benjamin De Vries,
Charles Melvin Dial,
John Leander Duffy, A. B.,
Jesse J. Duncan,
Zeph Gershom Dunn,.
George Edwin Snyder Eckert,
Griffith Ogden Ellis,
James Green Estep,
William Henry Evans,
Alonzo Jay Falknor,
Philip Vanderbyl Fennelly,
George Edward Ferguson,
George Marion Fields,
William Hosea Fields,
Ernest Albert Fink, A. B.,
Kansas Normal College.
John Finney,
Willard Clinton Fitzer, B. S.,
Purdue University.
Porter William Fleming,
Ernest Elwood Ford,
Emory Duffield Frazer,
Charles Knox Friedman,
Henry Malbie Gardner,
Lawrence Luroy George,
John Andrew Gerlash, B. S.,
Tarkio College.
Andrew Elsworth Gibson,
Fred Edward Glick,
James William Good, B. S.,
Coe College.
William Gordon,
Eben Bailey Gower,
Charles Henry Graves,
John Sherman Greer, A. B.,
Maryville College.
Franklin Jay Griffen,
Thomas Patrick Griffin,
William Edgar Griffin, Ph. B.,
Alexander Joseph Groesbeck,
Frank Clinton Groninger, A. M.,
Indiana University.
Delo Corydon Grover, Ph. B.,
Oberlin College.
Lyman Gaston Grundy,
Jostph Coat Hadley, A. B.,
Wilmington College.
Edgar Moore Hall,
William Robert Hall,
Lloyd Frederick Harms,


Gilbert Newton Harrison,
Edwin Bates Harts, B. S.,
College of New Jersey.
Metcalf Bradley Hatch, Jr., B. L.,
Cornell University.
Tennie Ethan Haynes,
Hermann Leopold Hegner,
Horace P. Henderson,
James Stanhope Henton,
Omar Eugene Herminghausen.
Ambrose Cooper Hindman,
Arthur K. Hitchcock,
Edward Hollingshead,
William Henry Houren,
Robert Albert Howard,
Charles Arthur Howell, B. S. (M. E.),
Charles Morgan Howell,
William Howell, B. S.,
Franklin College.
John Bernard Hoy,
Harvey Hiram Humphrey,
John Sapington Hunter,
Paul Hurd,
John Hough James, A. B.,
Urbana University.
Horace Moss Jarrett,
Henry Whiting Jarvis, A. B.,
Bowdoin College.
Albert Webb Jefferis,
Louis Weston Jefferson,
Thomas John,
Edwin Levi Johnson,
Milton Johnson, B. S., C. E.,
Glasgow College.
John Edward Johntz,
Datus Rue Jones, B. S.,
Ada University.
Francis Goewey Jones,
Louis Cornelius Jones,
Walter Edgar Keeler,
Addison A. Keiser,'
Samuel Andrew King,
George S. Kistler,
Frank Henry Kleekamp,
Otto Gustave Valentine Knecht,
Jesse Jasper Knight,
John Henry Koenig,
Axel Hjalmar Kohler,
George Edward Kollen,
Gelmer Kuiper, A. M.,
Hope College.
J. Marshall Lamer,




148


JUNE MEETING, 1893.


Thomas Arthur Lane,
Sidney Benton Laune, B. S.,
Ohio Normal University.
John Alvin Lee,
Benjamin Franklin Lester, A. B.,
Lincoln University.
Richard Levey Lewis,
John Hillis Liggett, B. S.,
University of Iowa.
Harry Curtis Lillie,
Judson Reuben Linthicum,
Isaac Bernard Lipson,
Henry Guy Livingston,
James Morton Lockhart,
David Lockton,
Harvey Thompson Lovett,
Ira Benjamin Lucas,
Henry Wadsworth Lung,
Charles George Macklin,
Anton Maresh,
Ernest Whitworth Marland,
Alfred Harrison Martin, A. B.,
Geneva College.
Ellsworth Thomas Martin, B. S.,
Kansas State Agricultural College.
Clinton Perham McAllaster,
Jares McCardell,
James Walter McCaughey, A. B.,
University of the Pacific.
Andrew Phelps McCormick, A. B.,
Hanover College.
Franklin Pauling McCormick,
Thomas Alfred McCoy,
Hugh Boyd McCullough,
Dominic William McDonald,
Michael Charles McEnerny,
James Livingston McIntosh,
Archie McIntyre,
Stephen Eugene McMahon,
Charnock Boyd McNay,
William Elisha McReynolds,
Samuel McRoberts, A. B.,
Baker University.
Francis Purvis Midlam,
William Lee Miller,
Leon Keck Montgomery,
Warren Stone Morey,
Norman Blake Morrell,
William Oliver Morrow,
William Edward Mullen,
John Wales Murdoch,
George Willis Nattinger, A. B.,
Griswold College.


George Robert Neil,
James Brannan Nelson,
Richard Voorhees Newton,
Francis Alvord Noble, B. S.,
Washington University.
Willard Devalson Norton,
Stephen A. Nowlin,
Edward Sidney Osborn,
Mack Hull Osborn,
George Cole Otto,
Lewis Henry Paddock, A. B.,
Trinity College.
Leo Joseph Palda, Jr.,
Jonathan Palmer, Jr.,
John Garrett Park,
George Jacobs Parker, A. B.,
College of New Jersey.
Charles Francis Parsons,
Frederick Pynsent Partridge, A. B.,
James Estelle Patrick,
Marion George Paul,
John Albert Percy, Jr.,
Jesse Snyder Phillips,
Claude Herbert Porter,
Hiram Powers,
George Griffin Prentis, B. L.,
Richard Francis Purcell,
Edwin Thomas Reed,
Herbert Henry Reed,
Henry Allen Reese, B. L.,
University of Nebraska.
William Albert Reeves,
D. Joseph Renihan,
John Young Rice,
George Frank Rich,
Charles Prentice Richardson,
David Oliver Rideout, Jr.,
Frank J. Riggs,
Lewis Rinaker, B. S.,
Blackburn University.
George Casebere Rings,
Simon B. Roe,
Charles Frederick Roehrig,
John Aloise Rooney, A.B.,
St. Francis Xaviers College.
A. Dan Rose,
Marvin B. Rosenberry,
Champ Ross, B S., A. B.,
National Normal University.
John Southworth Rountree,
Percy Rowe,
Harvey Thomas Ruch,
Fritz Rudin,




JUNE MEETING, 1893.


149


Clement Lucian Russell,
Mark Sands,
Benjamin Franklin Scanlon,
Eugene Gardiner Schoonover,
George Gifford Scott, B. S.,
National Normal University.
Charles William Scrutchin,
Samuel Howe Seccombe, A. B.,
Amherst College.
Joseph Henry Servatius,
Oscar Ferdinand Sessinghaus,
Alfred Arthur Sessions,
Charles H. Shamel, M. S,
University of Illinois.
John W. Sheehan,
Richard Asbury Shipp,
Gideon Mosher Sipe, A. B.,
Ohio Wesleyan University.
Thomas Whitten Slick,
William Nicholas Smelser,
Frank Carpenter Smith, A. B.,
Hinckley Smith, A. B.,
Miami University.
Elmer Snearly,
Reuel Somerville,
Timon J. Spangler,
Jesse De Witt Spitzer,
Edward Frederick Spurney,
Wade Stanton Stanfeld,
John Llncoln Stetler,
Charles Beikley Stewart,
George Cope Stewart, B. S.,
Geneva College.
Warren Sanford Stone,
Samuel L. Stricler,
William Cyrus Swan,
Ulysses Simpson Sykes,
James William Tamplin,
Clifford Thaxton,
Arthur George Thompson,
George Washington Thompson, B. S.,
Northern Indiana University.
Charles Cassius Thorington,
Howard A. Thornton,
Byron Clement Thorpe,
William Tichenor,


John Applegate Titsworth,
William Lavaun Tracy,
Francis Nathaniel Trevor,
Charles Ott TrimbLe,
Preston Marion Troy,
George A. True,
Andrew Brink Tucker,
Harry Otis Tunison,
George William Tupper,
Albert Given Turnipseed, B. S.,
Natianal Normal University.
John Joseph Tweddle,
David Ryan Twomey,
Archie Hoagland Upton,
Orlie Babbitt Van Horn,
Harry Holbrook Van Sellar,
Fred Eaton Van Tassel,
Joseph Henry Van Tassel,
Earl Jewell Vickery,
Berton Ellsworth Vickrey,
Campbell Marion Voorhees,
William Bogardus Voorheis,
Richard Thomas Waddle,
Bertrand Alfred Walker, A. B.,
Harvard University.
Fred William Walker,
Charles Clinton Walsh,
Frederick William Walter,
Charles Ernest Walters, Ph. B.,
Cornell College.
William Thomas Webb,
Edwin Forrest Weil,
Clement William Wells.
James J. Welsh, A. B.,
Lombard University.
Charles Thomas Wetherby,
Sherman Tecumseh Wiggins,
Edwin Augustine Wilcox, A. B.,
University of the Pacific.
Edward Holland Williams,
Harry Linn Williams,
Robert Jones Willis,
William Gilbert Wilson,
Paul Woodworth,
Verne Adelbert Wright,
James Edward Young.


The following named persons cannot be present to receive
their degrees because of serious illness in their families:
Stephen Eugene McMahon,        Edward Holland Williams.
John Southworth Rountree,
Respectfully,
June 26, 1893.                  J. C. KNOWLTON, Dean.
2




150


JUNE MEETING, 1893.


On motion of Regent Whitman, the degrees of Master
of Laws, and Bachelor of Laws, were conferred upon the
persons named in the foregoing communication in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Law, and the three persons specially named
were excused from attendance on Commencement Day.
Regent Whitman presented the following communication from the Faculty of the Department of Literature,
Science, and the Arts:
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
Gentlemen. —I have the honor to report to your Honorable
Body, that the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, recommend to you the following persons for the degrees indicated:
BACHELOR OF LETTERS.


Josephine Allen,
Loowina Hattie Amberg,
Lucy Sadie Andrews,
Anna May Bailey,
Verdie Jane Baker,
Mary Ella Carter,
William Sylvester Cheever,
Mary Clara Colver,
Mabel Crabbe,
Frank Henry Decke,
Charles Arza Denison,
Elspa Millicent Dopp,
Hattie Eddy,
Mary Emily Fish,
Walter John Hammill,


Clarence Wright Heath,
Lewis Hill,
Arthur Harold Holmes,
Inez M. Ladd,
Maud Elizabeth Merritt,
Edith May Orr,
Horton Casparis Ryan,
Bertha Barbara Sciurus,
Richard Asbury Shipp,
Georgia Smeallie,
Sherman Clark Spitzer,
Louis A. Strauss,
Edward Hamilton Vail,
Margaret Evelyn Waples.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN BIOLOGY).


William Aulls Campbell, M. D.,
Herbert Spencer Jennings,
Anna Mae Lutz, M. S.,
Purdue University.
Joseph Leggett Miller,


William Harvey Rush,
Fannie Lucinda Stearns,
Mary Mathews Sturges,
William Henry Wilson.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN CHEMISTRY).


Duncan Anderson, Jr.,
Henry Henderson Denham,
Bernhard Conrad Hesse, Ph. C.,


Mary Frances Leach,
Samuel Osborn.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING).
Charles Gillman Atk ins,       Henry George Field,
Harry Oliver Channon,          Will John Fisher,
John Denison Evarts Duncan,   Alfred William Hookway,




JUNE MEETING, 1893.


151


Carroll Dunham Jones,
Fred Lockwood Keeler,
Alfred Cookman Marshall,
George Henry Miller,


Howard Monroe Raymond,
Hugh Rodipan,
Neil Hooker Williams.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN MINING ENGINEERING).


Leon Murdock Groesbeck,


William Willard Taylor.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING).


John Yerkes Blackwood,
Albert Loring Clark,
William Henry Dorrance, Jr.,
Philip Stimson Gardiner,
Herbert Jay Goulding,
Leonard Frederick William Hildner,
Theodore Henry Hinchman, A. B.,


Joseph Sabine Hurbert Holmes,
Hiram Howden,
Melburn Walter Hull,
Edward Snover Reid,
Otto Louis Edgar Weber,
Frank Arner Windes.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN CIVIL ENGINEERING).
Hadley Baldwin,                 Clarence William Hubbell,
Will Hazen Boughton,            Valentine Seaman Ives,
William John Currer,            Joseph Jenry Morsman,
Jasper Case Davis,              Lewellyn Sherrill Pomeroy,
Grant Henry Dunning,            Minott Eugene Porter,
George Irving Gavett,           Edwin John Rosencrans,
Frank Rust Gilchrist,           Clarence George Wrentmore.
BACIIELOR OF SCIENCE.
Emma Judith Broomell, B. S.,    Joseph Francis Meriill,
Swarthmore College.          William Smith Miller,
Lola Helen Conrad,              Katharine Bradley Ross,
Henry LeRoy Crummer,            Frank Hubbard Smith,
Edward Robert Cunningham, Ph. B., Brown Fred Swift,


Albion College.
Franz Christian Kuhn,
Edward Gottlieb Maul,
Hugh Farber McGaughey,


George Thomas Towl,
Ellis David Walker,
Carrie May Watson.


BACIELOR OF PHILOSOPHY.


Bertha Montague Alger,
Earl D. Babst,
Claribel Ruth Barnett,
William Frederick Baur,
Fern Amelia Beebe,
Ira Charles Belden,
John Jerome Brinckerhoff,
Christine Frederica Bronson,
May Carpenter,
Martha Holway Chadbourne,
Alice Doris Cramer,
Edward Page Cummings,
Paul Marley Day,
Kate Elizabeth Dopp,


Charles Drake,
Nellie Phoebe Dunham,
George Burlingame Dygert,
Jennie Eddy,
Henry Arthur Friedman,
Isaac Kahn Friedman,
Minnie Frost,
Vladimir August Geringer,
Henry Newell Goddard,
Willard Wilmer Griffin,
Meyer L. Heidingsfeld,
Lucy Johnson,
John Black Johnston,
Thomas Michael Kilbride,




152


JUNE MEETING, 1893.


Frank Waterman Lightner,
Jacob William Loeb,
Eva Idel Mains,
David Porter Mayhew,
William Ienry McLauchlan,
Edith Irene Moser,
Julius Moses,
Marietta Parker,
Earle Clifford Peters,
Florence Harriett Pope,
Mary Fairman Power,
Dan Lace Quirk, Jr.,


Harrison McAllester Randall,
Hedley Vicars Richardson,
George Whiting Sanborn,
Juliette Sessions,
John Benjamin Shanks,
Jennie Belle Sherzer,
Charles William Stratton,
Edward Everett Taylor,
Anna Marie Van Housen,
Marion Ballantyne White,
Edwin Conklin Wilkinson,
Bertha Wolf.


BACHELOR OF ARTS.


Gerrit Henry Albers, A. B.,
Hope College.
Charles Brunson Allen,
Katharine Sprague Alvord,
Ruth Gertrude Bagley,
Warren Dwight Baker,
Blanche Beatrice Banta,
Henri Newton Barber,
Maude Augusta Barrett,
Edward Scott Beck,
Maude Benjamin Bedell,
James Pyper Bird,
Frederic Fant Briggs,
Nina Edith Bristol,
Benjamin Franklin Buck,
Cameron Clarke Burns,
Holbrook Gilson Cleaveland,
Thomas Louis Comparette,
Arthur Howe Covert,
Harrison Parker Crego,
William Ernest Cullen, Jr.,
Martha Luella Denman,
Ernest J. Dennen,
Walter Dennison,
Tobias Diekhoff.
Genevieve Katharine Duffy,
Augusta Hall Durfee,
Edgar Owen Galloway,
Ransom Gardner George,
Ellen Champney Gibson,
Dirk Gleysteen, A. B.,
Hope College.
Frank Pliny Graves,
Samuel Bates Grubbs,
Clemence Hamilton,
Samuel Smith Harris,
Clemma Belle Hayes,
James Steedman Holland,


Thomas Bond Holland,
Jesse Burroughs Hornung,
Frank William Howe,
Timothy Dwight Hunt, Jr.,
John Stanley Hurd,
George Edward Kollen,
Rufus Gillett Lathrop,
Frank Addison Manny,
Edward Luther Mason,
Archibald McAllister McCracken,
Lennette Gertrude Milliman,
Ida May Muma,
Louise Marie Obenauer,
Jesse Francis Orton,
Maude Parsons,
Melvin Park Porter,
Jane Bliss Potter,
Henry Frederick Lewis Reichle,
Rena Addie Richards,
Josephine Louise Roberts,
Edwin Carl Roedder,
Agnes Hannay Smith,
Lula Bartlit Southmayd,
Charles Wilson Southworth,
Charles Lyle Spain,
Carrie May Sperry,
Elmer Benedict Steiner,
Amy Eliza Tanner,
Mary Braley Thompson,
Arthur Henry Veysey,
Henry Hammersley Walker,
Mary Eloise Walker,
Alfred Holmes White,
Louis Grant Whitehead,
Edward Clark Winans,
Harry Dale Wright,
Maurice Calvin Wright.




JUNE MEETING, 1893.


153


CIVIL ENGINEER.
James Allen Lewis, B. S.
MASTER OF LETTERS.
Blanche Kingsbury Barney, B. L.,  Helen Louise Hatch, B. L.
MASTER OF SCIENCE.
Ida May Clendenin, B. S.,      Abraham Lincoln Knisely, B. S.,
University of Missouri.     Paul Henry Seymour, B. S.
George Oswin Higley, B. S.,
MASTER OF PHILOSOPHY.
Augusta Lee Giddings, B. L.,   John Oren Reed, Ph. B.,
University of TWisconsin.   Eugene Herbert Robertson, Ph. B.,
Toyogiro Kotegawa,             Marilla Caroline Wooster, B. S.,
College of Tokio.              Hillsdale College.
MASTER OF ARTS.
Allison Wix Augir, A. B.,       Ellen Elizabeth Garrigues, A. B.,
Hillsdale College.          Jonathan August Charles Hildner,A. B.
William Warner Bishop, A. B.,   Ellen Clarinda Hinsdale, A. B.,
Mamah Bouton Borthwick, A. B.,    Adelbert College,
Charles Ambrose Bowen, A. B.,   George Frederick Rush, A. B.,
Heber Doust Curtis, A. B.,     Thomas Chalkley Severance, A. B.,
John Patterson Davis, A. B.     Albert Boynton Storms, A. B.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY.
Aldred Scott Warthin, A. M., M. D.
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DE PONT, Registrar.
On motion of Regent Whitman, it was voted that the
degrees indicated in the foregoing communication be conferred  upon the persons named therein, in accordance
with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the following communication from the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
ANN ARBOR, Mich., June 26, 1893.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
Gentlemen.-The following named students have completed the
required work in the Department of Medicine and Surgery, and are
hereby recommended for the degree of M. D.:
William Coleman Armstrong,      Herbert Edwin Baright, B. S.,
Samuel Howard Arthur, D. D. S.,   Cornell University.
James Meade Atkinson,          Fannie Lewis Bishop,




154


JUNE MEETING, 1993.


William Blair,
Morell Deloss Cadwell,
Anna Clapperton,
Luella Sophia Cleveland,
Katharine Richards Collins,
Anna Craig,
Nicholas De Haas,
Frederic Campbell Gillen,
Alice Hamilton,
George Edgar Hoffman, A. M.,
Monmouth College.
William Fremont Hubbard,
Le Roy Bromwell Humphrey,
Aleck Franklin Hutchinson,
Maria P. de Booij Ingram,
John Henry Jones,
Harry James Kennedy, A. B.,
Stella Kirby, B. S.,
Washburn College.
Alvena Mauerhan,
Deville J. Moyer,


Archibald Lawrence Muirhead,
James Perry Odell,
William Wilson Pearson,
Frank Beckham Powers, A. B.,
University of Tennessee.
George Roberts,
Henry Rudoph Roether,
Charles Whitall Root,
Mary Sanderson,
William Oscar Sauermann,
Frederick Glazier Smith,
Sarah Amelia Wilcox Soule,
Charles Newton Sowers,
Cora Lane Stoner,
William Grant Tucker,
James Curtis Twitchell,
Frank Alsworth Waples, B. S.,
William Adam Wehe,
Emma Hammond Wheeler,
Robert Henry Wolcott, B. L., B. S.,
Truman Norton Yeomans.
Very respectfully,
WVf. A. CAMPBELL, M. D.,


Secretary of Faculty, Department of Medicine and Surgery.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, it was ordered that tile
degree of Doctor of Medicine be conferred upon the persons named in the foregoing communication in accordance
with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
Regent Kiefer, Chairman of the Medical Committee,
presented the following communication:


ANN ARBOR, June 24, 1893
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
Gentlemen.-The following named students having fulfilled the
requirements of the Homceopathic Medical College are unanimously
recommended for the degree of Doctor of Medicine:


Roy Leighton Bentley,
Rose Anna Bower,
Ernest C. Brown,
George Frederic Clark, Jr.,
Nora May Dakin,
Mabel Geneva Dixey,
Franklin Henderson Doud,
Elman Parker Felch,


Samuel Harrell,
Clifford Reeder Hervey,
Francis Leslie Hoffman,
Frederic Clifton Laur,
John Alexander Lenfestey,
Linal Rideout Lumby,
Fannie Eliza Nieberg,
Henry Martyn Northam,




JUNE MEETING, 1893.


155


Oscar Luman Ramsdell,
Frank Rich,


Charles Kimball Stewart,
Harvey George Young.
H. L. OBETZ, M. D., Dean.


On motion of Regent Kiefer, the degree of Doctor of
Medicine was conferred upon the persons named in the
foregoing communication, in accordance with the recommehdation of the Faculty of the Homceopathic Medical
College.
Regent Kiefer presented the following communication:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Gentlemen.-The following named persons having pursued and
completed the required course of study and work in the College of
Dental Surgery, are recommended to you by the Faculty of the
College for the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery, viz:


Charles William Adamson,
Alexander Robert Allen,
Arthur William Ball,
Frank Irvin Ball,
Frank Walter Boyer,
Herbert John Burke,
Charles Arthur Church,
William Jesse Clark,
William Arthur Conlan,
John Angell Cook,
Milton James Cook,
Harry Devillo Geiger,
Eugene Milton Graves,
James Grey,
Charles Augustus Hawley,
Marcellus Grant Hillman,
William Smith Hinckley,
Burdette Charles Hinkley, D. D. S.,
Ohio College of Dental Surgery.'
Elisha Dawley Hinkley, D. D. S.,
Ohio College of Dental Surgery.
Frank S. James,
Richard Davey Jones,
John William Kasbeer,
Herman Kreit,
Arthur Frederick Leuty,
George Blakesley Little,
Edward Ballard Lodge,
John Archibald McAlister,
Robert Duncan McBride,


William McFarlane,
John Morton Mcllvain, D. D. S.,
University of Maryland.
Jesse James McMullen,
Thomas Byron Mercer,
Walter Samuel Moore,
Mason Moyer,
Ethelwyn Phillips,
Fred M. Prettyman,
Weston Andrew Valleau Price,
Greenbury Albert Rawlings,
John George Schindler,
Frank Edward Seybold,
Louis Napoleon Seymour, D. D. S.,
Philadelphia Dental College.
Edward Grant Snodgrass, D. D. S.,
Ohio College of Dental Surgery.
John Francis Spring,
Milton Russell Stimson,
Burt Sidney Sutherland,
Sherman Hartwell Swift,
Will Hamilton Van Deman,
John Hoffman Van den Berg,
William Henry Van Iderstine,
Milton Tate Watson,
Will Lloyd Webster,
Henry Dudley Wilber,
Vernon Anderson Williams, D. D. S.,
Vanderbilt University.
Respectfully submitted,
J. TAFT, Dean,




156


JUNE MEETING, 1893.


On motion of Regent Kiefer, it was ordered that the
degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery be conferred upon the
persons named in the foregoing communication in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the College
of Dental Surgery.
Regent Kiefer presented the following communication:
ANN ARBOR, MICI., June 24, 1893
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Gentlemen.-By direction of the Faculty of the School of Pharmacy I beg leave to report that the following named students have
completed all the requirements for the degrees herewith specified.
They are therefore recommended to you as follows:
MASTER OF PHARMACY.
Emerson Romeo Miller, Ph. C.
PIARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST.


Lou Newton Benton,
Sheldon Coleman,
David Lake Davoll, Jr,
Fred Faber,
John David Fromm,
Lillian Missouri Geddes,
Abner B. Graham,
L. D. Havenhill,
Charles Otis Hill, A. B.,
University of Tennessee.
Elijah Mark Houghton,
By direction of the Faculty,


Charles W. Merkel,
George Alexander Morris,
Welles Blackwood Newton,
Frederick Holland Nickerson,
Bessie Gillespie Pierce,
Karl Edwin Rudolph,
William Scherer,
Carl Edward Smith,
George Wagner,
Silas Grant Wertz.
ery respectfully,
A. B. STEVENS, Secretary.


On motion of Regent Kiefer, the degrees indicated in
the foregoing communication were conferred upon the
persons named therein in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the School of Pharmacy.
A communication was received from the Faculty of
the College of Dental Surgery, asking the Board to establish in that College the degree of Doctor of Dental
Science. On motion of Regent Barbour, the request was
laid on the table.
On motion of Regent Whitman, it was ordered that




JUNE MEETING, 1893.


157


all applications for promotion in the Literary Department
be referred to the Committee on the Literary Department.
On motion of Regent Whitman, Professor Carhart was
authorized to employ a mechanician in the Department of
Physics at a salary of $700, the same as paid last year.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion, the Board adjourned to 7:30 P. M.
EVENING SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 7:30 p. M.
Regent Cocker moved that the Board proceed to erect
an administration building and a recitation building, and
to enlarge the anatomical building.
The motion was carried by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Barbour moved that if the Finance Committee
desire to employ some one to audit the accounts of the
University this year, that they be permitted to do so at a
cost not exceeding $500.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Barbour, Cocker, Hebard,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
The Board then adjourned to 9 o'clock A. M.
MORNING SESSION.
TUESDAY, June 27, 1893.
The Board assembled at 9 o'clock A. M.
Regent. Cook submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted:




158


JUNE MEETING, 1893.


Resolved, That the rule passed October 12, 1892, touching
salaries, which appears on page 109 of the Regents Proceedings,
shall only take effect upon the approval of the Board in each case.
Regent Cook submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted:
Resolved, That the Chairman of the Finance Committee of the
Board of Regents be added to and made a member of the Auditing
Board; and further, that any account coming before said Board for
adjustment not in compliance with the rules and laws of the Board
of Regents, be referred to the Board of Regents for their action before adjustment.
Regent Cook-submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That all the regulations, laws and by-laws of the
Board passed at different times and in effect up to date, be collected
by a committee consisting of two members of the Board, the President, and the Secretary of the Board, and that a revised edition of
them be printed for the use of the Board.
The President named Regents Cook and Barbour as
the two members of the Board called for in the foregoing
resolution; and the resolution was then adopted.
Regent Kiefer presented the request of Professor
Lombard for an appropriation of $892 for the purchase
of apparatus for the Physiological Laboratory which was,
on motion, laid on the table.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the Board went into
executive session.
The Board asked the Secretary to send for Dr. Taft
and Dr. Dorrance, and ask them to appear before the
Board.
On motion of Regent Cook, the Committee on the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Committee on the Department of Medicine and Surgery, and the
Committee on the Department of Law, were requested to
carefully look over their respective Departments and
ascertain if the working force, or the expenses, can be materially reduced without impairing the efficiency of said
Departments.




JUNE MEETING, 1893.


159


On motion of Regent Barbour, a communication from
the Faculty of the Dental Department asking the Board
to remove Dr. Dorrance from    the Chair of Prosthetic
Dentistry, was (after hearing both parties) laid on the
table until the next meeting of the Board.
The Medical Committee to whom were referred the
charges against Dr. H. L. Obetz, made a report, through
the Chairman, Regent Kiefer. After hearing it the Board
passed the following resolution:
Resolved, That the charges against Dr. H. L. Obetz have not
been sustained, and the case is herewith dismissed.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the Auditing Board
were authorized to expend a sum not exceeding $110 in
the purchase of carpet, felt, and signs to be used in connection with the University Exhibit at the World's Fair.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Cocker, Barbour,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
The Board then took a recess until 2:30 P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2:30 P. M., Regent Butter.
field having arrived.
Regent Butterfield presented the following recommendations of the Faculty of the Department of Law:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Gentlemen.-The Faculty would recommend that the following named persons be appointed to give instruction in the
Department of Law for one year, upon the same terms as last year:
Andrew C. McLaughlin, A. B., LL.B., Advanced course in Constitutional Law and Constitutional History.
Thomas M. Cooley, LL.D., Lecturer on Interstate Commerce.
Henry B. Brown, LL.D., Lecturer on Admiralty.




160


JUNE MEETING, 1893.


Victor C. Vaughan, Ph. D., M.D., Lecturer on Toxicology ln
its Legal Relations.
Marshall D. Ewell, LL.D., Lecturer on Medical Jurisprudence.
Samuel Maxwell, Lecturer on Code Pleading.
James L. High, LL.D., Lecturer on Injunctions and Receivers.
Melville M. Bigelow, Ph.D., Lecturer on Insurance.
John B. Clayberg, LL.B., Lecturer on Mining Law.
Richard Hudson, A.M., Lecturer on Comparative Constitutional
Law.
George H. Lothrop, Ph.B.,Lecturer on Patent Law.
Henry C. Adams, Ph.D., Lecturer on the Railroad Problem.
William G. Hammond, LL.D., Lecturer on History of Common Law.
Elias Finley Johnson, B.S, LL.M., Instructor in Law.
Respectfully submitted,
J. C. KNOWLTON, Dean.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the appointments
recommended in the foregoing communication were made
by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Whitman Alexis C. Angell,
A.B., LL.B., was appointed Lecturer on Constitutional Law,
in the Law Department, during the absence of Professor
A. C. McLaughlin. Compensation to be paid by Prof:
McLaughlin.
On motion of Regent Whitman the Superintendent of
Buildings was instructed to connect the down-spouts on
the gymnasium building with the sewer, the expense to
be taken from the Gymnasium Fund.
Dr. Herdman appeared before the Board, at their request, and explained the nature of his work, and the
amount of work he was doing.
On motion, the Board took a recess until 7:30 P. M.




JUNE MEETING, 1893.


161


EVENING SESSION.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the following appointments were made, to take effect October 1st, next.
IN THE MEDICAL AND LITERARY DEPARTMENTS.
Warren P. Lombard, A. B., M. D., permanent appointment as
Professor of Physiology and Histology, salary, $2,500 a year.
Frederick G. Novy, Sc. D., M.D., Junior Professor of Hygiene
and Physiological Chemistry, to act under the direction of Prbfessor Vaughan, salary $2,000 a year, not to be increased except by
specific action of the Regents.
In the Literary Department.
John C. Rolfe, Ph. D., Junior Professor of Latin.
George Hempl, Ph. D., Junior Professor of English.
Edward D. Campbell, B. S., Junior Professor of Metallurgy
and Metallurgical Chemistry (he to provide his own assistant).
Each of the above three persons is required to work under the
direction of the Senior Professor in his branch (Professor Campbell
under Professor Prescott) and the salary of each is fixed at $2,000,
and not to be increased except by specific action of the Board of
Regents.
Fred N. Scott, Ph. D., reappointed Assistant Professor of
Rhetoric, for three years, salary $1,600.
Frank N. Cole, Ph. D., reappointed Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, for three years, salary $1,600.
George H. Mead, A. B., appointed Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for three years, salary $1,600.
Dr. James A. Craig, Professor of Oriental Languages, salary
$2,000.
Joseph L. Markley, Ph. D., reappointed Instructor in Mathematics, for three years, salary $1,200.
Moritz Levi, A. B., reappointed Instructor in French, for three
years, salary $1,200.
Fred Morley, C. E., reappointed Instructor in Descriptive
Geometry and Drawing, for three years, salary $1,200.
Elmer A. Lyman, A. B., reappointed Instructor in Mathematics,
for three years, salary $1,200.
The following reappointments and new appointments were
made for one year, the Instructors at a salary of $900 a year:
Herman V. Ames, Ph. D., Acting Assistant Professor of
American History, salary to be paid by Professor McLaughlin.




162


JUNE MEETING, 1893.


Hiram A. Sober, A. B., Instructor in Latin.
George O. Higley, B. S., Instructor in General Chemistry.
Alfred H. Lloyd, A. M., Instructor in Philosophy.
Jonathan A. C. Hildner, A. M., Instructor in German.
Ernst Voss, Instructor in German.
David M. Lichty, M. S., Instructor in General Chemistry.
John O. Reed, Ph. M., Instructor in Physics.
Benjamin P. Bourland, A. M., Instructor in French.
John R. Effinger, Ph. B., Instructor in French.
Lorenzo N. Johnson, A. M., Instructor in Botany.
Herbert F. DeCou, A. M., Instructor in Greek.
Henry B. Ward, Pih. D., Instructor in Morphology.
Ernst H. Mensel, A. M., Instructor in German.
Lawrence McLouth, A. B., Instructor in German.
Earle W. Dow, A. B., Instructor in History.
Pomeroy Ladue, B. S., Instructor in Mathematics.
Eugene Leser, Ph. D., Instructor in French.
George E. Dawson, A. B., Instructor in English.
Moses Gomberg, AI. S., Instructor in Organic Chemistry.
Clarence G. Wrentmore, B. S., Instructor in Descriptive
Geometry and Drawing.
Eric Doolittle, B. S., Instructor in Astronomy.
Karl E. Guthe, Ph. D., Instructor in Physics.
Tobias Diekhoff, A. B., Instructor in German.
George A. Miller, A. M., Instructor in Mathematics.
Marshall S. Brown, A. M., Instructor in History.
The following Assistants were reappointed for one year:
Charles H. Cooley, A. B., in Political Economy, salary $500.
Frank H. Dixon, Ph. B., in Political Economy, salary $400.
Alice L. Hunt, in Drawing, salary $750.
William F. Edwards, B. S., Instructor and Accountant in the
Chemical Laboratory, salary $1,200.
A call vote being taken on the foregoing list of appointments resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
Dr. Kiefer moved that the following appointments be
made in the Department of Medicine and Surgery, for one
year from October 1st, next:




JUNE MEETING, 1893.


163


William F. Breakey, M. D., Lecturer on Dermatology, salary
$300.
Martin L. Belser, M. D., Instructor in Pathology, salary $900.
Perry Briggs, Ph. C., Pharmacist in the University Hospital,
salary $50 per month.
Simon M. Yutzy, M. D., Instructor in Osteology, Assistant
Demonstrator of Anatomy, and Assistant to the Professor of Anatomy; salary $1,000.
William L. R. Dunn, M. D., Assistant to the Professor of Sur
gery, salary $100.
Orton.H. Clark, M. D., Assistant to the Professor of Obstetrics
and Diseases of women, salary $100.
Jeanne C. Solis, M. D., Assistant to the Professor of Nervous
Diseases, salary $100.
Fannie L. Bishop, M. D., Assistant to the Professor of Theory and
Practice, salary $100.
William 0. Sauermann, M.-D., Assistant to the Professor of
Ophthalmology, salary $100.
William A. Kickland, B. S., Harry H. Brooks, and Katharine
L. Angell, Assistant Demonstrators of Anatomy, salary $200 each.
Sidney P. Budgett, Assistant in Physiology, salary $300.
An assistant in Histology, salary $300.
A call vote on the above appointments resulted as
follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour,
Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer moved that the following persons be
appointed as Demonstrators of the Practical Courses in the
Department of Medicine and Surgery:
Cyrenus G. Darling, M. D., Demonstrator of Surgery.
George F. Suker, M. D., Demonstrator of Ophthalmology.
Aldred S. Warthin, M. D., Ph.D., Demonstrator of Theory and
Practice.
James G. Lynds, M. D., Demonstrator of Obstetrics and
Gynaecology.
William  A. MacGugan, M. D., Demonstrator of Nervous
Diseases.
Regent Butterfield offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Auditing Board be authorized to increase




164


JUNE MEETING, 1893.


the fees for the practical courses referred to in Regent Kiefer's
motion, so that after the other expenses thereof are met, each
Demonstrator may receive a salary not to exceed $500. The University, however, assumes no responsibility therefor.
The resolution of Regent Butterfield was adopted and
a call vote taken on the appointments resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion, the Committee on Buildings and Grounds
were requested to ascertain the cost of putting a sun room
on the University Hospital, and report the same to the next
meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour, it was ordered that the
Hospital be kept open during the summer months.
Regent Barbour moved that the following appointments be made:
Charles T. McClintock Ph. D., Assistant in the Hygienic
Laboratory, to do the water analysis, at a salary of $400;
Charles E. Marshall to be Assistant in the Hygienic Laboratory at
a salary of $200.
That the Professor of General Chemistry be allowed an assistant at $300.
And that Dr. Vaughan be allowed $1000 for services as Dean
of the Medical Department.
The vote resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Barbour submitted the following communication from the Director of the Chemical Laboratory:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., June 27, 1893.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
Gentlemen.-I beg leave to propose appointments to maintain
the teaching force in the Chemical Laboratory for the year 1893-94,
as follows, in each instance without change of salary:
I recommend that Julius 0. Schlotterbeck, B. S., be continued




JUNE MEETING, 1893.


165


for 1893-94, as Instructor in Pharmacognosy and in Botany, at the
same salary (Minutes, 1892, p. 70. The duty and title, not expressed
in full in last appointment, are actually the same as here recommended.   Mr. Schlotterbeck teaches botany to the pharmacy
classes).
That William H. Andrews be continued as Assistant in Quantitative Analysis, with a salary of $200 per annum (Minutes, 1892, p.
65).
That Richard Fischer, Ph. C., be continued as Assistant in
Qualitative Analysis with a salary of $196 per annum (Minutes, 1892,
p. 65).
That David L. Davoll, Jr., Ph. C., be continued as Assistant in Qualitative Analysis with a salary of $200 per annum (Minutes, 1892, p. 106).
That Perry F. Trowbridge, Ph. B., be appointed as Assistant
in Qualitative Analysis in place of Bernard C. Hesse, at the same
salary, $250 per annum (Minutes, 1892, p. 65).
That L. D. Havenhill, Ph. C., be appointed Assistant in
Pharmacy, at $150 per annum, in place of Roy D. Young, who received the same salary.
That Eugene H. Robertson, Ph. M., be continued at Assistant in Physiological Chemistry, in the Chemical Laboratory, at
the same salary, $196 per annum.
Respectfully submitted,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT,
Director of the Chemical Laboratory.
On motion of Regent Barbour, all the appointments
recommended in the foregoing communication were made
by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Butterfield moved that the following assistants in the General Library be reappointed for the college year, 1893-94, at the same salary as last year, viz:
$900 each.
Fred P. Jordan, A. B., Assistant in charge of catalogue.
Byron A. Finney, A. B., Assistant in charge of circulation.
Anderson H. Hopkins, Ph. B., General Assistant.
3




166


JUNE MEETING, 1893.


It was so ordered by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
The Board took a recess until 9 o'clock A. M.
MORNING SESSION.
WEDNESDAY, June 28, 1893.
The Board reassembled at 9 o'clock A. MI. (Regent
Kiefer being absent), and on motion of Regent Whitman
went into. executive session.
Regent Cocker stated that Professors Hudson and
Kelsey, having been abroad for the past year had not participated in the general increase of salaries of full Professors in the Literary Department, and moved that on
their return the salary of Professor Hudson be made $2700,
and that of Prof. Kelsey $2500.
The vote was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour,
Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Butterfield moved that a cataloguer be appointed in the General Library, for one year, at a salary of
$800, to be paid out of money heretofore appropriated for
the purchase of books.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour,
Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman moved that a stenographer be employed for the University at a salary not exceeding $900;
and also that $200 be appropriated for the purchase of apparatus for use in the Psychological Laboratory.




JUNE MEETING, 1893.


167


The motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour,
Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Hebard moved that an appropriation of $460
be made for the purchase of specimens for illustrative
teaching in Geology, as requested by Professor Russell.
It was so ordered as follows:
Ayes-Regent Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour,
Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Cocker moved that the Board accept the plan
presented by E. W. Arnold, architect, of Detroit, for the
administration building, at a cost not exceeding $45,000,
and the plan submitted by Spier & Rohns, architects, of
Detroit, for the recitation building, at a cost not exceeding
$30,000.
A call vote was taken on this motion, resulting as follows:
Ayes-Regents Whitman, Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour,
Cocker, and Cook.
Nays —None.
The Board voted unanimously to confer the honorary
degree of Master of Science upon John Martin Schaeberle,
C. E., class of 1876, now Professor of Astronomy in the Lick
Observatory; and the honorary degree of Master of Arts
upon Charles B. Nancrede, M. D., Professor of Surgery and
Clinical Surgery, in this University; on Hon. Charles
Henry Aldrich, A.B., of Chicago, class of 1875, late SolicitorGeneral of the United States; and on Hon. Lawrence Maxwell, B. S. of Washington, class of 1874, the present
Solicitor General of the United States.
A communication was received from Dr. C. L. Ford,
Professor of Anatomy, proposing to turn over to the University, for the use of the Dental Department, his fine
private collection of anatomical specimens, provided the




168            JUNE MEETING, 1893.
Board would appoint a curator and appropriate $100 a
year for its care.
The Board expressed a willingness to appoint a curator and appropriate $100 for this year, but thought they
could not legally bind their successors in perpetuity.
On motion, the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




SPECIAL MEETING.
AUGUST, 1893.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, August 3rd, 1893.
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock, A. M.
Present-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook, and Barbour.
Absent-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, and Howard.
Regent Kief.er presented and read the resignation of
Dr. J. C. Wood, Professor of Diseases of Women and
Children in the Homoeopathic Medical College, which
was, on motion, accepted.
Dr. H. L. Obetz, Dean of the Homceopathic Medical
College, addressed the Board on matters relating to that
department.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Arthur R. Cushny, A.
M., M. D., was appointed Professor of Materia Medica and
Therapeutics in the Department of Medicine and Surgery
for one year, at a salary of $2,200, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook, and Barbour.
Nays-None.
Regent Barbour moved that a sum not exceeding $50
be appropriated for the purpose of printing 2,000 copies
of the report of work done in the University Hospital
during the last year.
The motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook, and Barbour.
Nays-None.
Regent Barbour moved that $300 be appropriated for




170


SPECIAL MEETING, 1893.


the purpose of employing William Blair, M. D., as an assistant in the Laboratory of Electro-Therapeutics.
Regent Whitman moved to amend by making the salary $900.
A call vote being taken on the amendment of Regent
Whitman, resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman and Cocker.
Nays-Regents Cook and Barbour.
Regent Barbour moved that the sum of $300 be appropriated for the purpose of grading East Catherine
street adjoining the Hospital grounds, provided the city of
Ann Arbor will expend an equal amount in the work.
And also that $100 be set apart for the purpose of paving
the gutter on the north side of East Catherine street, along
the line of the Hospital grounds.
The vote on this motion was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook, and Barbour.
Nays-None.
Regent Barbour moved that the Secretary use the unexpended balance in the gymnasium fund as follows: 1st,
Paint all iron-work in roof and running track, two coats;
2d, Oil the roof-boards with two coats linseed oil; 3d, Put
a permanent floor of Georgia pine in main room; 4th, Put
floor on the running track; 5th, Put wainscot around the
large room.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook, and Barbour.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Cocker Regent Barbour was requested to consult with the architect, and. suggest such
changes in the plans of the Administration building as
he might think wise.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the Committee on
Buildings and Grounds were requested to secure bids on
the Administration and Recitation buildings as soon as




SPECIAL -MEETING, 1893.


171


the plans are ready, and submit the same to the Board at
the next meeting.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Secretary was instructed to ascertain the cost of a brick wall, ten feet high,
enclosing a court sufficiently large to hold the ashes and
other rubbish which accumulates in and around the boiler
houses in a year, and report the sameto the Board at
their next meeting.
Regent Whitman, chairman of the Committee on
Buildings and Grounds, submitted the following tenders
for the enlargement of the Anatomical building:
J. L. Gearing & Sons, for the work complete  - -- $8,889 00
Wallace and Morres, "  "    "      ~ ------  7,300 00
William Biggs,         "    " "  __ —____-   6,796 81
Arthur J. Kitson,  "   "     "..__ _ —.  6,818 00
The bids being so much in excess of the amount set
apart for this work the Board did not see their way
clear to award the contract at this time, and on motion of
Regent Barbour the matter was indefinitely postponed.
Regent Barbour moved that the Departments of Englisl, Botany, and Biology, each be allowed to select one
resident graduate assistant at a salary of $300, aud report
their names at a subsequent meeting for confirmation by
the Board.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker; Cook, and Barbour.
Nays-None.
By request, Dr. Dorrance appeared before the Board
and listened to charges preferred against him by the Faculty of the Dental College. On motion of Regent Kiefer
the matter was continued until the'next meeting of the.
Board, and Dr. Dorrance was requested to present his defense at that time.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the appointment.of Dr.
D. A. MacLachlan, as secretary of the Homoeopathic Medical Faculty was rescinded, and Dr. Charles S. Mack was




172              SPECIAL MEETING, 1893.
appointed to the place with salary of $100 by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Cocker, Cook, and Barbour.
Nays-None.
Regent Barbour submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That Regent Kiefer, Chairman of the Medical Committee, be authorized to ascertain if the Charles B. Gatchell, whose
name appears in the Faculty list of the Cook county hospital, Ill.,
is the same person as the Charles Gatchell now Professor of
Theory and Practice in the Homoeopathic College of this University, and if so, that he ask in the name of the Board of Regents for
the resignation of the said Charles Gatchell.
The resolution was carried unanimously.
On motion, the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




SPECIAL MEETING.
SEPT. 1893.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
September 1, 1893. 
The Board assembled in the room of the President, at
10 o'clock, A. M.
Present —Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, and
Cook.
Absent-Regents Butterfield, Cocker, and Howard.
The President being absent, the Board called Regent
Hebard to the chair.
The Secretary presented the resignation of Charles
Gatchell, Professor of Theory and Practice in the Homoeopathic Medical College, which was, on motion of Regent
Kiefer, accepted.
On motion of Regent Whitman, A. J. Pieters was reappointed Laboratory assistant in Botany for one year, at
a salary of $200, and Miss Harriet L. Merrow, A. M., Assistant in Botany at a salary of $300. This last appointment is in accordance with the action of the Board at
their last meeting.
A call vote was taken on these appointments which
resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Cocker, S. D. Townley, M. S.,
was appointed Instructor in Astronomy in place of E. Doolittle, who was appointed in June, but who declined the
position.




174


SPECIAL MEETING, 1893.


On motion of Regent Whitman, the resignation of Dr.
I. B. Ward, Instructor in Animal Morphology was accepted.
On the recommendation of Prof. Reighard, Regent
Cocker moved that the following appointments be made
in the Biological Laboraatory for one year:
Dean C. Worcester, A. B., Instructor in Animal Morphology,
with a salary of $900.
Herbert S. Jennings, B. S., Assistant in Vertebrate Morphology, salary, $500.
Frank Smith, A. B., Assistant in Vertebrate Morphology, with
salary of $300.
James Brennerman, Assistant in Morphology, with salary of
$200.
The motion of Regent Cocker was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, and Cook,
Nays-None.
Regent Barbour moved that the following appointments be made in the Dental College for one year:
Lonis P. Hall, DD. S., to be Assistant to the Professor of Operative and Clinical Dentistry, at a salary of $600.
Allison W. Haidle, DD. S., Assistant in Mechanical Dentistry,
at a salary of $500.
Cyrenus G. Darling, M. D., Clinical Lecturer on Oral Pathology in the College of Dental Surgery, at a salary of $300.
The vote on Regent Barbour's motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion the Board adjourned to 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board re-assembled at 2 o'clock P. M., and took up
the consideration of bids for the Administration and Recitation buildings, which were found to be as follows:




SPECIAL MEETING, 1859.


175


Adminis-   Recitatration.   tion.
Albert Strelow, Detroit..- --—. ----....      $2,550
John H. Holmes, Bay City --- — —..-.$59,600     31,150
F. W. Glenfield, Ypsilanti —, —_ --- —  53,496  29,133
J. L. Gearing& Sons, Detroit --— _.. --- 48,571  29,285
Vinton & Co., Detroit - —. --- ---  -- 49,600  27,300
Spitzley Brothers, Detroit ---  ----- --         26,423
Goodspeed & Schaffer, Ypsilanti ---- - -  ---    28,747
Rogers & Hicks, Detroit --. --  --— _  48,500  28,000
Dietrick Brothers, Detroit -- - -- -  -         25,465
On motion of Regent Barbour, the letting of contracts
was deferred until the next meeting of the Board, and the
Building Committee and Regent Cook were requested to
examine the specifications of both buildings, and suggest
such changes as may be found necessary; also to examine
into the responsibility of the lowest bidders for each
building, and their bondsmen, and report at the next meeting of the Board. That the Secretary request the bidders
to allow their tenders and sureties to remain in his hands
until the Board meets again.
Regent Barbour moved that the sum of $80 be appropriated for the purpose of binding books in the Law
Library. The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman moved the sum of $50 be allowed
Judge T. M. Cooley for legal services in the interest of the
University. The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer,Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Executive Committee was requested to confer with the Homeeopathic Faculty
and' select suitable men to fill the chairsin the Homoeopathic Medical College, made vacant by the resignation
of Professors James C. Wood and Charles Gatchell, and
report their names at the next meeting of the Board.
Regent Barbour submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted:




176              SPECIAL MEETING, 1893.
Resolved, That Secretary Wade shall go to Chicago as the
accredited agent of this Board, and ascertain what foreign exhibits
or parts of foreign exhibits may be obtained for the University, and
that he solicit from President Palmer such assistance as he may be
able to render,
On motion of Regent Whitman, $25 was appropriated
for the purchase of a vacuum evaporating apparatus for
use in the Laboratory of General Chemistry, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion, the Board adjourned to September 20th.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




SEPTEMBER MEETING.
1893.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,     f
ANN ARBOR, Sept. 20, 1893.
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Barbour, Cocker,
and Cook.
Absent-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, and Howrrd.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the Board went into
Executive Session.
By permission, William Biggs appeared before the
Board and requested them to pay him $4,000 claimed to be
due him on the contract for constructing the new Hospital
buildings. IHe gave notice that unless 'the matter was
settled at the October meeting of the Board, he would proceed in the courts to collect the amount due him.
Dr. W. F. Breakey presented to the Board his claim
for an increase of salary as Lecturer on Dermatology in
the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
Prof. H. C. Adams urged the Board to increase the
salary, and change the title of Assistant Professor F. M.
Taylor, making the title Junior Professor of Political
Economy, and the salary $2,000.
Dr. V. C. Vaughan, Dean of the Department of Medicine and Surgery presented the wants of his department.
On motion, the Board adjourned to 2 o'clock p. M.




178


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1893.


AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock P. M.
Regent Kiefer presented the following communication
from the Faculty of the Homoeopathic Medical College:
To the Honorable Board of Regents, University of Michigan:
Gentlemen-At a meeting of the Faculty of the Homoeopathic
Medical College, held the 8th inst., it was voted to recommend to
the Regents for appointment Dr. Maurice P. Hunt as Professor of
Gynecology and Obstetrics, and Dr. E. R..Eggleston as Professor of
Theory and Practice.
H. L. OBETZ, M. D.,
CHAS. S. MACK, M. D.,                            Dean.
Secretary of Faculty.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the foregoing appointments were made for one year at a salary of $2,000 each
by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Barbour, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion the Board adjourned to 7:30 P. M.
EVENING    SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 7:30 P. M.
Dr. W. H. Dorrance appeared before the Board and
made answer to the charges preferred against him by the
Dental Faculty.
Regent Whitman moved that the.Secretary be instructed to make voucher in favor of E. W. Arnold, arehitect, for $847 45, being the amount due him for making
the plans for gymnasium building. Also that $45 be appropriated for the purchase of illustrative material for use
in the Bacteriological Laboratory.
The motion of Regent Whitman was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Barbour, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1893.


179


On motion, the Board adjourned to to-morrow morning at 9 o'clock.
MORNING SESSION.
SEPTEMBER 21, 1893.
The Board reassembled at 9 o'clock A. M.
Regent Barbour submitted the following resolution
which was adopted:
Resolved; That the differences existing in the Dental Department touching Dr. Dorrance and his work be referred to the Medical
Committee with power to adjust the same.
Regent Kiefer moved that S. P. Budgett be appointed
Assistant in Physiology, for one year, with a salary of $500,
and that $800 be appropriated for the purchase of apparatus in the Physiological Laboratory.
That Archibald Muirhead, M. D., be appointed Assistant t the Professor of Materia Medica and Therapeutics for
one year with a,salary of $500, and that $400 be appropriated
for the current expenses of the Laboratory of Materia
Medica.
That George Roberts, M. D., be appointed Assistant in
Histology for one year at a salary of $300.
That Assistant Professor F. M. Taylor be made Junior
Professor of Political Economy, for three years, at a salary
of $2,000.
And that Louis P. Hall,DD.S., Assistant in Operative
Dentistry, be made Instructor in Dental Anatomy and
Operative Dentistry, for one year, at a salary of $900.
A call vote being taken on the motion of Regent
Kiefer, resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Barbour,- Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman moved that the Secretary be instructed to put hoods over the entrances to the Library




180


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1893.


building, at an expense not exceeding $300; also to put hood
over west door of the President's house.
The vote on Regent Whitman's motion was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Barbour, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Cook, the Board took arecess
until 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock P. M.
Regent Barbour submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted unanimously:
Resolved, That the contract for the erection and completion of
the Recitation building be awarded to Dietrick Brothers, of Detroit,
at the amount of their bid, $25,465, and that the President and Secretary enter into the necessary contract therefor. Also, that the
two bonds tendered by Dietrick Bros. be approved as to amount and
sureties.
Regent Whitman submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted:
Resolved, That the Committee on Buildings and Grounds be
and are hereby authorized to approve contract for the Recitation
building, which contract is then to be signed by the President and
Secretary of the Board, after which said Committee are directed and
authorized to proceed with the work of construction; to enforce the
contract; to approve the monthly estimates for payment, and to
contract and do all things that the Board could do, that are necessary to the completion of the building ordered by the Board of
Regents.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the architect and the
Secretary were requested to establish the grade for the new
Recitation building.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Regent Cook was re
quested to act on the Committee on Buildings and
Grounds until such time as Regent Howard is able to resume his work on the committee.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1893.


181


Regent Whitman moved that the following appointments be made:
That Max Winkler, Ph.D., be appointed Instructor in German,
or one year, at a salary of $900.
That Richard R. Putnam be Assistant in General Chemistry,
for one year, at a salary of $300.
That John B. Johnston Ph.B., be Assistant in Invertebrate Mor
phology, for one year, at a salary of $300.
That Louis A. Strauss, B. L., be Assistant in English, for one
year, at a salary of $300.
The vote taken on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Barbour, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Cook, the President and Secretary were requested to take such action as they may deem
necessary in securing gifts from exhibitors at the World's
Fair to this University.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Superintendent of
Buildings was directed to put new roofs on the Homoeopathic Medical College and on the Dental College building, using painted shingles.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the leave of absence
granted to Instructor Fred Morley was extended for six
weeks.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Oct. 18th.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




OCTOBER MEETING.
1893.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, Oct. 18, 1893.
The Board assembled in the room of the President
at 10 A. M.
Present-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour,
Cocker, and Cook.
Absent-Regents Butterfield, and Howard.
Sundry papers which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the appropriate committees of the
Board.
The president then presented and read his annual report. On motion of Regent Whitman, the usual number
of copies was ordered printed for the use of the Board.
The report was as follows:
THE PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
I have the honor to present to you my Annual Report
for the year ending September 30, 1893.
The following is a list of appointments made and
of resignations accepted:
In October, 1892, F. R. Mechem, was appointed Tappan Professor of Law; and Assistant Professor J. E. Reighard, Professor
of Animal Mofphology.
In November, 1892, George F. Metzler, Ph. D., Instructor in
Mathematics: E. W. Dow, A. B., Instructor in History, each for
one year; Carl W. Belser, Ph. D., (reappointed for three years),
Assistant Professor of Oriental Languages; Judge Samuel Maxwell,




184


OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


Lecturer on Code Pleading, (one year); William G. Hammond, LL.
D., Lecturer on History of Common Law (one year).
In December, 1892, Assistant Professor T. C. Trueblood was
made Professor of Elocution and Oratory, from January 1, 1893.
In February, 1893, the resignations of Assistant Professor Belser, Ph. D., Arthur G. Hall, B. S., Instructor in Mathematics, and
Moritz Levi, A. B., Instructor in French, were accepted, and Pomeroy Ladue, B. S., was appointed Instructor in Mathematics, and
Eugene Leser, Ph. D., Instructor in French, each for the second
semester.
The President was authorized to fill the vacancy in the chair of
Oriental Languages. He afterwards appointed W. Muss-Arnolt,
Ph. D., Acting Assistant Professor for the second semester.
In May, F. C. Newcombe, B. S., was appointed Acting Assistant Professor of Botany, for the next year, to take the work of Professor Spalding, who was granted permission to spend the coming
year in Europe. Professor McLaughlin was also granted leave of
absence for a year, to pursue studies in Europe. The resignation of
Professor John J. Abel, Ph.' D., was accepted.
In June the following appointments were made:
IN THE LAW DEPARTMENT,
(for one year)
Andrew C. McLaughlin, A. B., LL. A., Advanced Course in
Constitutional Law and Constitutional History.
Thomas M. Cooley, LL. D., Lecturer on Interstate Commerce.
Henry B. Brown, LL. D., Lecturer on Admiralty.
Victor C. Vaughan, Ph. D., M. D., Lecturer on Toxicology in
its Legal Relations.
Marshall D. Ewell, LL. D., Lecturer on Medical Jurisprudence.
Samuel Maxwell, Lecturer on Code Pleading.
James L. High, LL. D., Lecturer on Injunctions and Receivers.
Melville M. Bigelow, Ph. D., Lecturer on Insurance.
John B. Clayberg, LL. B., Lecturer on Mining Law.
Richard Hudson, A. M., Lecturer on Comparative Constitutional Law.
George H. Lothrop, Ph. B., Lecturer on Patent Law.
Henry C. Adams, Ph. D., Lecturer on the Railroad Problem.
William G. Hammond, LL. D., Lecturer on History of Common Law.
Elias Finley Johnson, B. S., LL. M., Instructor in Law.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


185


IN BOTH THE MEDICAL AND LITERARY DEPARTMENTS.
Warren P. Lombard, A. B., M. D., permanent appointment as
Professor of Physiology and Histology.
Frederick G. Novy, Sc. D., M. D., Junior Professor of Hygiene
and Physiological Chemistry, to act under the direction of Professor Vaughan.
IN THE LITERARY DEPARTMENT.
John C. Rolfe, Ph. D., Junior Professor of Latin.
George Hempl, Ph. D., Junior Professor of English.
Edward D. Campbell, B. S., Junior Professor of Metallurgy
and Metallurgical Chemistry (he to provide his own assistant).
Each of the above three persons is required to work under the
direction of the Senior Professor in his branch (Professor Campbell
under Professor Prescott).
Fred N. Scott, Ph. D., reappointed Assistant Professor of Rhetoric, for three years.
Frank N. Cole, Ph. D., reappointed Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, for three years.
George H. Mead, A. B., appointed Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for three years.
Joseph L. Markley, Ph. D., reappointed Instructor in Mathematics, for three years.
Moritz Levi, A. B., reappointed Instructor in French, for three
years.
Fred Morley, C. E., reappointed Instructor in Descriptive
Geometry and Drawing, for three years.
Elmer A. Lyman, A.B., reappointed Instructor in Mathematics,
for three years.
The following reappointments and new appointments were
made for one year 
Dr. James A. Craig, appointed Professor of Oriental Languages.
Herman V. Ames, Ph. D., Acting Assistant Professor of Amer
ican History.
Hiram A. Sober, A. B., Instructor in Latin.
George O. Higley, B. S., Instructor in General Chemistry.
Alfred H. Lloyd, A. M., Instructor in Philosophy.
Jonathan A. C. Hildner, A. M., Instructor in German.
Ernst Voss, Instructor in German.
David M. Lichty, M. S., Instructor in General Chemistry.
John O. Reed, Ph. M., Instructor in Physics.




186


OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


Benjamin P. Bourland, A. M., Instructor in French.
John R. Effinger, Ph. B., Instructor in French.
Lorenzo N. Johnson, A. M., Instructor in Botany.
Herbert F. DeCou, A. M., Instructor in Greek.
Henry B. Ward, Ph. D., Instructor in Morphology.
Ernst II. Mensel, A. M., Instructor in German.
Lawrence McLouth, A. B., Instructor in German.
Earle W: Dow, A. B., Instructor in History.
Pomeroy Ladue, B. S.. Instructor in Mathematics.
Eugene Leser, Ph. D.. Instructor in French.
George E. Dawson, A. B., Instructor in English.
Moses Gomberg, M. S., Instructor in Organic Chemistry.
Clarence G. Wrentmore, B. S., Instructor in Descriptive
Geometry and Drawing.
Eric Doolittle, B. S., Instructor in Astronomy.
Karl E. Guthe, Ph. D.. Instructor in Physics.
Tobias Diekhoff, A. B., Instructor in German.
George A. Miller, A. M., Instructor in Mathematics.
Marshall S. Brown, A. M., Instructor in History.
The following assistants were reappointed for one year:
Charles H. Cooley, A. B., in Political Economy.
Frank H. Dixon, Ph. B., in Political Economy.
Alice L. Hunt, in Drawing.
William F. Edwards, B. S., Instructor and Accountant in the
Chemical Laboratory.
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
(for one year).
William F. Breakey, M. D., Lecturer on Dermatology.
Martin L. Belser, M. D., Instructor in Pathology.
Simon M. Yutzy, M. D., Instructor in Osteology, Assistant
Demonstrator of Anatomy.
SCHOOL OF PHARMACY.
Julius 0. Schlotterbeck, B. S., Instructor in Pharmacognosy
and Botany, (for one year).
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
Fred P. Jordan, A. B., Assistant in charge of catalogue.
Byron A. Finney, A. B., Assistant in charge of circulation.
Anderson H. Hopkins, Ph. B., General Assistant.
The following appointment was made at the August meeting:
Arthur R. Cushny, A. M., M. D., Professor of Materia Medica




OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


187


and Therapeutics, for one year, in the Department of Medicine and
Surgery.
Dr. J. C. Wood resigned the Professorship of the Diseases of
Women and Children in the Homceopathic Medical College.
At the meeting on September 1st, Charles Gatchell, M. D.,
resigned the chair of Theory and Practice in the Homceopathic
Medical College.
The following appointments were made:
S. D. Townley, M. S., Instructor in Astronomy, in place of Eric
Doolittle, appointed in June, who declined.
D. C. Worcester, A. B., Instructor in Animal Morphology, in
place of Dr. H. B. Ward, resigned.
H. S. Jennings, B. S., Assistant in Vertebrate Morphology.
C. G. Darling, M. D., Clinical Lecturer on Oral Pathology in
the Dental College.
At the meeting on September 20th, the following appointments
were made:
F. M. Taylor, Ph. D., Assistant Professor, was made Junior
Professor of Political Economy and Finance.
Maurice P. Hunt, M. D., Professor of Gynecology and Obstetrics in the Homceopathic Medical College.
E. R. Eggleston, M. D., Professor of Theory and Practice in
the same department.
Louis P. Hall, D. D. S., Instructor in Dental Anatomy and
Operative Dentistry.
J. B. Johnston, Ph. B., Assistant in Invertebrate Morphology.
Max Winkler, Ph. D., Instructor in German.
Degrees were conferred as follows, during the year:
DEGREES ON EXAMINATION.
Bachelor of Letters..      -.29
Bachelor of Science (in Biology)._  -----           -- 
Bachelor of Science (in Chemistry).,      _ ----, _  -----  5
Bachelor of Science (in Electrical Engineering) --------- 13
Bachelor of Science (in Mining Engineering)  ----          2
Bachelor of Science (in Mechanical Engineering) -------  - 13
Bachelor of Science (in Civil Engineering) --- —---------   15
Bachelor of Science - --—. _ — --— _ _-_ __ __    __      15
Bachelor of Philosophy --- —  -----          __             53
Bachelor of Arts ---- ---- -                         __    73
Master of Letters ---        ----       -- --          _ 




188


OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


Civil Engineer ------- -—... —...              1
Mlaster of Science --. ----.          4
Master of Philosophy --- —-— _                       5
Master of Arts — _ --- —--- _ __                    12
Doctor of Philosophy__ —  ---            -      -   1
Doctor of Medicine (Department of Medicine and Surgery),-  49
Bachelor of Laws-_ -   ----- _-        _.330
Master of Laws.- -- ---        ------               18
Pharmaceutical Chemist --- —- — _ — _ ___ _ —_ --- 20
Master of Pharmacy — --- -- __   -______ ___        1
Doctor of Medicine (Homoeopathic Medical College) --- __  20
Doctor of Dental Surgery ----... —._...__     _   53
742
HONORARY DEGREES.
Master of Science ---- --   ---      -               1
Master of Arts ----    -..-        --           2
745
Last year the number of degrees conferred, 699, was
the largest recorded in the history of any American University. But that number is now exceeded by 46. This
is the more noteworthy, because owing to the transition in
Medical Schools from a three years' course to a four years'
course, the number graduating in the Department of Medicine and Surgery was only about half as large as usual.
The coming year the graduating class in that Department
will be about as large as it was in former years. If the
increase in the number of graduates were occasioned by
a lowering of the standard of graduation, it would afford
no ground for satisfaction. But it has come in the face ot
an advance in the requirements of graduation, and is,
therefore, gratifying.
The attendance has been as follows:
SUMMARY OF STUDENTS.
DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS.
Holder of the Elisha Jones Classical Fellowship ---- _  1
Resident Graduates-_  --- ---        --        65
Candidates for an Advanced Degree, Enrolled in Other
Departments                                 6




OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.               189
Graduates Studying in Absentia -------- -------- 44
Undergraduates:
Candidates for a Degree - ---      ----       1131
Students not Candidates for a Degree- -244-1491
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY.
Resident Graduates --- —--  ----------------       3
Fourth Year Students ---              -           46
Third Year Students ----   ------                76
Second Year Students    ----- -   -—.           91
First Year, Students --- —-------------          128- 344
DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
Resident Graduates — -------    --  --   --      24
Seniors -----     -------------        ---      319.
Juniors -- ------         ---- 270
Special Students ----- -     --   -    --     - 12
Students enrolled in the Department of Literature,
Science, and the Arts__-                     14- 639
SCHOOL OF PHARMACY.
Resident Graduates  ---   ----- _ — -—. -— _     2
Second Year Students- ------                    - 33
First Year Students   ----. --              47-  82
HOM(EOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE.
Resident Graduate. --- —--  ----     -----   ---   1
Fourth Year Students ------ - --      --   --    21
Third Year Students-.-    ---- --     -    ---   13
Second Year Students ----  -----    -10
First Year Students ---       ------              18- 63
COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY,
Resident Graduates  --   ---- --. --- —    --     7
Seniors. ---- --.-_ ----        ---------- 52
Juniors ----  -- - -—. ----- ----      -76
Freshmen --- — -- --    -                     --  54- 189
2808
Deduct for names counted more than once --- — _.  30
Total ---- __  --- _. — -  -- -_- - __ — --   2778
The number of students was larger than in the year
preceding by 86.   By far the largest increase was in




190


OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


the Literary Department, 161. The School of Pharmacy
and the Dental College had each one more student than
in the preceding year, while the attendance fell off a little
in each of the other Professional Schools. We regard the
growth of the Literary Department as the surest proof of
the prosperity of the University. There was a gratifying
increase in the attendance of most of the stronger colleges
and universities of the country last year. But though
this growth of the western institutions might have been
expected to reduce our numbers, such did not prove to be
the fact. The students from other States than Michigan
were even more than in 1891-2. But the aggregate
increase of 86 was chiefly due to the increased number
from Michigan, which was 79 greater than in the previous
year. For the first time in many years Michigan furnished
a fraction of one per cent. more than one-half of all our
students. This evinced a gratifying appreciation by the
State of the advantages the University offers to her children, and also of the value of a higher education.
Forty-four of our States and Territories were represented in our students, Illinois sending 310, Ohio 217,
Indiana 114, Iowa 71, Pennsylvania 72, New York 67, Mis
souri 55, Kansas 38, Wisconsin 38, Nebraska 33, Minnesota 30, Utah 29, California 27, Massachusetts 24, Colorado
23, Kentucky 21, Oregon 15, Washington 15, Tennessee 12,
Maryland 9, Montana 9, Texas 9, New Hampshire 8.
Every New England State was represented. 'Students
were present from the following foreign States and Provinces: Ontario (29),Japan, England, Germany, China, New
Brunswick, Hawaiian Islands, Italy, Barbadoes, Bermuda,
Bulgaria, Costa Rica, Manitoba, Porto Rico, Quebec, Scotland, South Africa. It is a fact of special interest that
two women from China are in attendance on the Medical
Department. They are under the care of American missionaries, who are here with them. So far as I know they
are, with a single exception, the first Chinese women who
have ever left their native land for the purpose of study.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


191


The importance of such an experiment can hardly be
overestimated.
The attendance of women was as follows:
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts --- — 514
Department of Medicine and Surgery --- — 71
Department of Law- ---  ------           --- ---  2
School of Pharmacy- -— _......... __ --- _ —  6
Homceopathic Medical College —. ---  -----   -- 14
College of Dental Surgery --- -----      ----      7
Total-. — ----- ----------         ---— 614
Compared with the previous year, there was an increased attendance -of women: in the aggregate, 83, or
15.6 per cent.; in the Literary Department, 77, or 17.6 per
cent.; in the Medical Department, 12, or 20 per cent.; in
the Pharmacy Department of 2. There was a decrease in
the Law Department of 1, in the Homoeopathic College of
6, in the Dental College of 1. The women now constitute
nearly 37 per cent. of the attendance in the Literary Department. Last year they formed 33 per cent. Whether
one observes the high schools or the colleges of the country, one cannot but be struck with the increase in the
number of women, compared with that of the men, who
are obtaining an academic or collegiate education. In
many of the Michigan high schools the graduating classes
are made up almost wholly of girls. The boys are drawn
off to wage-earning pursuits before they have completed
the school course. It is no longer an exceptional thing
for the girl in the family to go to college. She looks forward, if her father's means permit the anticipation, from
the high school to the college as she looked forward from
the grammar school to the high school. So it has come
to pass that the number of young women not only in the
colleges which are intended for their sex alone, but also
in the colleges and universities, which receive students of
both sexes, is rapidly increasing. It is indeed becoming a
question whether a generation hence there will be as




192


OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


many college-trained men as college-trained women in
this country. The educational, intellectual, and social
consequences of this forward movement in the training of
women we may not be able to foresee fully, but that they
must be very important no one can doubt. I cannot but
think that they will be very beneficent. Just now, however, the stimulus to obtain collegiate education needs to
be given to the boys more than to the girls, at least in the
west.
One cannot but be struck with the rapidly increasing
favor with which the policy of opening universities and
colleges to women is received il Eu!ppe as well as in
America. The success of women in all branches of university study, and the wise use which they are making of
their attainments in life, are fast overcoming the objections long held to offering them the opportunities for
higher education, while the experience of the institutions
which are educating men and women together is rapidly
conquering the theoretical objections to coeducation of
the sexes. The benefits of this rational policy of opening
to women the advantages of education long offered to men
are not to be measured by the blessings thus conferred
personally upon the women, who enjoy those advantages,
but account miust be taken of the vast improvement thus
secured to the schools in which these women are teaching.
A new inspiration has been carried into the seminaries,
high schools and colleges, in which women, graduates of
good colleges, are now giving instruction. Few agencies
have been more potent in lifting the grade of secondary
education in the west in the last few years than the thorough collegiate training of the women who have been
charged with the duty of teaching in the secondary
schools.
The subscriptions for the Waterman Gymnasium,
though insufficient for the completion of the building, have
enabled us to put up the walls of the main structure, to
roof it, and to lay the principal floors. We need about




OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


193


$18,000 to finish the building which is. now enclosed, and
we should have about $20,000 more to complete the wing
for the women. The severity of the financial crisis in the
country has rendered it useless to attempt to secure these
sums during the months just past. We trust that when
business prosperity returns we may receive the needed
help. It seems due to the benefactors who have already
contributed that we should push the building to completion at the earliest date possible.
Some of our Professors have continued what is known
as the University Extension work during the past winter,
at Detroit, Grand Rapids, East Saginaw, Toledo and
Cadillac. Professor Demmrnon gave courses on English
Literature, Professor Adamns on Problems of Transportation, Professor Vaughan on Hygiene and Sanitation, Professor Carhart on Electricity, and Professor Scott on Art.
Classes of good size were organized, and work was successfully accomplished. It is still too early to say whether
the popular interest in this work is to grow or to decline.
But it is already very clear that the draught which the
lecturing makes on the Professors, when added to their
regular work, is heavy, and if it is thought to be the duty
of the University to provide much instruction of this kind
as a part of its regular work, than we shall be obliged to
appoint, as some universities have appointed, men to give
most of their time and strength to lecturing to Extension
classes. If the means are available, something can be
said for doing so. But 1 am not convinced that in our
circumstances we are yet called to make special appointment of Extension lecturers. We may however, give the
subject further consideration.
In my last report I called attention to the importance
of giving more attention to the work of graduate students
in the Literary Department. The Faculty of that Department had then been for a year carefully considering how
we could increase the efficiency of our instruction of the
graduates. They decided to commit the direction of the




194


OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


work to an Administrative Council, composed of the
Senior Professors in the various branches taught. That
body has devoted much labor and thought to the best
mode of conducting the graduate work, and it is believed
that during the year considerable improvement has been
made. More careful supervision of the students has been
made practicable, and certain important principles in
respect to graduate study and the conditions of attaining
Master's and Doctor's degrees have been agreed upon.
It has been decided to discontinue giving degrees
for study in absentia. The object sought in offering Master's degrees to graduates who could not come here to
study has been accomplished in much smaller measure than
was expected. It was believed that it would stimulate
teachers especially to continue advanced work while engaged in their schools. Though to a certain extent this
proved to be a result, yet it has been found that the duties
of teachers in the high schools are so exacting that prolonged and sequent study of the grade required for the
attainment of a degree is practicable in fewer cases than
we had supposed. Of all of our graduates who have made
the altempt in absentia to win the Master's degree, only
about 15 per cent. have succeeded in accomplishing it.
The contrast between the work of most of these candidates and that of graduates in residence was very marked.
Therefore, while we regard it as possible for some to deserve the second degree by studies pursued in absentia,
we have reluctantly come to the conclusion that in the
interests of sound learning it is wise to ask all candidates
for it to reside here during their term  of study.  It
is believed that nearly every one who has the strength of
purpose needed to complete his studies while engaged in
teaching can find a way to return here for a.year.
The candidates for a Doctor's degree have always
been required to reside here for at least a year. They will
now be required to reside here at least two years, and are
given especially to understand that more time than that




OCTOBER MSBTTTG, 1893.


195


may be necessary. They are henceforth to have a reading knowledge of two modern languages when they are
received as candidates. Much stress will be laid on the
preparation of an acceptable dissertation, which must be
a positive contribution to scholarship or to scientific
knowledge. In thus establishing a high standard of work
for the attainment of the Doctorate, we are actiging in harmony with the better American Universities, which are
aiming to give significance and value to that degree.
It is certainly one of the functions of a university
like this to furnish the higher training which our graduate
school is attempting to provide. It must be understood
that it is costly to provide it. Much of the time of our
most experienced Professors must be given to a comparatively few students. Special means of illustration are
often required. E  peeially-are books needed. The Faculty are very gratefll that an unusually generous appropriation has been mande by the Board this year for the
purchase of books. It will enable us to fill many bad gaps
in our Library. If we can attract and teach a large body
of gifted and aspiring graduate students, their presence will
have a strong lifting and inspiring influence on the undergraduates, and their achievements in various spheres of
intellectual activity after they leave us will be of immense
service to the University. Perhaps nothing would benefit
the graduate school more just now than the establishment
of fellowships in it, such as several of the stronger American Universities now have. Friends of the University
who wish to aid it by gifts could do nothing more helpful
than to establish such fellowships, yielding, say, five hundred dollars a year each. It is matter of congratulation
that, although we have only one such fellowship, we have
been able to hold so large a number of graduates as we
have had in recent years.
The Literary Faculty have decided with your approbation to ask in 1895, and thereafter, for certain preparation in French or German or Latin of the students who




196


OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


are to enter on engineering course. The requirements
for admission to those courses omitted all foreign languages, mainly because in our section of the country for
many years a considerable number of men of mature
years, who had grown up in offices of engineers without
much opportunity for training in languages, came here to
prepare themselves for engineering work. But under the
stimulus given in recent years to engineering study,
especially to the preparation for mechanical and for electrical engineering, by far the larger number of matriculants in these courses are young men prepared in our
High Schools, where the languages are well taught. A
good knowledge of French and German is so helpful to
the accomplished engineer of our time that it is wise to
encourage the student to get a good reading knowledge of
these tongues early in his course.
The literary Faculty have been much engaged during
the year in the consideration of requirements for admission and for graduation. There is a wide-spread belief,
which is probably well founded, that in this country an
unnecessary amount of time is consumed in carrying the
student from his primary studies to graduation from college. Many of our best educational experts are convinced
that a better adjustment and distribution of studies in the
preparatory schools are possible, and are seeking improvement in the present scheme of work. It is thought by
some of our Professors that too many hours are required
for graduation in some of our courses. While the Faculty
are not yet prepared to make specific recommendations to
you onthese subjects, it is proper that you should know
that with a vigilant regard for the interests of the University and for the utmost efficiency of our system of secondary and higher education, they are carefully studying the
problems which are now engaging the attention of our
best guides in educational policy.
The increasing interest in the study of the Oriental
Languages has seemed to justify the appointment of a




OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


197


professor of those tongues. The riew interest throughout
the country in Biblical Literature and in the studies which
serve to illustrate it must have struck every one. Courses
of lectures on these subjects have attracted large assemblies. Our Students' Christian Association has had a large
voluntary attendance on its Biblical Institutes. It is
natural, therefore, that a new interest in Hebrew,/Assyrian
and Semitic studies generally should have manifested
itself in colleges and universities. It is not improbable
that the existence of the varionu guilds which churches in
this city have established may make a Professorship of
Oriental Languages especially useful here. One communion represented here is already making arrangements
to give a certain amount of theological instruction to
its candidates bor the ministry, who may matriculate
in the University. and   pursue such  linguistic and
philosophical studies as they desire. We cannot have
a theological department. But if the guilds or other
societies assemble theological students here for instruction, we may, with propriety, and with satisfaction, receive
such students to our classes.
The extension of the medical course to four years and
the establishment of a requirement for admission substantially like that for admission to the scientific course in
American colleges: have proved wise. These measures
have not caused the diminution in attendance which might
have been feared, while they have brought us a class of
students better prepared for medical study than we used
to receive. It was a gratifying fact that of the class which
might have been graduated in three years, the large number of 44 decided to remain and complete the four years'
course. The number of new students admitted was 12g,
a large class for us. These are proofs that the profession
and the students are quite ready for the steps which we
have taken to raise the standard of medical education.
Indeed for years we have taken no forward steps, which
has not been juistified by the results.




198


OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


Our instruction in medicine is every year taking on
more completely a genuinely scientific form. The laboratories furnish a larger and larger proportion of the teachiug. The special advanced or practical " courses established here last year before they had been introduced in
any other medical school, have proved of the greatest
service, and have attracted much attention. The representatives of European medical schools, who have visited
us this: year oni their way to the Columbian Exposition,
have warmly commended these courses. Oneof the most
distinguished French Professors declared to us that there
-was nothing like them elsewhere, and that he. should seek
to have them established in France on his return home.
The Hospital has bpen crowded to repletion with patients,.and -many have beenl quartered in private liouses. The
need of another w.ird is very pressing.
The institllti(o  of a preparatory course lor medical
studies in our- Literary Department is pr,,viig- helpful.
By judicious elections students may pursue the sciences
which they:especially need as a preparation for the medical course, and thus shorten by a year the time required
to complete both the work needed for the degree of Bachelor in the Literary Department, and that needed for the
degree of Doctor of Medicine.. Students are now coming
to us with the definite puirpose of completing both courses
on this plan.
The attendance upon' the Law School, though slightly
smaller than in the year preceding, was still larger than
that in any other Law   School in the country. The
demands upon the students for work have been made
more stringent than ever before. Plans have been
matured for the establishment of a practice court, in
which students shall be thoroughly, trained in all the
details of procedure, both by common law pleading and
by code pleading.
The. Homoeopathic Medical College has been somewhat disturbed by differences of opinion in the Faculty




OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


199


concerning the policy to be pursued in conducting it.
Some homoeopathic physicians both in the State and out
of it have been needlessly agitated by reports that the
regents were likely to adopt statutes injurious to it. Professors Wood and Gatchell have resigned their chairs to
accept appointments elsewhere. Professors Eggleston and
Hunt have been appointed in their places. It is superfluous to say that the Board are seeking, as they have in
years past sought, the best interests of the college.
Unhappily differences and parties in the profession embarrass the Board in some degree in achieving such success
for the college as they earnestly desire.
The School of Pharmacy continues to do its work with
its usual thoroughness. The number of its students is
somewhat falling off. This is due to three causes. First,
a considerable number of Pharmacy Schools have been
established, and the requirements for admission and for
graduation, in most of them, are much lower than ours.
Secondly, the temporary effect of the laws of Michigan
for examinations in pharmacy is to send many students to
the short-term schools. Thirdly, since in the Literary
Department we have offered a four years' course, leading
to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry, a certain number of the more aspiring students, who would
formerly have contented themselves with the Pharmacy
course, now prefer the longer and richer course.
The elevation of the standard of admission to the
Dental College and the extension of its course of instruction to three years, did not reduce the total number of
students, though the number in the Freshman class was
smaller by 31 than it was in the previous year. But with
our present accommodations and teaching force, it is perhaps well that the classes should not be much larger.
The wisdom of raising the standard of admission and of
graduation cannot be questioned.
We have continued the publication of the University
Record. It contains much matter of interest to those who




200


OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


wish to understand the details of the work of the University and the aims of its Faculties. It is a valuable
medium of communication with the schools. It is to be
regretted that more of our alumni do not subscribe for it.
We should be gratified if our friends would aid us in
enlarging its circulation.
The following data are taken from the Librariani's report:
Number of volumes in all the libraries, Sep., 1893 --- — 85,781
t" " unbound pamphlets       "     " ----- 16,000
(" "' maps                  i"   "   ---      800
Increase of volumes from Oct. 1, 1892, to Sept. 30, 1893 —__ —  3,434
t" "unbound pamphlets --- ----        ----      70
"   't maps —  -----   ------------------      74
Recorded use of books in reading rooms for the above twelve
months.    -------- -— _ _ —  -- --- -_ _  -131,139
Number of volumes drawn from the library by Professors
for the same time --- —-------------------- 4,800
135,939
We have received and placed in our Art Gallery the
final installment of the Randolph Rogers collection. It
was the cast of the Columbus Doors of the Capitol at
Washington. It was a happy coincidence that it arrived
in this year of the Columbian Exposition. It is, perhaps,
Rogers's most original and successful work. The entire
collection consists of ninety-six pieces and is the most
valuable gift, except the Lewis collection of works of art,
ever made by any person to this University. The new
catalogue of the Art collection, prepared with great care
by Professor D'Ooge, gives 205 titles in sculpture, 36 in
architectural ornaments and models of antique remains,
175 in paintings, and 1789 in gems and medallions. The
Lewis collection is not included in this enumeration.
We sent as full a University exhibit to the Columbian
Exposition at Chicago as the means at our disposal would
enable us to make. We aimed to show as far as possible
the methods and the results of our work in various departments. Of course, a large part of the best work of a




OCTOBER MEETING, 1892.


201


university cannot be exhibited in a visible form. But we
have reason to be satisfied with the attention which our
exhibit received and with the commendations which it
elicited. Our thanks are due to the Committee of the
Faculties who had it in charge, and who bestowed
so much labor on the preparation of it.* Professor Steere
with his assistants in the Museum prepared a representative collection of the fauna of the state for the Michigan
Building. The specimens in our Museum were supplemented by the purchase of such as we did not possess.
Representatives from the University took an important part in many of the congresses which were held in
connection with the Exposition, and on the Boards of
Judges.
In my last Report I called attention to the desirableness and importance of making an addition to the salaries
of our teachers. It was a source of gratification that the
Board found themselves able during this year to increase
somewhat the salaries of the Professors. I am sure they
regretted their inability to recognize in-the same way the
value of the services of the Assistant Professors and the
Instructors. It is to be hoped that at no distant day the
condition of our treasury may make this possible. Otherwise we shall be in danger of losing some of our more
promising young men, whom we much desire to retain.
Our scale of compensation is below that of the institutions
with which we are ranked.
We desire to acknowledge with gratitude the generous consideration which we received at the hands of the
Legislature last winter. With a hearty appreciation of
our needs they voted to raise the tax which is levied for
our support from one-twentieth to one-sixth of a mill.t
They require by the terms of the act that we shall maintain all the present Departments of the University, and


*The committee consisted of Professors Cooley, Prescott,
Greene, Steere, and Kelsey.
fSee Act in Appendix A.




202


OCTOBER MEETING. 1890.


that we shall not run in debt for buildings. On the present
valuation of the taxable property of the state, this tax will
yield $188,300 a year. It is, of course, understood that the
appropriation of this sum will obviate the necessity of our
going to the Legislature at each session for a number of
specific appropriations. But it will enable us to make
little, if any, enlargement of our work. Yet the bestowal
of aid in this way gives us ground to hope that we can
surely depend on it for an indefinite period in the future.
It promises stability in the support of the Institution so
that we can with reasonable safety plan for the future.
That is the reason why we are so much gratified at this
action of the Legislature. We believe also that we can
administer the affairs of the University more efficiently
and economically, now that the Board is allowed to
divide its funds between different Departments according
to its own judgment.
But we may well warn both the public and our own
Professors against the error of supposing that because of
the action of the Legislature the University is lifted above
the need of practicing the most rigorous economy. Our
total income still falls far short of that of Cornell University, Yale, Columbia or Harvard, although our students
outnumber all of these institutions except Harvard. In
the years immediately before us we greatly need enlargement of some of our old buildings and the erection of
some new ones. A great and prosperous University finds
it well nigh impossible to prevent an increase in its annual
outlay. The financial problems before us are therefore
still far from simple, if the development of the institution
is to go on.
It has seemed to me that now that the state has placed
the University on a firm basis of support, we may reasonably appeal to men of wealth in Michigan, our alumni and
other friends, to consider her claims upon them for general
help. There are many things which she has not that
would greatly enrich her life and multiply her beneficent




OCTOBER MEETING, 1890.


203


power. Scholarships, fellowships, endowed professorships,
a library fund, an art museum, hospital wards, a hospital
for sick students-these are a few of the many legitimate
objects on which benevolence could be bestowed with the
assurance of perpetual returns of blessings. Most of the
universities in the east, and some of them in the west,
including state universities, have been the recipients of
large and helpful gifts from   wealthy benefactors. May
we not hope that this University, which with comparatively modest means, has accomplished so much, will also
be remembered by those who can enlarge her usefulness
by needed endowments?
JAMES B. ANGELL.
Librarian Davis presented and read his annual report
of the condition and needs of the Library. The report
was ordered printed in the minutes, and 100 extra copies
ordered for exchange with other libraries.
LIBRARIAN'S REPORT, 1892-93.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN:-I have the honor to submit the following as my
report on the libraries of the University for the College year,
1892-93.
There were in all the libraries Sept. 30, 1893, 85,781 volumes,
16,000 unbound pamphlets, and 800 maps.
Of these there were in the General Library 68,781 volumes,
14,928 unbound pamphlets and 800 maps; in the Law Library 11,111
volumes; in the Medical Library 5,270 volumes, and 1,072 unbound
pamphlets; and in the Library of the Dental College, 619 volumes.
During the year 340 periodicals were regularly received, as follows: in the General Library, 225; in the Medical Library, 95; in
the Law Library, 7; and in the Library of the Dental College, 13.
Of those received in the General Library, 22 were furnished by the
Students' Lecture Association of the University.
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
The additions to the General Library during the year were
2,839 volumes, 294 pamphlets, and 74 maps. Of these 1,414 volumes and 50 pamphlets were bought; 1,048 volumes, 244 pamphlets
and 74 maps were given; and 377 volumes were the results of binding periodicals.




204


OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


The total amount of the bills certified to by me for purchases
for this library was $4,277.05. Of this sum, $3,061.97 were for books
and pamphlets: $765.78 were for subscriptions to pericdicals; and
$449.30 were for binding and mending.
Of the sum of $250.00 appropriated by the Board in June, 1892,
for the purchase of books for the department of Animal Morphology, there had been expended when my last report was made,
$122,83. Since then the balance of $127.17 has been consumed.
Through errors in estimating the cost of some of the books bought
with this money, the amount appropriated was exceeded to the
extent of $13.25. This sum has been charged to the later appropriation of $250, made for this department in June of this year for a
further purchase of books. In 1891 an appropriation of $250 was
made for the purchase of plates illustrative of Greek architecture
for the department of Greek. Of this appropriation, $159.11 have
been expended. Orders covering the balance have been out for a
long time, but it has been found impossible up to this to secure the
works ordered.
In October an appropriation of $500 from the current expense
fund was made for binding and mending. This was all expended,
ard is additional to the sums reported as paid from the Legislative
appropriation, for binding and mending.
GIFTs.-The number of volumes nresented falls but little short
of the number bought (presented, 1,048; bought, 1,414).
There are several reasons for this unusual proportion. The
Auditors and Treasureers of the various states were addressed for
copies of their reports for the use of students in Finance. Efforts
were made, by solicitation, to collect matter bearing on Penal, Reformatory, and Charitable. Institutions for the use of the advanced
classes in Ethics. These efforts met with a good degree of success.
Professor Hinsdale brought with him from Europe, and turned
over to the Library, a large quantity of matter relating to Education in Italy, Switzerland. Germany, France. and England.
The most important gift of the year was one from the French
government, which was moved to this action by representations
made to the government officials by Professor Hudson 'while in
Paris last winter. The gift consists of 65 volumes of the Documents inedits sur l'histoire de France. This is invaluable material
not only for the study of French history, but also for the study of
French language and literature.
Volumes 15, 16, and 17 of the Stevens Facsimiles were
received. This unique work is a gift of C. M. Burton, Esq., of
Detroit.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


205


We have been remembered, as heretofore, in the distribution
of duplicates which the Massachusetts Historical Society makes
through its librarian, Dr. S. A. Green.
Senator McMillan has sent advance copies of important reports
made to Congress, and to the Executive branch of the government.
Gifts have also been received from the State government at
Lansing, from Dr. L. G. Doane, of New York City, President Angell, Professors Demmon, Dewey, Hall, Spalding, Stanley, and
others.
We are in receipt, with more or less regularity, of periodical
publications devoted to science in general, or to some special science.
They are published by certain colleges and scientific societies of this
and other countries, and are sent to us with a request that we will
send in exchange our similar publications. We have no similar
publications. This fact I explain to my correspondents, with some
mortification, and ask that, since an exchange is at present impossible, we be favored with copies, although we cannot reciprocate.
In some instances the publications are sent regularly, in other instances occasional numbers are sent.
The idea in these publications is not only to encourage original
work and put it in permanent form, and give it publicity, but also
to secure for the institution, or society-publishing, other journals by
exchange. My impression is that when a balance is struck it is
found that the exchanges have been secured for a less expenditure
of money than would have been required for cash subscriptions.
At the same time some matter is secured that cannot be had in any
other way.
The thought will occur to one that with the establishment of
laboratories, the accumulation of scientific apparatus and books, and
the presence of trained instrnctors and enthusiastic students,
there might be something published here that would "increase
knowledge," give additional reputation to the University, and at
the same time give us in the way of exchanges much desirable literature at a less expense than would be incurred if bought with
money.
THE BOOK EXHIBIT.-In this connection I should refer to one
feature of the University exhibit at the World's Fair. I was desired
by the committee In charge of the exhibit, to make a collection of
the books written at various times by the teaching force of the University. The uncertainty that existed, until a late date, in regard to
an appropriation by the state for an exhibit, made the expenditure
of much money impossible, and the proposed display of books was
necessarily conditioned on the generosity of those who published




206


OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


them. An appeal was made to these gentlemen, and, with scarcely
an exception, they responded favorably and cordially: I take pleasure in naming the firms here as a slight acknowledgment of their
kind co-operation in our enterprise. They are:
Messrs. Allyn & Bacon, Boston.
The Anierican Book Co., Chicago.
Messrs. D. Appleton & Co., New York.
"   Callaghan & Co., Chicago.
Mr. George S. Davis, Detroit.
Messrs. Ginn & Co., Boston.
"   S. C. Griggs & Co., Chicago.
"   Gross & Delbridge, Chicago.
"   Harper Brothers, New York.
"   D. C. Heath & Co., Boston.
Henry Holt & Co., New York.
"   Houghton, Mifflin & Co., Boston.
The Inland Press, Ann Arbor.
Mr. William R. Jenkins, New York.
Messrs. Lea Brothers & Co., Philadelphia.
Tlie J. B. Lippincott Co., Philadelphia.
Messrs. Little, Brown & Co. Boston.
"   G. P. Putnam's Sons, Philadelphia.
"   Sheldon & Co., New York.
"   Silver, Burdett & Co., Boston.
"   D. Van Nostrand & Co., New York.
"   John Wiley & Sons, New York.
The collection consists of upwards of 200 volumes, and while
not complete, represents very fairly the contribution of the University to the literature of the country. No attempt wus made to collect exhaustively the fugitive writings of professors, but about 125
unbound pamphlets, complimentary copies from the writers to the
Library, were sent with the books to Chicago. A collection of the
writings of this character of the late Dr. Winchell, was made by his
brother, Professor N. H. Winchell, of Minneapolis, and presented
to the Library. Unfortunately this gift arrived too late to be included in the exhibit. The matter is bound in five octavo volumes and
includes the greater portion of Dr. Winchell's fugitive pieces.
The books on exhibition, on their return to the Library, will be
regarded as the nucleus of a permanent memorial collection, and
will not be for ordinary library use. Efforts will be made to secure
for this collection whatever may now be lacking, of books and
pamphlets already published, and also, to secure for it what may
be produced in the future.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


207


USE OF THE LIBRARY.-The recorded use of the Libray was as
follows:
From Oct. 1, 1892 to June 30, 1893 -----  -125,630 volumes
From July 1, to Sept. 30, 1893 (vacation) ----  5,505  "
Drawn by Professors during the college year and vacation    - — ^- ------          -   4,800   "
Total- --    - -- -- -- -- -- -- -— 135,935      (
This is less than the record of the previous year by 3,518 volumes. It must not be understood, however, that there haA been a
falling off in the use of the Library. The reason for the difference
is found in the fact that very many more books than ever before
were placed outside of the delivery desk for use without the ordinary receipt which constitutes the record.
The average number of readers daily in the General Reading
Room was 120, of whom 50 were women.
The number of admissions to the Book Room, under the rule
given in previous reports, was 73.
During the two semesters, 421 students were admitted to the
Seminary Rooms: 169 to the East Room for the study of History,
Political Economy, Philosophy, Education, and Literary Criticism;
and to the West Room, 252 for the study of English, French and
German literature, and Greek and Latin literature and art.
PRESENT CONDITION OF THE LIBRARY.-During this year, as during the year covered by the previous report, and for the same reason, it was found necessary to mend, or rebind, a large number of
volumes. The expense of this was considerable, but it is an
expense that must be incurred if books are used.
In the previous report I also described a new method (to us) of
disposing of pamphlets, that we had adopted-which was to bind
them. This method has proved very satisfactory and has been continued. During the year under consideration, several hundreds
were bound, either singly or in volumes, after they had been classified. During the vacation the books were all dusted and the shelves
washed.
The assistant in charge of circulation reported 18 volumes
missing, Oct. 1. Since that date six of these have been found. It
is probable that a large part of the remaining 12 volumes will be
found.
On the whole, I am justified in reporting the condition of the
Library as good.
THE LIBRARY FORCE. —The assistants, Mr. Hopkins, Mr. Jor



208


OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


dan, and Mr. Finney, remain in the performance of the duties discharged by them last year.
About the beginning of the second semester of last year a
petition signed by a large number of students was received, asking
that the Library be opened for readers at 8 o'clock A. M. Inasmuch
as the granting of this petition would involve an expenditure of
money, it was referred to your honorable body by the Library committee of the Faculty. In so referring it the committee recommended that the Library be opened from 8:15, and estimated the cost
for the additional time at $150.00. This recommdation of the committee was adopted and $150.00 allowed for compensation for the
extra time.
In making the appointments for desk attendants for the new
year, it was found desirable, in order to provide for the additional
time, and to adjust the additional compensation, to substitute a new
scheme of service for the old one. Instead of two persons serving
six hours daily at the rate of $225.00 per annum, and one person for
four hours daily at the rate of $150.00 per annum, four persons were
appointed to serve each four hours daily at $175 00 per annum. The
persons appointed are H. B. Gammon, E. B. Escott, Herbert Voorhees, and O. E. Tiffany. In the East Seminary Room Mr. L. G.
Wllitehead succeeds Mr. A. H. Veysey, and in the West Room Mr.
C. B. Allen is succeeded, for the first semester, by Mr. H. A. Williams.
Tile Library is now open to readers 1214 hours daily.
THE WORK OF THE YEAR.-Not very much was accomplished
beyond the routine work. The transcription of the old subject
index upon smaller cards for arrangement in the new catalogue case
was carried so far that we have been able to dispense with the public use of the old case, and remove it to the cataloguing room for use
as an official catalogue. This work of transcription has proceeded
the more slowly for the reason that not much time could be devoted
to it, and, also, because each reference was carefully verified and
necessary corrections made.
Miss Cecilia W. Kueffner, a student in the University, being
desirous of practice in cataloguing, was assigned to work on the
books of the Dorsch Library, of which there was only a brief alphabetical list. A catalogue of authors was completed by her, but not
one of subjects.
Much of my own time is occupied with the correspondence,
which grows in extent constantly.
THE NEEDS OF THE LIBRARY.-Without doubt the topic that
should be discussed most fully in this report is The needs of the




OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


209


Library, and yet it is the one I approach with the most hesitation.
Happily I can be silent in regard to one need that has called for
remark in former reports. The appropriation for the purchase of
books for 1893 is a.generous one, and the accessions to the Library
for 1893-94 will be more numerous, and of a more important nature,
than have been the accessions of any previous year of its existence.
The first need that I will specify is for space- space for books
and space for the use of books-especially for the use of books. We
can dispose of our books-not conveniently, but by temporary concontrivances-for probably two years more.
For space for the use of books by readers we have the General
Reading Room, and the two Seminary Rooms (so-called). The
Reading Room is still adequate for what may be called the general
reading, though not unfrequently it is crowded. But the space for
advanced and graduate students has never been adlequate-never
has afforded accommodation for the whole number requiring it.
The only remedy for the trouble is the enlargement of the building,
or the removal of the Art Collection. It is the earnest desire, both
of those using, and of those admfnistering, the Library, that this
matter should have the early attention of the Board. Another need
of the Library is more force, especially for the work of cataloguing.
Our catalogue, as it now is,' is the work of many years and many
hands. The greater number, engaged in making it were inexperienced persons and their terms of service were too short to acquire
much skill. Since the engagement of Mr. Jordan as a cataloguer,
the work has been systematically done as far as he has been able to
do it. But it has been all that he could do to dispose of the annual
accessions. The revision of the old work could not be undertaken.
There is only a "finding list " for the books of the McMillan
Shakespeare Library. It is important that it should be catalogued
correctly, carefully, and soon. It was only by the volunteer work
of Miss Kueffner that the Dorsch Library was catalogued. Her work
could not be revised except by neglecting the regular routine work,
and, consequently, that yet remains to be done.
I have been oppressed by this state of things for quite a long
time, and I have called attention to it in former reports; but because
I have desired to keep down the cost of administration, and because
I hoped that with the additions that have from time to time been
made to the force,we might at length accomplish some of these tiings
-for these reasons I have not been so importunate as I should have
been. The additions to the force have not been in proportion to the
increase of the work. The routine work of the year just past was a




210


OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


harder task for the force performing it, than was the work of ten
years ago, for the force of that time.
But we must now look forward to a far greater than the usual
annual increase of work. The accessions by purchase, will be twice
as great as ever before. I referred to the gathering of certain
reports for the use of graduate students last year. This work is to
bo carried on on a larger scale, and in other directions. To solicit
these reports, to acknowledge their receipt, to catalogue them and
put them into shape for convenient and safe use, occupies a vast
deal of time. It is the hardest of all material to " lick into shape."
The application for an additional cataloguer made in June
arose out of a feeling on the part of the professors desiring these
reports, that the collection and dispositon of them was of itself
sufficient to occupy the attention of one man.
The Board will remember that the sum asked for in June
($800.00), for providing additional help, was granted if the Library
committee of the Faculty would sanction the payment of that sum
out of the appropriation for the purchase of books. This sanction
the committee are not willing to givie, feeling that the requisitions
that have been made upon them by members of the Faculty for
needed books, will not admit of the alienation of any portion of
the funds from its original purpose-the purchase of books.
I therefore return to the subject of more help again, and
respectfully ask that such a sum (not less than $300.00) as you may
be able to devote to the object, be appropriated for use under the
direction of the Library committee, for the year 1893-94.
THE OTHER LIBRARIES.
THE MEDICAL LIBRARY.-The additions to the Medical Library were 181 volumes and 2 unbound pamphlets. Of these, 17 volumes were bought; 52 volumes and 2 pamphlets were presented
and 112 volumes were the results of binding periodicals.
The total of bills certified to by me for thisLibrary was $481.85,
nearly all of which was for subscriptions to periodicals.
With the establishment of laboratories and the supplementing
of the lecture courses by practical work in them, has come a necessity for literatnre of a different nature from that which constitutes
the bulk of the Medical Library. Those publications that record the
work of other laboratories are now essential. For the last two
years the money for the purchase of medical books has been largely
applied in this direction; and the orders for the year upon which we
have just entered are all of that nature. For several years the medical professors have been obliged to borrow from other libraries, chief



OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


211


ly from the Library of the Surgeon General's Office at Washington.
The rule of this library that places its great resources at the disposal
of the public, whenever financial responsibility is assumed, is one that
is both wise and liberal. It entails, however upon the borrower of
many books-in the cost of transportation-no inconsiderable expense. Appropriations forthe purchase of medical books should be
as generous as possible until this necessity of borrowing shall no
longer exist.
A desire has been expressed by a number of medical professors
that the catalogue of medical books should be arranged separately.
Tne cards are now arranged with the cards of the catalogue of the
General Library-all in one alphabet. The only expense attending
a separate arrangement will be the cost of a case for the cards.
This cost, it is estimated, need not exceed $40.00. I recommend the
construction of such a case. By the separation more room will be
gained for consulting the cards, and the present case will have
needed relief.
The additions to the Law Library were 367 volumes, and to the
Library of the Dental College, 47 volumes.
There is one matter on which some legislation by the Board is
becoming quite necessary. It is to settle to what extent books may
be drawn from the libraries for use in the laboratories, and whether
they shall be retained there permanently. It is a matter involving
a great many interests, and should not be settled without a consideration of all of its aspects. I will not take the time of the Board
now with any statements of facts, but will respectfully ask for an
opportunity to make such statements to the members of the Library
Committee of the Board at as early an opportunity as possible.
Very respectfully submitted,
RAYMOND C. DAVIS,
Oct. 18, 1893.                             Librarian.
Treasurer Soule presented and read his annual report
of the condition of the finances of the University which
was approved, and ordered printed with the President's
report, and also in the proceedings of the Board.
TREASURER'S REPORT.
To the Finance Committee, Board of Regents, University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN: Herewith I submit my annual report for the year ending
June 30th, 1893.           Respectfully,
H. SOULE, TREASURER.
RECEIPTS.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892............. $ 13,949.04




212                OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.
From State Treasurer, Account of Current Expenses. $109,363 79
"    "      "      "      " Special Appropriations 71,700 75
From City of Ann Arbor, Gift for Building Hospitals.25,000 00
From Miscellaneous Sources..........     142,688 54 348,753 08
$362,702 12
Balance overdrawn, June 30th, 1393.........              13,24 56
$375,966 68
DISBURSEMENTS.
From General Fund, Current Expense Account... $281,558 10
From Special Fund, Legislative Appropriations...  91,428 58 375,986 68
GENERAL FUND.
RECEIPTS TO THE GEiJERAL FUND.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892.........             $ 2,390 60
From State Treasurer, Account 1-20 Mill Tax.... $ 70,625 00
"    "      "       "    University Interest.  38,738 79
"  City of Ann Arbor, for Hospital Building...  25,000 00
"  Interest on Deposit............            2,839 04
"  University Record.............            100 80
"  University Hospital............             3,505 50
"  Homocepathic Hospital.........              287 30
"  Miscellaneous Sources...........            1,004 00
"  Dental Supplies....6,065 31
"  Anatomical Supplies...........               671 04
Medical Department....... $ 13,060 00
"  Chemical    ".......    10,850 92
Literary    ".......     43,630 00
"Law         ".......         26,950 00
"  Dental      ".......  7,275 00
"  Homoeopathic.......         2,620 00
'  Pharmacy    ".......          3,445 00
"  Zoology     "......   407 00
' Key Deposits"......  262 50
"  Mechanical ".......  1,59400
"  Hygeine     ".......     1,605 37
Botany       ".......           559 00
"  Pathology   ".......           990 00
"Electric Engineering Department.     462 00
"  General Chemistry.      57270
"Electro therapeutics   ".     944 41
"  Practical Anatomy.    2,55500
"  Histology.      897 00
"  X Medical.    1,815 00
"  Physiology.      82 00
"  Photography            ".      34 00
"  Diploma..........                7,568 50  128,179 40  277,016 18
Students' Fees, Total.........      $128,179 40
Refunded...........                    5,821 84
Net...............  $122,357 56




OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


213


Amount received.....................       279,406 78
Balance overdrawn, June 30th 1893.............   22,624 71
$302,030 49
DISBURSEMENTS FROM THE GENERAL FUND.
General Pay Roll of Officers, Professors, and Employees $202,099 87
Vouchers Paid, Account Students' Fees Refunded..  5,821 84


cc cc ct
cc cc cc
cc cc
cc cc cc
cc cc cc
cc cc cc
cc cc cc
cc cc cc
cc cc cc
cc cc
cc cc
cc cc cc
cc cc cc
cc cc cc
cc cc cc
cc cc cc
cc cc (1


Fuel and Lights...
General Library...
Museum....
Civil Egineering..
Chemical Laboratory
Histological  "..
Botanical     ".
Physical..
Physiological "...
Mechanical..
Zoological    ".
Pathological  ".
Hygienic      ".
Anatomical...
General Chemistry Laboratory
Electro-therapeutics  "
Materia Medica       "


15,044 42
1,097 00
534 31
469 36
10,723 47
7254
451 18
139 12
399 34
1,265 33
602 72
507 11
1,660 09
3,484 36
1,082 23
369 90
887 80
464 44
1,240 44
3,204 65
2,164 48
6,538 87
13,197 10
270 48
2,048 30
169 48
263 00
149 47
1,609 78
953 87
192 45
361 08
2,118 19
20,473 39  302,031 49


Is    cc"  "     Astronomical Observatory
i"    I"   i"    Postage....
"      "    "    Dental Supplies...
"  "        "    Calendar....
" "         "    Contingent....
c"     "    ":Construction.......
"      "    "    School Inspection 
"      "    "    Dental College..
c"     "    "    Advertising Medical Dept.
",~ "                I   " " Law    "
i"     "    "        "     Pharmacy" 
"      "    "    Miscellaneous Printing..
<"       " "     Enlargem't of Dental B'ld'g.
c"     "    "    Psychology...
l"     "    "    Publishing University Record
"      "-   "    University Hospital 
Transferred to overdrawn special accounts.....


SPECIAL FUND ACCOUNTS.
HOMCEOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892........   $ 5,01572
From State Treasurer..............           6,00000 $ 11,015 72


Disbursements.
Paid Salaries of Professors and Employees..
Paid Vouchers for Expenses.....
Balance in Treasury, June 3Cth, 1893.....


6,165 97
2,625 66
2,224,09


11,015 72




214                OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.
HOM(EOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE AND HOSPITAL.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892,.........  168 91
From State Treasurer.........    8,200 00
From General Fund (transfer)..........         6,095 49  14,464 40
Disbursements.
Paid Salaries of Professors and Employees.....  5,935 00
Paid Vouchers for Expenses...........      8,529 40  14,464 40
GENERAL LIBRARY.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer..............              7,500 00
From Earnings.................                      75
From Balance overdrawn............               15 82  7,516 57
Disbursements.
Balance overdrawn, July 1st, 1892.........     283 49
Paid Vouchers for Expenses...........          7,233 08  7,516 57
UN VERSITY HOSPITAL.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer..............             8,000 00
From Transfer from General Fund........        4,364 60  12,364 60
Disbursements.
Balance overdrawn July 1st, 1892.........       163 38
Paid Vouchers for Expenses..........         8,228 84
Paid Salaries Resident Physicians and Employees.  3,972 38  12,364 60
CONTINGENT.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892.........    3,060 87
From State Treasurer..............              12,500 00  15,560 87
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses..........            11,784 85
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1893........   3,776 02  15,560 87
REPAIRS.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892........    1,182 56
From State Treasurer..............              5,000 00  6,182 56
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses..........      6,019 69
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1893.......    162 87  6,182 56
PHYSICAL LABORATORY.
Receipts.


From  State Treasurer.............


3,000 00   3,000 00




OCTOBER MEETING, 1S93.                      215
Disbursements.
Balance overdrawn, July 1st, 1892.........        18312
Paid Vouchers for Expenses...........            1,406 57
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1893........     1,410 81  3,000 00
DENTAI SURGERY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892.....       2,87812
From State Treasurer..............               7,000 00  9,878 12
Disbursements.
Paid Salaries of Professors and Employees.....  8,350 00
Paid Vouchers for Expenses...    ~......       1,526 19
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1893........       193    9,87812
REMOVAL OF ROGERS' GIFTS.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892.........        72 07
From General Fund (transfer)..........             2 68     74 75
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses...........             74 75     74 75
EQUIPMENT OF ENGINEERING LABORATORY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892........      1,68103  1,68103
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses...........            1,378 43
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1893......     302 60  1,681 03
CIVIL ENGINEERING.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892.........       68165    68165
Disbursements,
Paid Vouchers for Expenses...........             582 25
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1893........        99 40   681 65
BOTANICAL AND ZOOLOGICAL LABORATORIES.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892.........      522 53   522 53
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses...........             328 28
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1892........       194 25   522 53
INSURANCE.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892........    1,209 00
From State Treasurer..............               2,00000   3,209 00
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses............            2,024 50
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1893........     1,184 50  3,209 00
3




216                OCTOBER MEETING, 1s93.
Receipts.
ENLARGEMENT AND ALTERATION OF DENTAL BUILDING.
From General Fund.(transfer).........     7,002 31  7,002'31
Disbursements.
Balance overdrawn, July 1st, 1892.......      1,471 42
Paid Vouchers for Expenses...........            5,530 89  7,002 31
ENLARGEMENT AND ALTEIRATION OF LAW BUILDING.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer..............              12,500 00
From General Fund (transfer)..........          2,995 98  15,495 98
Disbursements.
Balance overdrawn July 1st, 1892.........        2,76413
Paid Vouchers for Expenses...........           12,731 85  15,495 98
SPECIAL FUND.
Balances in the Treasury, June 30th, 1893.
Homeopathic Medical College..........            2,224 09
Contingent.................      3,776 02
Repairs....................    162 87
Physical Laboratory.................             1,41031
Dental College.................        1 93
Equipment Engineering Laboratory........           302 60
Civil Engineering................                   99 40
'Botanical and Zoological Laboratories.......     194 25
Insurance....................         1,184 50  9,355 97
Deduct for General Library.overdrawn.......                 15 82
Amounts to the credit of Special Funds......              9,340 15
AFFAIRS OF THE HOSPITALS.
The Superintendent of the Hospitals reports to the Auditing Board the
following as all the business done by him during the year, and to June 30th,
1893, inclusive, which embraces only the running expenses of the Hospitals
and does not include the maintainance or permanent expenses, which are met
by special appropriations of the legislature.
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL.
This Hospital was opened during the summer months-July, August, and
September-of this year and with the following results:
Receipts in' amount.............               2,870 40
Disbursements for extra Salaries.........         534 00
"t      " Maintainance.........           4,156 90
Deficiency.................              1,820'50
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL.
Receipts.
From Collections and Earnings-Oct. to June -inclusive      21,423 88
Disbursements.
Amount refunded by Supt. Joseph Clark......       6,830 51
" Expenses Paid        "......  10,821 74
"    Cash to Treasurer  "    "......  3,505 50
(    Due to Treasurer  "     "......         26613  21,42388




OCTOBER MEETING, 193.2 217
HOM(EOPATHIC HOSPITAL.
Receipts.
From Collections and Earnings...........                   5,813823
Disbursements.
Amount refdnded by Supt. Joseph Clark.....      2,309 28
Expenses Paid      "     "......         4,205 60
Deficiency................                    701 65
6,514 88  6,514 88
GIFTS.
Under this head are included gifts which the Regents have received from
time to time from benefactors for general purposes, or for stated special purposes,, The account is as follows:
PHILO PARSONS FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892.......         98 47
Interest.to June 30th, 1893.............             369    10216
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers.................                      23 21
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1893........       78 95   10216
MARY JANE PORTER FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892.........     603 58
Interest to June 30th, 1893............            24 89   628 47
Disbursements.
None
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1893........               628 47
G(ETHE FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892.........       33015
Interest to June 30th, 1893.............            1277    34292
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers.................                      32 70
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1893........       310 22   342 92
ELISHA JONES CLASSICAL FELLOWSHIP.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892.........        191
Mrs. Elisha Jones................                  50000
Interest to June 30th, 1893............           27    50218
Disbursements.
To C. L. Meader (holder of Fellowship).......      50000
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1893........     218     502 18
ANN ARBOR CITY FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892.........      8,13451
City Payment on Bonds.............               3,000 00
City Interest on Bonds..............               720 00
Bank Interest on Deposit...............           28503:. 12,1.3954




218              OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.
Disbursements.
Refunded to the General University in Account for
Payments Advanced.............           10,000 00
Transferred to the Contingent Gift Account for
Bank Interests Earned............        2,139 54  12,139 54
CONTINGENT.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892.........  528 96
Transfer from City Fund.............         2,139 54
Interest to June 30th, 1893.............      153 86  2,822 36
Disbursements.
None
Balance in Treasury to June 30th, 1893.......        2,822 36
GYMNASIUM FUND.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892........  11,187 74
Donations...................   26,447 24
Interest to June 30th, 1893............      280 84  37,915 82
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses...........      32,523 45
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1893........  5,392 37  37,915 82
WOMAN'S GYMNASIUM.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1892.........  1,044 89
Donations..................                  282 25
Interest to June 30th, 1893............      54 79  1,38193
Disbursements.
None
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1893........         1,381 93
ART FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1st, 1893.........  80 82
Donations..................      15 00
Interest...................     1 79   97 61
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses...........        8148
Balance in Treasury, June 30th, 1893........   1613    97 61
On motion of Regent Cocker, the sum of $1,283.91 was
appropriated for the purpose of covering a deficit of that
amount in the current expenses of the University Hospital
during the summer months, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the salary of Dr. W. F.
Breakey, Lecturer on Dermatology in the Department of




OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


219


Medicine and Surgery, was increased from $300 to $500 by
the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer moved that the title of A. S. Warthin,
M. D., Ph. D.. be Demonstrator of Clinical Medicine in the
Department of Medicine and Surgery, and that the title
of Wm. Blair, M. D., who was appointed as assistant at a
previous meeting, be Instructor in Electro-Therapeutics;
also, that Augustus W. Reed, M. D., be reappointed
House Surgeon in University Hospital for one year at a
salary of $500; and that Harry W. Hall, M. D., be appointed Assistant House Surgeon for one year, and as
compensation for his services the Superintendent shall
furnish him a room and board in the Hospital.
The motion of Regent Kiefer was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Will H. Van Deman was
appointed Assistant in Operative and Clinical Dentistry
for one year at a salary of $500, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
On the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and on motion
of Regent Whitman, degrees were conferred upon the following persons as indicated:
James Edward Ferris, Bachelor of Philosophy.
Cyrenius Adelbert Newcomb, Bachelor of Letters.
Edward Dana Wickes, Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering.
Elizabeth Cooke, Bachelor of Science.
Humphrey Snell Gray, Bachelor of Arts.
On motion of Regent Whitman, Professor M. L.




220


OCTOBER SESSION, 1893.


D'Ooge was elected Dean of the Department of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, at a salary of $300, by the following
vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist was conferred upon Fred Newton Chapel
and upon Charles Elsworth Jackson.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the degree of M. D. was
conferred upon Frank Dean Patterson, as recommended
by the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Board adjourned
to 2:30 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2:30 p. M.
The Executive Committee made the following report,
which was adopted by the full vote of the Board:
ANN ARBOR, October 18, 1893.
The Executive Committee beg leave to report as follows:
Mr. Sober having resigned his instructorship in Latin soon
after the year began, the Executive Committee, on the recommendation of the Professors of Greek and Latin, appointed Henry A.
Sanders, A. B., to the vacant position for the current year at the
salary of $900.
JAMES B. ANGELL,
CHAS. R. WHITMAN,
W. J. COCKER.
Regent Kiefer presented and read a communication
from Dr. E. E. Hagler, late Demonstrator of Ophthalmology in this University, claiming $49, as due him for services rendered as such Demonstrator during the last year.
He then submitted the following resolution, which was
adopted unanimously:
WHEREAS, According to a resolution passed May 18, 1892, (page




OCTOBER MEETING, P893.


221


30 of the printed Proceedings of the'Board), establishing six new
courses of practical work for Junior students in the Department of
Medicine and Surgery, the expenses of such courses were to be paid
first from the fees paid by students for said courses, and the
remainder to be divided between the Demonstrators, as full compensation for their services; and,
WHEREAS, The receipts for said courses have been disposed of
in strict accordance with the resolution establishing them; therefore,
Resolved, That the Secretary be instructed to advise Dr. Hagler
that the Board do not feel obligated to make additional compensation for such service.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the request of Junior
students in the Department of Medicine and Surgery, asking. that the fees for the practical courses in that Department be reduced to $5, was denied.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the Board went into
executive session.
On motion of Regent Whitman, Clarence L. Meader,
A. B., was appointed Instructor in Latin for one year, at a
salary of $900, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
The President presented and read the resignation of
Edwin F. Conely, Professor of Law in the Law Department, which was, on motion, accepted.
Regent Barbour moved that Alexis C. Angell, A. B.,
LL.B., of Detroit, be appointed Professor of Law, at a
salary of $1,000.
A call vote being taken on this motion resulted as
follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer moved that Otto Kirchner, of Detroit,
be appointed Professor of Law at a salary of $1,000.




222


OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


Regent Cook moved to lay the motion on the table
until the next meeting of the Board, which motion did not
receive a second, and a vote was then taken on Regent
Kiefer's motion, resulting as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, and
Cocker.
Nays-Regent Cook.
On motion of Regent Barbour, it was ordered that
when the two Professors just appointed have accepted,
the Faculty shall then redistribute the work in the Department, and proceed to organize a Practice Court.
On motion of Regent Whitman, an appropriation of
$89.60 was made for the purpose of connecting the following Laboratories with the electric wires of the city for
motive power:
The Laboratories of Psychology, Chemistry, Physiology,
Electro Therapeutics and Materia Medica.
The vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the superintendent of
buildings was instructed to examine the roof of the
Museum building, and at the next meeting of the Board
submit a careful estimate of the cost of putting the same
in good repair.
Professor M. E. Cooley appeared before the Board and
presented the needs of the Laboratory of Mechanical
Engineering.
Regent Barbour moved that the salary of J. H. Vance
Law Librarian, be increased from $900 to $1200; that the
request of Professor Freer for an appropriation of $147
for the purchase of two sets of balances for use in the
Laboratory of General Chemistry, be referred to the Pharmaceutical Committee with power; and that the Secretary




OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


223


be authorized to pay Spier & Rohns, architects of the
Recitation building, two per cent. on the contract price.
The vote on Regent Barbour's motion was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Cook, the salary of Professor H.
Gibbes was made $2500, from October 1, 1893, by the fol.
lowing vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Cocker moved that the salaries of Professor
John Dewey and Professor F. W. Kelsey be made $2700
each, from October 1, 1893.
The vote on this motion was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Thomas W. Hughes,
LL. M. and John W., Dwyer, LL. B., were appointed
Quiz Masters in the Law Department, for one year, at a
salary of $250 each, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Barbour moved that Judge T. M. Cooley be
allowed $100 for lectures delivered in the Law Department
during last year. The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes —Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
Mr. Powell, agent for the Johnson system of Heat
Regulating Appliances, appeared before the Board, and
urged the adoption of that system in connection with the




224


OCTOBER MEETING, 1893.


new Recitation building. The matter was referred to the
Medical Committee for consideration.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the salary of Elias
F. Johnson, B. S., LL. M., Instructor in Law, was increased
from $600 to $1000, as follows:
Ayes-Regents Keifer, Whitman, Hebard, Barbour, Cocker,
and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Dr. A. B. Prescott was
re-elected Dean of the Faculty of the School of Pharmacy.
Regent Kiefer, Chairman of the Medical Committee to
whom were referred the differences between the Faculty
of the Dental Department and Dr. Dorrance, reported
that by a readjustment of the work all questions at issue
had been amicably settled.
On motion, the Board adjourned to November 15th.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




NOVEMBER MEETING.
1893.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,  t
ANN ARBOR, NOV. 17, 1893. 
The Board assembled in the room of the President
at 10 A. M.
Present-Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker
and Cook.
Absent-Regents Whitman, Hebard, and Howard.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the proceedings from
June 26th to the present time were approved as printed.
Sundry communications which had reached the President were, on motion, placed in the hands of appropriate
committees of the Board.
Mr. Powell, agent of the Johnson Electric Service
Company, was present and explained their system of controlling heat in recitation rooms, whereupon Regent
Barbour submitted the following resolution, which was
adopted:
Resolved, That Professors Cooley and Carhart be requested to
examine the Johnson Electric Service Company's process of heatsaving and regulating at the Company's expense, and that if these
Professors approve, the Company be permitted to equip some one
building or portion of some one building, to be designated by the
Committee on Buildings and Grounds, on condition that all expenses be borne by the Company, and that if the work and result
be satisfactory, the work shall be paid for at a price to be agreed
upon between the Company and the University, and on their agreement to remove the apparatus and replace pipes, registers, and
radiators in good order without expense to the University if not
satisfactory.




226


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1893.


Dr. A. Kent Hale, Receiver of the Ann Arbor Water
Company, appeared before the Board and stated that his
company desired to annul the contract existing between
the Ann Arbor Water Company and the Regents of the
University, and that the company be allowed'to meter the
water at a fixed rate per thousand gallons.
The Board expressed their satisfaction with the present contract, but referred the matter to the Committee on
Buildings and Grounds.
Mr. John P: Clegg, the expert accountant employed
by the Board to examine and verify the accounts and
business of the University for the past year, was presenf,
and made his report, which showed that the books were
correct and well kept, and there was no evidence of irregularities in any of the business details. He thought that
the system of accounting was excellent, and that fidelity
and vigilance seemed to be the rule with those in charge
of the business.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the report was accepted
and placed on file.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution
which was adopted:
Resolved, That full Professors take precedence in rank of Junior
Professors, and that Junior Professors be included in the University
Senate.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted:
Resolved, That an annual fee of ten dollars be collected in
1894-5 and thereafter from candidates for advanced degrees studying
in absentia.
The following resolution, introduced by Regent
Cocker, was adopted:
Resolved, That Course 2 in Rhetoric be increased from 2 to 3
hours.
On motion, the Board adjourned to 2 o'clock P. M.




NOVEMBER SESSION, 1893.


227


AFTERNOON SESSION.
Dr. Vaughan asked the Board to appropriate $1,000
for the purchase of microscopes for use in the Hygienic
Laboratory.
Regent Butterfield moved that owing to the financial
conditions of the Board at the present time, the request of
Dr. Vaughan be denied.
A call vote was taken, which resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Barbour, and Cook.
Nays-Regent Kiefer. Regent Cocker not voting.
The following communication from the Dean of the
Department of Medicine and Surgery was read by Regent
Kiefer:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Gentlemen: —There are six nurses in the training school who
will finish' the course soon. Will you please authorize the Medical
Faculty with Dr. Angell and Mr. Wade to make suitable arrangements for the graduation of these nurses.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the matter was referred
to the Medical Faculty, President Angell, and the Secretary as recommended by the Dean.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Mr. Henry H. Lucas was
appointed dispensing clerk in the Laboratory of ElectroTherapeutics, in place of E. L. Niskern, who desires to be
relieved from the work.
Regent Kiefer moved that the following appointments
be made in the Homoeopathic Medical College:
John A. Lenfesty, M. D., to oe House Surgeon, for the first
semester, at a Salary of $175.
Ernest A. Clark, M. D., Assistant to the Professor of Surgery,
for one year, at a salary of $100.
Frank Rich, to be Assistant to the Professor of Ophthalmology
and Otology, for one year, at a salary of $100.
Francis L. Hoffman, M. D.,'to be Assistant to the Professor of
Theory and Practice, for one year, and also Assistant to the Professor of Materia Medica, for one year, at a salary of $200.
Nora M. Dakin, M. D., to be Assistant to -the Professor of




228


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1893.


Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children, for one year, at a
salary of $100.
The vote on Regent Kiefer's motion resulted as folfollows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays —None.
A communication was received from the Dental Faculty asking the Board to establish the degree of Doctor of
Dental Science in that Department.
On motion of Regent Kiefer the matter was referred
back to the Faculty with a request that they formulate
a prescribed course of study to be pursued by the candidate for the second degree, and submit the same to the
next meeting of the Board.
Regent Butterfield, Chairman of the Committee on
Law Department, moved that Judge Henry H. Swan,
A. M., be appointed lecturer on Admiralty Law, for one
year, in place of Justice Henry B. Brown, resigned, at a
salary of $350; also that the degree of Bachelor of Laws
be conferred upon John Artemus Wood,,as recommended
by the Faculty of the Law Department; also that the
Secretary be authorized to make the following repairs in
the Law building, namely, to furnish Room 10 for the use
of the Professors, and one other room for Practice Court
work. Also to put in more shelving on the south side of
the Library room, aud to expend a sum not exceeding $25
in repairing the Webster Society room.
The vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Butterfield submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted unanimously:
Resolved, That in the opinion of the Board, the publication of
lectures delivered or to be delivered in the Law Department of this
University is injurious to the interest of that Department and its
students, and we approve of the efforts of the different Professors




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1893.


229


whose lectures have been so published for the prevention of their
further publication.
Regent Butterfield moved that the Executive Committee be authorized to appoint a clerk for the Practice
Court in the Law Department, for one year, at a salary
not exceeding $100.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays —None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the Degree of Doctor of
Dental Surgery was coif'erred upon George Hutchinson
Mann, in accordance with the recommendations of the
Dental Faculty.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the Secretary was
authorized to pay William Biggs, Contractor, the balance
due him on the contract for building the new Hospitals,
with interest at 6 per cent. from the date of settlement.
On motion of Regent Barbour, an appropriation of
$160 was made for the purchase of a lathe for the use of
the steam engineer, by the following vote:
Ayes —Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
On motion, the Board adjourned to December 22d.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




DECEMBER MEETING.
189.3.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,    f
ANN ARBOR, December 20, 1893.
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, and Cook.
Absent-Regents Hebard and Howard.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
Sundry papers which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the
Board.
A communication from the Library Committee, asking the Board to divide the Library money for 1894 between the several Libraries, was laid on the table for the
present.
Regent Barbour moved that the Library Committee be
allowed to expend in 1894 any part of the money appropriated for the purchase of books in 1893 which remains
in their hands unused. Carried.
Regent Kiefer presented a communication from the
Dental Faculty, asking the Board to change the degree of
Doctor of Dental Surgery in that department to Master of
Dental Science, and that the degree of Doctor of Dental
Science be given to those who complete one year of prescribed post-graduate work.




232


DECEMBER MEETING, 1893.


The request was referred to the'Medical Committee to
consider and report.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Certificates of Graduation were awarded the following persons, who had completed the course in the Training School for Nurses in
the University Hospital:
Miss Josephine M. Allen,   Miss Anna Corrick,
" Emma Botsford,           " Anna Harrison,
" Roberta Brown,           " Ida Sourman,
Miss Lena Tucker.
A communication was received from the Librarian of
the Tappan Presbyterian Association, asking that bound
copies of the Regents' Proceedings be placed in their
Library.
The request was referred to the Library Committee of
the Board.
Regent Cook presented the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the Auditing Board shall use one of the large
cases which were used in connection with the University Exhibit at
the World's Fair, and now in the Chemical Laboratory. The same
shall be the receptacle for the gifts of Dr. J. C. Leonard, a friend of
the University, who is traveling in the far west, and sending many
valuable specimens of minerals and curiosities for the University
collection, already overtaxing the limits of the small case now in
use.
Regent Barbour presented the petition of E. H. Garnett and twelve others, representing the original nine
Palladium fraternities of the University, asking for the use
of the Gymnasium on the evening of March 30, 1894, for
the purpose of giving the annual Junior Hop.
Also the petition of F. B. Richardson and ten others,
representing the class of '95, asking for the use of the
Gymnasium on the evening of April 6, for the purpose of
giving the annual Junior Class Hop.
On motion of Regent Barbour both requests were
granted on the condition that the building must be closed
at 2 o'clock A. M.




DECEMBER SESSION, 1893.


233


The question of providing fire escapes for University
Hall was referred to the Committee on Buildings and
Grounds.
The request of Dr. Prescott and Professor Freer, asking that the Chemical Laboratory be cleaned four times a
year, was laid on the table.
E. W. Arnold, architect, presented a bill for $900, for
making plans for a new Administration building, which
was on motion referred to the Committee on Buildings
and Grounds.
Regent Butterfield presented the following communication:
To the Honorable, the President and Board of Regents of the University of
Michigan:
Gentlemen.-We, the undersigned members of the Faculty of
the. literary Department, respectfully submit for your approval the
following propositions looking to the establishment of Summer
Courses of Instruction in the University, in the various departments
herein represented.
Subjects to be taught.-It is proposed, with the consent of the
heads of the various departments represented, to establish and
maintain during the summer of 1894, courses of instruction in the
following subjects: Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, French, and
German.
Time of opening.-Such instruction shall begin not later than
July 9, 1894, and continue six weeks.
Reasons for such courses.-The aim of such courses of instruction will be to offer work for the special benefit of teachers and others who cannot enjoy the privileges of the University during the
collegiate year. It is thought that if the teachers of the Secondary
schools can avail themselves of the advantage of University-instruction, methods, library and laboratories, it will not only benefit the
teachers individually, but will also materially extend the influence
of the University.
Similar work in Harvard and Cornell.-Such schools have been
organized in Harvard and Cornell, and the work is now an integral
part of the University course in each institution. During the past
summer there were enrolled in the Summer Courses of Harvard
University over 500 students, of whom a large majority were
teachers.
At Cornell over 70.% of those in attendance were teachers. A
large number of these teachers came from the West. In Harvard




234


DECEMBER MEETING, 1893.


in the summer of 1891, there were 75 in attendance from states west
of New York and Pennsylvania. These teachers go back to their
schools full of enthusiasm and become active recruiting agents for
the institution offering such instruction.
Outline of work proposed.-In Mathematics, French, and German the work proposed will be primarily of an elementary character, similar to the Beginners' Courses in each subject offered in the
University. More advanced work will, of course, be provided
should occasion require.
Use of apparatus.-In Physics and Chemistry instruction in
elementary courses only will be given. No apparatus or property
of the University will be entrusted to the use of students other than
is commonly placed in the hands of beginners of laboratory methods, and such apparatus will at all times be used under the direct
supervision of the instructor in charge. The usual laboratory fees
will be imposed and collected by the University Treasurer, as for
laboratory courses of similar extent given during the collegiate year.
Advertising.-It is further requested that all literature, circulars, and advertising matter of every character whatsoever be issued
by the express order of the President and Board of Regents, and
bear the title of: "Summer Courses of Instruction at the University of Michigan," and that the cost of such advertising literature,
not to exceed $300.00, be assumed by the Board of Regents, who in
turn are to reimburse themselves by retaining not more than 15% of
all the fees collected for tuition.
Fees, how collected.-The fees for tuition shall be collected by
the Treasurer of the University, who shall sell tuition tickets, each
such ticket admitting the holder to a single course of instruction
only. The instructors, upon return of the tickets, receive from the
treasurer the cost of the ticket less the percentage retained by the
University for cost of advertising. Janitor service will be paid by
the individual instructors.
Use of buildings. —It is requested that the President and Board
of Regents grant the right to occupy the usual buildings and laboratories necessary for the work proposed.
Inasmuch as the annual holiday meetings of the various State
Teachers' Associations furnish the most desirable opportunities for
reaching the teaching community, it is respectfully requested that a
definite answer be returned at this meeting of the Board.
Respectfully submitted,
E. A. LYMAN,
J. 0. REED,
W. F. EDWARDS,
E. H. MENSEL,
M. LEVI.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1893.


235


I cheerfully endorse the above scheme, and will offer a course
if I can make the necessary arrangements.  B. A. HINSDALE.
Regent Butterfield submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Board look with favor on the proposition
for the establishment of a Summer School at the University, and
that the whole subject be referred to the President and the Literary
Faculty to formulate working plans for the same. And also that the
Executive Committee be authorized to expend a sum not exceeding
three hundred dollars in advertising said school, such sum to be returned to the Board in the manner provided in the foregoing proposition.
The resolution was adopted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, and Cook.
Nays-None.
Regent Butterfield presented the bill of Regent Whitman, of $500, for legal services in the case of Weinburg vs.
the University, which was allowed by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker and Cook.
Regent Kiefer was absent, Regent Whitman not voting.
Dr. W. A. Campbell asked the Board for an appropriation of $25, for the purchase of a skeleton for use in the
Anatomical Department. The request was referred to the
Medical Committee.
Dr. A. Kent Hale, Receiver of the Ann Arbor Water
Company, asked the Board to annul their contract with
the Water Company and allow them to put in a meter,
charging the University a fixed price pel gallon for all
water used.
The Board took no action on this request.
The Professor of Geology asked permission to spend
$100 (the unexpended balance of a former appropriation)
in the purchase of an outline geological map for use in his
department. A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour and Whitman.
Nays-Regents Butterfield, Cocker, and Cook.




236


DECEMBER MEETING, 189.3


President Angell laid before the Board correspondence
between himself and Mr. Frederick Stearns, of Detroit,
concerning a proposition by Mr. Stearns to present to the
University on certain-conditions a collection of Asiatic
fishes and of Japanese pictures of fishes. The following
letter contains Mr. Stearns's proposition:
DETROIT, Michigan, October 13, 1893.
Pres. James B. Angell':
Dear Sir.-Your letter of October 12th at hand, in answer to
which I would state that I have a valuable collection of the fishes of
Japan and the Bonin Islands, and a lesser collection from the. Hawaiian Kingdom, collected by me in 1892 and illustrated by paintings
in water colors, mostly exact size, from living specimens collected
by me. The paintings are by S. Okubo, of Yokohoma.
My intention in preserving these specimens and paintings was
that they should become finally the property of the city of Detroit,
and be installed in a suitable natural history museum, I think much
needed in this city, but I am much disappointed inasmuch as there
seems to be no probability of such a museum being established during my life-time.
I will turn over the collection of fishes as they now are, preserved in alcohol and unopened, to the Zo6logical Department of
the Michigan University, upon the condition that they be promptly
mounted in glass jars of the latest and most approved model, properly labeled with printed labels, giving the vernacular or native
names and the phonetic pronunciation of these, with the etymology
of the native names and locality and scientific names, so far as such
are on record.
I am positive that there are a large number new to science.
My name in full to be acknowledged on each label as donor.
The mounted specimens in jars of alcohol to be suitably displayed in show-cases where they can be.accessible to students and
also to the visiting public, and yet be fully protected from the deleterious effects of strong light.
The collection to be kept together as a whole (and suitably
catalogued) at least during my lifetime.
Upon these conditions I will turn the material above alluded
to over to the University immediately, together with all my memoranda, notes, books, etc., relating to it, and will assist the Professors
in charge in every possible way in installing the collection.
I am, very respectfully,
FREDERICK STEARNS.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1893.         237
Regent Barbour moved that the gift of Mr. Stearns be
accepted on the conditions named in his communication,
and that the President convey to him the thanks of the
Board for his generous gift, and also that Mr. Stearns be
invited to give a course of lectures at the University on
Oriental Art.
The motion was carried by the unanimous vote of the
Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Board adjourned to
Wednesday, January 17, 1894.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




JANUARY MEETING.
1894.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, January 17, 1894.5
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Kiefer, Barbour, Cocker, Cook, and
Fletcher.
Absent-Rcgents Butterfield, Hebard, and Howard.
On motion of Regent Cook, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted.
Resolved, That no member of the Board of Regents shall
have any financial or professional business with the University by
which he shall receive any pecuniary reward or compensation out of
the funds belonging to the University.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Regents Cocker, Barbour,
and Cook were appointed a committee to recast the standing committees of the board.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the resignation of Perry
F. Trowbridge, Assistant in Qualitative Analysis was accepted and Carleton R. Rose was appointed to succeed
him with the same duties and compensation for the remainder of the year, viz. $250. The vote on this motion
resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Barbour, Cocker, Cook, and Howard.
Nays-None.




240


JANUARY MEETING, 1894.


On motion of Regent Barbour, the Board took a recess
until 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock P. M.
The committee appointed to make a recast of the
Standing Committees of the Board, made the following report, which was adopted:
Executive CommitteeThe President, Regents Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, and
Fletcher.
Finance CommitteeRegents Cocker, Butterfield, Barbour, and Fletcher.
Committee on Literary DepartmentRegents Cocker, Barbour, Butterfield, and Fletcher.
Committee on Medical Department, Homceopathic College, and Dental
SchoolRegents Kiefer, Butterfield, Howard, and Cook.
Committee on Law DepartmentRegents Butterfield, Barbour, Cook, and Cocker.
Library CommitteeRegents Cook, Kiefer, Howard, and Fletcher, and the President.
Committee on Pharmaceutical Department, Astronomical Observatory,
Museum, and School of MinesRegents Howard, Kiefer, Barbour, and Hebard.
Committee on Buildings and GroundsRegents Barbour, Cook, Fletcher, and Howard.
Committee on Gymnasium and Athletic Grounds —
Regents Hebard, Cook, Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Sundry papers which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the
Board.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted:




JANUAR Y MEETING, 1894.


241


Resolved, That the Gymnasium Committee be requested to obtain estimates for the completion of the gymnasium, and also estimates of apparatus required, and report the same to the Board.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted:
Resolved, That all requisitions for supplies be countersigned by
the Dean of the Department to which the applicant belongs.
The following resolution, submitted by Regent Barbour, was adopted:
Resolved, That the Board of Regents decline to annul the contract of the Board with the Ann Arbor Water Company, but the Receiver of theWater Company may put in a meter at his own expense
if he shall so desire.
Regent Cocker moved that the Treasurer be directed
to transfer $55,000 from the General Fund to a special fund
to be designated as a Building Fund.
The motion was carried.
Professors Kelsey and Stanley appeared before the
Board, and stated that an effort was about to be made by
the University Musical Society to secure for the University
the large organ made by Farrand & Votey, of Detroit,
which was used in Festival Hall during the Columbian
Exposition. They asked the Board to approve of the effort to secure this instrument, and to grant permission to
place it in University iall, if we should be so fortunate as
to secure it.
Regent Fletcher submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted by the unanimous vote of the board:
Resolved, That the Board view with approval the purchase of
the large Columbian organ, and in case of said purchase permission
is hereby given to place the same in University Hall, and the Board
will assume the expense of all changes in the building required to
put the instrument in place, provided such expense does not exceed
$1000.
The request of the Library Committee, asking for a
distribution of the Library money for the year 1894, was,
on motion of Regent Barbour, deferred until the next
meeting of the Board.




242


JANUARY MEETING, 1894.


Regent Fletcher moved that the restriction of the
Board requiring the Gymnasium building to be closed at
2 o'clock A. M., on the occasion of the Junior Hop, be removed. After considerable discussion of the question, the
motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Cocker, and Fletcher.
Nays-Regents Barbour and Cook.
Dr. Vaughan stated that in the near future there
would meet in Chicago delegates from all the Medical Associations of the Northwest, for the purpose of devising
plans for uniform requirements, and a uniform course in
all Medical Schools in that territory. Hie asked the Board
to appoint Regent Kiefer, chairman of the Medical Committee, a delegate to that convention, in order that the
Board might be advised of the range and scope of any action that may be taken at the convention, and its bearing
upon our own Medical School.
It was so ordered by the Board.
On motion of Regent Cook, an appropriation of $100
was made for the purchase of objectives for use in the
Hygienic Laboratory, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Barbour, Cocker, Cook, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer, chairman of the Medical Committee,
reported adversly on the request of Dr. Herdman for an,
appropriation of $65, for the purchase of a millimeter for
use in the Laboratory of Electro Therapeutics. The report
was adopted by a full vote of the Board.
On the recommendation of the Homceopathic Faculty,
the degree of Doctor of Medicine was conferred upon Issie
S. Powers, she having complied with all the requirements
of the Department.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the Dean of the Homoe.
opathic Medical College and the Dean of the Department
of Medicine and Surgery were requested to confer together
and agree upon the hours that each school shall use the




JANUARY MEETING, 1894.


243


amphitheatre of the Homoeopathic College for the purpose
of lectures.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, it was ordered that the
degree of Doctor of Dental Science be conferred upon students who shall complete one full year's prescribed graduate work in the Dental College.
The Homceopathic Faculty submitted a code of rules
for the government of their Hospital, which, on motion of
Regent Kiefer, was laid on the table until the next meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Dr. Robert Wolcott was
employed to install the Stearns Collection of Japanese
fishes at the rate of thirty cents per hour, by the following
vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Barbour, Cocker, Cook, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Prof. H. C. Adams was
given leave of absence to give a short course of lectures at
Johns Hopkins University.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Secretary was directed to take bids in Detroit and Ann Arbor for wiring
the recitation building for electricity, and to let the contract to the lowest bidder.
The motion was carried by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Committee on
Buildings and Grounds were requested to inquire into the
cost of wiring all the buildings on the Campus for electricity, and also the cost of an electric light plant of sufficient
capacity to light all the University buildings, and report
at the next meeting of the Board.
Regent Barbour presented the following communications from the Board of Trustees of the Athletic Association of the University:
ANN ARBOR, Jan. 17, 1894.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
At a meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Athletic Association
of the University of Michigan, held at the residence of Governor




244


JANUARY MEETING, 1894.


Felch, in this city, on Thursday evening, January 11, 1894, there
being present President Angell, Governor Felch, Dean Knowlton,
and Professor Demmon, the same constituting two-thirds of the full
membership of said Board of Trustees, the following resolutions
were unanimously adopted; and in accordance with the instructions
therein contained, I herewith respectfully submit them to the
consideration of your honorable body.
ISAAC N. DEMMON,
Secretary of the Board of Trustees.
Resolved, That in the opinion of this Board of Trustees it is
proper and expedient at the present time to turn over their trust
and all pertaining thereto to the Board of Regents of the University
of Michigan, in accordance with the power and authority given them
by the 7th article of the Articles of Association under which the
" Athletic Association of the University of Michigan " is organized
and incorporated.
Resolved, That the said Board of Regents be notified by the
Secretary of this Board of their design and readiness to turn over
the same to said Board of Regents and to deliver to them all the
funds, bonds, securities, and assets of every kind now held by them
as such trustees at such time and in such manner as said Board of
Regents shall designate.
Resolved, further, That, when said Board of Regents shall have
signified their acceptance of the same, the Treasurer of this Board of
Trustees shall deliver over to said Board of Regents or to such person as they shall by resolution designate, all such funds, bonds,
securities, and assets of every kind in completion of such transfer to
said Board of Regents by the Board of Trustees.
Regent Barbour submitted the following preamble
and resolution, which were adopted by the full vote of the
Board:
WHEREAS this Board has been notified of the design and readiness of the Board of Trustees of the " Athletic Association of the
University of Michigan," a corporation organized under the laws of
the State of Michigan, whose articles of association are recorded in
the office of the County Clerk of Washtenaw County, and a certified
copy of which is this day filed with the Secretary of this Board, to
turn over to this Board the trust committed to them by said articles
of association and all pertaining thereto, in accordance with and
under the power and authority given them by article 7 of said
articles of association, and to deliver to them all the funds, bonds,




JANUARY MEETING, 1894.                  245
securities, and assets of every kind now held by them as such
trustees at such time and in such manner as this Board shall designate. Therefore
Resolved, That this Board do accept the same, and that said
funds, bonds, securities, and assets be delivered to and received and
receipted for by the Treasurer of this Board, the same to be held
and used as specified in said articles of association.
The amount turned over to the Treasurer of the University by the Board of Trustees of the Athletic Association of the University of Michigan, under the foregoing
resolution, was:
Cash in bank,..                                   $2795.03
Registered 4% United States Bonds,...   3300.00
$6095.03
On motion the Board adjourned to February 21.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




FEBRUARY MEETING.
1894.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, February 21, 1894. 
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock, A. M.
Present, Regents Kiefer, Cocker, and Fletcher.
Absent, Regents Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour, Cook,
and Howard.
There being no quorum the Board adjourned to Wednesday, March 21,1894.
JAMES H. WADE,
SEdRETA RY.
MARCH MEETING.
1894:.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, March 21, 1894.5
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock, A. M.
Present, Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker,
and Fletcher.
Absent, Regents Hebard, Cook, and Howard.




248


MARCH MEETING, 1894.


Sundry papers which reached the President were, on
motion, placed in the hands of the Standing Cotn nittees of
the Board.
Regent KieFer submitted the following resolution as
an amendment to section 14 of the By-Laws, which was
adopted.
Resolved, That from and after this date the order of business at
tile meetings ofthle:Board shall be as follows:
1) Call to order by the President.
2) Call of roll by the Secretary.
3) Reading of the minutes of the previous meeting and approval or correction of the same.
4) Communications by the President.
5) Reports of Standing Committees in the order as they appear on the
card, called by the Secretary.
6) Reports of special committees, if any, in the order as appointed in
the previous meetings, called by the secretary.
7) Miscellaneous business.
8) Executive session.
Regent Cocker, Chairman of the Special Committee,
appointed by the Board to visit eastern educational institiltiolns for the purpose of studying their work and their
business methods, and recommending such changes in our
own work and methods as they might think wise, made
the following report 
To the Board of Regents:
While visiting the eastern colleges, we examined with considerable care the financial methods of each college, hoping to find
a solution to some questions that have recently perplexed this
Board. Information was sought particularly on the following points:
1. The advisability of making up, at. a stated time, an annual budget.
2. The method followed in ascertaining the actual needs of the different
depart men ts.
3. The modus operandi of purchasing supplies and apparatus.
The plan of making up an annual budget is followed by Cornell,
Columbia, and Harvard. Yale does not, for the reason that until
recently it has not sought to create a general fund to meet current
expenses, but hias depended upon special endowments, which have
necessarily been limited to certain specific purposes. Now bequests
are credited to the general fund, unless they are made for a stated
purpose.  Yale men have unlimited confidence in tlie ability of
the college to get money at any time and for any purpose. The




MARCH MEETING, 1894.


249


Dean of the Law School told us that he expected to erect a new and
commodious law building. When asked how much money had
been provided, he replied none, but he added that they would
certainly get from the alumni and friends all they needed. He had
no doubt whatever about the matter.
While the colleges mentioned differ in minor details in their
business methods, the same general plan is followed in all essential
particulars. A description of the method followed by Columbia
will perhaps suffice.
In December of each year the following circular letter is sent
for the President by the Secretary to the head of each department:
Sir,-Please report to me on or before January 31st the sum needed by
you as a departmental appropriation for the fiscal year. * * * *
If any change is suggested in the sum appropriated for the current year,
be kind enough to explain the variation as briefly but as clearly as possible,
adding any suggestions that may commend themselves to you as to staff and
needs of the department.
You are hereby notified that any questions affecting salaries in your
department for the next fiscal year, in order to receive attention, must be
presented to me on or before the same date.
After replies have been received, they are carefully sifted by
the President and the Secretary. Some requests are modified and
others rejected, and the result is embodied in a report to the Finance
Committee of the Board of Trustees. This work is done in the
month of February. During the month of March tlhe Finance Committee carefully consider the estimates and recommendations of the
President, and at tlhe April meeting present their report to the
Board. Tlis report is acted upon by the Board at their meeting in
May. When the budget for the year has been fixed, no further
appropriations are made. Professors are not allowed to present
additional requests for money.  Tile policy adopted and firmly
adhered to is never to get beyond the incomne of the college, but to
live up to it. Every endowment is considered.a sacred trust to be
thus used. The income of the college in 1892-1893 was in round
numbers $670,000. The expenditures of that year fell within the
income $782, and some cents. An annual statement of all receipts
and expenditures is printe aind placed in tile lands of each member of the Board. Under each department appears tile names of all
professors, instructors, and emnployees, with their salaries, together
with all other expenses of the department. It may be of interest
to know that the Board is composed of twenty-four nmembers, all
residents of New York. It perpetuates its own existence and is responsile to no other authority. They meet each month during the
collegiate year.




250


MARCIT MEETING, 1894.


The amounts fixed by the Board for current expenses are:
credited to the several departments, and the professors in charge
are held responsible for their proper use.  Each makes the purchases for his own department, but each bill has to be approved by
the President, and unless countersigned by him, the professor is
held responsible for the full amount of the bill. This check is considered effective. If it is found that the head of any department is
not making a judicious use of the funds placed at his disposal, some
one else is appointed to his place.
An emergency fund is placed under the control of the President to be used in unforeseen and pressing necessities, as for example the employment of additional help when professors are sick.
It is not expected that this will be used to purchase additional
apparatus or supplies. The rule is strictly followed that every professor must keep within the amount set aside for the use of his
department.
The fear sometimes expressed that a professor will spend at
the beginning of the collegiate year the entire fund set aside for the
use of his department, and then be left without what is needed for
the remainder of the year, is without foundation in the experience
of Columbia. The fact that a contingency fund can not be drawn
upon to meet wants not anticipated, or to supply careless methods
of expenditure, effectually checks any danger of this kind.
After supplies have been purchased, the bills do not come before the Board for inspection, but each year the Committee of
Finance employ an accountant to inspect all accounts, verify all
expenditures, note all irregularities, and report the result of his.
investigations to the Board.
A superintendent of grounds is appointed to whom all janitors
are responsible. A sum is set aside for his use, as for the use of
any other department. He purchases supplips, has general control
of lighting, heating, and repairs, and directs in all matters relating
to buildings and grounds. He is subject to the orders of the President or the Secretary, who represents the President in many important duties and is his private secretary.
While it took some time to get the present financial system into
successful operation, and much opposition was encountered, its success is beyond question, and even its former opponents concede that
it is efficient and thoroughly practical. The whole atmosphere of
Columbia, especially in its financial management, is pervaded by
a business air that impresses the inquirer and creates confidence.
The different departments have the appearance of practical and
efficient work., 




MARCH MEETING, 1894.


251


At Harvard.a budget is made up each year based on the expenditures of preceding years. Tlie policy of thel Board is to follow
a steady arid uniform system in making appropriations. The sum
previously set aside for the use of a department remains unchanged,
unless new and unexpected conditions have arisen. Even Harvard
with its large revenues has occasionally to practice economy, and
but recently it has dismissed two professors and some instructors in
order to curtail expenses.
In speaking of bequests President Eliot expressed surprise
that the University of Michigan received so few gifts from its alumni
and the friends of the University. On our giving the reason so
frequently assigned, that the State was abundantly able to provide
for all the needs of the University aid that the principal motive for
giving was wanting, he replied that he could not appreciate the
force of this view. Harvard College, he said, was dependent for a
century and a half upon the legislature for funds to meet part of its
expenses. Annual grants were made to pay the salary of the President and certain other professors, and occasional appropriations
were made for special purposes. The last grant was made in 1814.
Ever since, it has depended on the generosity of private individuals.
While it is not to be expected, and perhaps it is not desirable,
that the University should be entirely supported by the gifts of
private individuals, it is very desirable that fellowships should be
established, libraries largely increased, a suitable art building
erected, hospitals built and equipped, and endowments created for
developing special lines of work.  Considering the rich bequests
that are annually made to other colleges, it is certainly very creditable to the University of Michigan that it has been able to compete
so successfully with these more favored institutions. The present
income of the University is about $362,000; of Cornell, $500,000;
Columbia, $700,000; Yale, between $800,000 and $900,000; Harvard,
more than $1,000,000. Considering the fact that the University has
a larger enrollment than any other college except Harvard, the fact
is patent that a dollar has been made to go further here than in any
institution in the country.
It has been demonstrated at Harvard, by carefully compiled
statistics, that the mere increase of numbers is not a source of profit
financially. 'The increase in the expense of instruction has kept
pace with the increased revenue derived from a larger attendance,
so that mere numbers cannot be depended upon to increase the
resources of a college. The character of instruction has changed so
materially, especially in the amount of laboratory work, that a
larger number of professors and instructors are required. It is im



252                 MARCH MEETING, 1894.
possible to keep up with the strides made in the direction of better
and more thorough work without a large increase in the teaching
force and a corresponding increase in expenses.     The following
figures show that this is true in the University for the years 1892,
1893, 1894:
Professors,            No. of students for Cost per
Years.   Students. Assistants, etc. Amount paid. each Instructor. capita.
1892        2,692       142        $174,770       19         64.90
1893        2,778       168         200,890       17         72.32
1894        2,6-28      174         234,000       15         89.04
These estimates simply represent the cost of instruction apart
from the expense of heating, lighting, janitors, repairs, etc.
The increase in the cost of instruction, and the smallness of
the fees paid at the University as compared with those of the colleges we visited, raise the question whether a slight increase in
the fees is not desirable. The following table will serve for comparison:




University.                  Literary.                 Law.                  Medicine.               Dental.
Harvard ---     - 1 --- —- I st year_ --- —         - $150 00, 1st year_ -- -------- $150 00 1st year -------------.$200 00 1st year -____ _-_ _$200 00
2d  "    ----  -   150 00 2d               150002d                200  2d        00 2d "  1'
3d  "              ]50 00 3d '; _ 150 00        3d  "    --------  200 00 3d "    ------ 50 00
4th   ------       150 00                       4th " ----         10000
Matriculation fee --  5 00
Graduation fee ------- 30 00
Total - -  -- -- ----  -- ------ ---            $6400 00                $450 00                $75 00                  $400 00
Yale ----—.... ---------- -- -------- 1st year — _ --- —-   $125 00 1st year   0_ 1_ -----—.$10)  ear - 00 $140 
2d  "   __ ____ __ ---   125 0o) 2d        100 00 2d       -        140 00
3(1  " _ --- —-- 125 00 Graduation fee -— _ _  5 00 3d    ---     - 80 00
Graduation fee _ ----_ 18 00 Annual assessmen t  Graduation fee. —_ - 30 00
for use of Library-  10 00
Total   _ _ --- —--------------------            $518 00                 $215'00                 $390 00
Cornell ----  --   ---       ---- st year —_  ---- $100 00 Ist year ---      $.(.0 CO
2d     --   -      100 00 2d   --— '  --  100 
3d        - -" ----_ --- —-- 100 Oi0 Graduation fee ----  5 iO
4th     -----      10 00
Graduation fee --- —_ 5 00
Total --------------— _ _    _                  $405 00                 $205 00
Columbia - ---- _ --- —-----      1st year. ----$150 00 st year ----------— $150 00  1  st year  __ --- —--,$200 (O
2d     _ I-  ----- 150 00 d                15 2d    " 150 00  200 00
3d -" -. --- —- _   150 00 3d "          ----— 150 00 3d  --------   200 00
4th    -----       150 00 Matriculation fee-..  5 00 Matriculation fee —_  5 00
Matriculation fee _ —  5 00                     Graduation fee ----  25 00
Graduation fee -----  15 00
Total ----- -------   -                         $620 00                 $155 0(                $630 00
University of Michigan, Residents of 1st year -------   $ 20 00 1st year ------ $ 2;) ot 1   st            year-$ 25 00 st year-$ 25 00
the State - -------------      2d    --------      20 00 2d  " -           25 0( 2d 1.25 00 2d "                        2-  5 00
3d  " _ --- —----   20:00 Matriculation fee --  1000 3d  " -- -     25 00 3d  "   _         2500
4th " -     _. --- —--  20 00 Graduation e  10004th25 00 Graduation fee                      0 00
Matriculation fee —._. 10 00                    Matriculation fee --- 10 00 Matriculation fee  10 00
Graduation fee ----  10 00                      Graduation fee --- 10 00
Total ----  --------   ---.           _        $1(0 00                  $70 0(                 $120 00                 $95 00
University of Michigan, Noln-Residents 1st year -— $ ----$ 30 00 st year _ --- —-- -.$ 35 00 1st year --—. ---- $ 35 00 1st year -- - $ 35 00
2d  "     ------   30 00 2d              - 35 00 2d  "   ---       35 00 2d   — '          3 5 00
3d  "    ---     - 30 00 Matriculation fee -— _ 25 00 3d  "  --- -  35 00 3d  "            35 00
4th"      - ---- ----  30 00 Graduation fee --- ---  10 00 4th "    35 00 Matriculation fee —.. 25 00
Matriculation fee ---  25 00                     Matriculation fee ---- 25 00 Graduation fee -. ---- 10 00
Graduation fee                                  Graduation fee-    10 00
Total -     --------- ------— $                     00                  $0150                    175 00 $105             40 00




254


MARCH MEETING, 1894.


Although salaries are higher at Cornell, Yale, and Harvard
than at the University, the difference in rents and in the cost of living makes up in part for the difference in compensation. Columbia
pays some of its professors much higher salaries than are paid in
the colleges just mentioned, but the tendency is toward lower ones,
and when certain chairs are vacated by professors who have long
served the college, less will be paid. At Yale the compensation of
full professors is fixed at a uniform rate of $3,500, the only difference being made in the salaries of unmarried men. This is prob
ably done as a warning to bachelors.
If the University of Michigan were better equipped in certain
special lines of work, and could depend on the generosity of its
alumni and friends for donations in lines that it is found impossible
to secure from the Legislature sufficiently large appropriations for,
there would be but little danger of other colleges, taking from us
some of our best professors. Well equipped laboratories, and large
funds from which to draw in conducting original researches, would
have greater attractions for able and learned men than the difference that now exists in the salaries paid in the University and in
the other leading colleges of the country.
We were much interested in inspecting the gymnasiums at
Yale, Cornell, and Harvard. At Cornell attendance is made compulsory for the freshman year. At the other colleges it is optional.
With the exception of the gymnasium at Yale, which cost over
$200,000, the Waterman gymnasium, when completed, will in some
respects be-superior to any of the others we visited. It was easy to
see that the work done in these gymnasiums served as an inspiration to the students, and had a much greater influence in maintaining a true college spirit than we anticipated. While their first
importance lies in the physical training and development of the
students, they have a secondary importance in the healthy and
manly spirit that they create. They fix the attention on manly
sports and render less attractive certain evils occasionally associated
with college life. We have returned with the conviction that the
gymnasium should be completed without delay, and that the generous gift of Mr. Waterman should be made serviceable to those for
whom it was intended.
It is but proper to say that we were treated with very great
courtesy by the officials of the institutions we visited. Every facility was afforded us in our investigations, and all questions were
cheerfully answered. The hearty recognition of the worth of our
honored President, and the generous praise accorded the University, were especially gratifying. While we saw much to: commend




MARCH MEETING, 1894.


255


in other colleges, we have learned to appreciate more highly the
work that the University has accomplished.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the thanks of the Board
were voted to Regent Cocker for his able report, which
was ordered printed in the minutes.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolutions,
which were adopted by the full vote of the Board.
1. Resolved, That the Secretary be instructed to notify the
several departments that all requests for supplies, apparatus, and in
relation to salaries and other expenses for the next fiscal year must
be left with the Auditing Board on or before the third Wednesday
in April. All requests must be itemized as far as practicable.
2. That the Auditing Board, consisting of the President, Secretary, and Treasurer shall carefully inspect these requests, and
make such recommendation to the Finance Committee, in relation
thereto, as the needs of the several departments require, and the
income of the University will permit. This report shall be presented to the Finance Committee at the meeting of the Board in
May.
3. That the Finance Committee present to the Board at their
May.meeting a statement of all revenues of the University and of
all sums needed to meet the expenses of each department, together
with such suggestions and recommendations as in their judgment
seem desirable.
4. That at the meeting in June the Board fix the amounts to
be credited to the several departments and the various funds.
5. That all requisitions be first approved by the Auditing
Board before any purchases are made.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the use of the gymnasium was given to the Athletic Association for the purpose of holding an indoor meeting under such regulations
as the Advisory Board may determine.
A communication from the Alpha Nu Literary Society
was received, and on motion of Regent Barbour was laid
on the table until the next meeting of the Board.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted.
Resolved, That the action of the Board in regard to all requisitions being signed by the Deans of the departments be rescinded,
and that requisitions be signed by tie heads of departments.




256


MARCH MEETING, 1894.


Regent Barbour reported a communication from Professor J. B. Steere relating to the purchase of a case of
butterflies for purposes of stu(ly in the zoological department, which was, on motion, laid on the table until the
next meeting of the Board.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted.
Resolved, That the action of the Board by which the chairman
of the Finance Committee was made a member of the Auditing
Board be rescinded.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Board took a recess until 2:00 o'clock p. m.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2:00 o'clock p. m.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the Proceedings of
the January meeting of the Board were approved as
printed.
Professor J. C. Knowlton, Dean of the Law Department, who was a mnember of' tHie special coitmnittee who
went east o1 visit other colleges, was present and made a
verbal repoir, l;avillg special refereneo to the Law School.
On motion of Re-enilt, B;13)olur, Deai Knowlton was
requested to reduce his report to writing and present it to
the Board at their next meeting.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the bill of Dr. Vaughan
for $27 for expenses incurred while attending the meeting
of the National Medical Convention at Chicago by order
of the Board, was ordered paid by the full vote of the
Board.
Regent Kiefer was authorized to tender the professorship of Anatomy to Prof. N. G. Broesike, of Berlin, at a
salary of $2,500 a year; and to assure him that the Board
would allow him $100 to pay freight on such anatomical
material and books, as he might desire to bring with him.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:




IMARCH MEETING, 1894.              257
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, and
Fletclher.
Nays-None.
On. motion of Regent Barboiir, an appropriation of $54
was made for the purchase of one milamperemeter for use
in the laboratory of Electro-Therapeutics, by the following
vote:
Ayes -- Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, and
Fletcher.
Nays-None.
On motion   of Regent Barbour, the contract for
putting the electric wires in the south wing of the gylnnasium, was awarded to Billings and Drew, of Detroit, for
$250, by the following vote.
Ayes- Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker and
Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Regent Cocker moved that $15,000 be credited to the
Library Fund for the year 1894 and the first half of 1895,
and be divided as follows:
General Library _ --- —. —  _    __ __         -$11,000
Medical  "  -,500.
Law      "                                      1,000.
Dental   "  --—.__ _          _.. _,  ___        250.
Homceopathic Library — --         _               250.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, and
Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Regents Fletcher presented a communication from a
number of students using the reading room in the Library
building asking for a better regulation of the temperature
in the room. The communication was laid on the table.
E. W. Arnold, architect, presented a bill of $900 for
making plans and specifications for an Administration
building, which was, on motion of Regent Barbour, referred to the Building Committee.




258


MARCH MEETING, 1894.


On motion of Regent Fletcher, the title of Me. Reeve
was changed fiom Superintendent of Buildings, to Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds, with the understanding that he act in subordination to the Secretary; and that
a sum not exceeding $175, be expended in the purchase
of a horse, harness, and cart, for use in his work; and that
all janitors, laborers, and employees be under his control.
The vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, and
Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Regent Butterfield.submittede thre following reso ttion:
Resolved, That this Board ratify the act of its Building Committee as to the work done on the gymnasi-mi since tlhe last meeting of
the Board, and that the Treasurer pay for the same out of the
Building Fund; and that such Committee is requested to take immediate steps to secure the completion of the gymnasium and report to this Board.
The resolution was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, and
Fletcher.
Nayes-None.
Regent Fletcher submitted the following resolution.,
which was adopted:
Resolved, That books that are necessary for the successful prosecution of work in the various laboratories may be placed therein
permanently, provided that this disposition of them shall not expose them to unusual dangers, and that there shall be suitable
cases for their reception.
It shall b3 the duty of the Library Committees of the Literary
and Medical Faculties-each for its own Department-to determine
whether the conditions above described exist, and, also, to determine how many and what books shall be placed in each laboratory,
and when there shall be a duplication of books.
The professor in charge of a laboratory shall have the care of
the. books placed in it, and shall at the close of each college year
account for them to the Librarian of the University.
Regent Fletcher submitted the folloving, preamble
and resolution, which were adopted:




MARCH MEETING, 1894.


259


WHEREAS, the inscription at present over the entrance to the
gymnasium is a constant reminder to the average alumnius of how
much he has either failed to learn, or has forgotten; therefore,
Resolved, That the Superintendent of Buildings be instructed
to have said stone dressed flush and that the words, " Waterman
Gymnasium" be then carved upon said stone in letters that he
who runs may read.
Regent Fletcher presented and read the following
communication from the Ann Arbor Water Company; on
which no action was taken:
ANN ARBOR, MTCH., March 19, 1894.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN — I am informed that at your last meeting, A. K.
Hale, the Receiver of the Ann Arbor Water Company, appeared before you and presented certain facts and figures in reference to the
amount of water that the University is consuming. He also asked
that the contract heretofore made by one A. W. Hamilton, the former Superintendent, with your Honorable Board, be modified.
I do not deem it necessary in this communication to again go
over the matters presented to you for consideration, by the Receiver
of the Water Company, as they have been fully laid before you.
I am authorized to make you this offer, viz.: If you will consent to have the water used by the University metered, the same
will be furnished at the rate of six cents per one thousand gallons.
I think that an examination of the charges made in other cities will
convince you that this is an exceedingly low rate.
The Receiver has no desire to occasion the University any
inconvenience; but it will be necessary that some action be taken
in relation to this matter as soon as possible. I have advised the
Receiver that he is not obliged to carry out the terms of the contract
entered into by Mr. Hamilton. Trusting that your Honorable Board
will give this matter immediate attention, I am,
Very respectfully yours,
J. F. LAWRENCE,
Attorney for Receiver.
On motion of Regent Kiefer the Secretary was instructed to cause two small cases to be placed in the east
half of the Museum    for the reception of archeological
specimens.
Regent Kiefer presented a communication from Pro



260


MARCH MEEPING, 1894.


lessor Edwards, relating to work in Chemical Physics,
which was on Inotion laid on the tabre.
Regevpt Cocker preseri ted the following communication
from the F'aiculty of tlhe Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, which was adopted:
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents.
GENTLEMEN: —I have the honor to submit to you, for approval,
the followilug resnlation w;-ich was adopted by the Faculty, at the
meeting of January 29th:
Resolved, ' That the Regents be requested to place to the credit
of each scientific department, as a reimbursing fund, the laboratory
fees collected from students in that department in the proposed
Summer School."         Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DE PONT,
Registrar.
Regent Cocker presented and read the following communication from the Administrative Council, which was
adopted by the Board:
ANN ARBOR, Mich., February 8, 1894.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents.
GENTLEMEN:-By direction of the Administrative Council of
the Graduate School, I hereby respectfully submit for your consideration an extract, as given below, from the report of a committee
on requirements for the Doctor's degree, which report has been
accepted and approved by the Council.
"To guarantee the printing of the dissertation, every candidate for the Doctor's degree will be required to deposit with the
treasurer of the University, between the date of the acceptance of
his dissertation and the time fixed for his examination, the sum of
fifty dollars, which deposit will be returned to hlim in case of failure
to pass his examination, or whenever he shall cause his dissertation
to be printed at his own expense, or shall have it publishled in a
form and under auspices approved by the responsible committee."
The Council expresses the hope that the proposition here
stated will meet your approval, and tlhat you will take such steps as
may be necessary to authorize tile treasurer of tlie Unliversity to
carry out its provisions.  Respectfully submitted,
WM. H-. PETTEE,
Secretary of the Council.
Mr. Andrew Harvey, of Detroit. appeared before the
Board and discussed the feasibility of a central heating
plant on the campus. He was requested by tile Board to




MARCH MEETING, 1894.


261


prepare sketch plans with estimate of cost, and present
them to the Board at their next meeting.
On mlotion of Regent Butterfield, it was ordered that
all proposals to furnish equipment of the gymnasium
and ail applications for the directorship of the vymrnasiurn
be referred to the Committee on Gymnasium and Athletic
Groundls.
On motion of Regent Bulterfield, the Board went ilto
executive session.
Regent Barhour moved that the publication of;he
University Record be continued for another year at a cost
not exceeding $500. The vote on this motion resulted as
follows:
Ayes, Regents Kiefer, Butterfield. Barbour, Cocker, and
Fletcher. Nays, none.
Regtent Butterfield presented and read the following
communications from Dr. A. B. Prescott, Director of tlhe
Chemical Laboratory.
ANN ARBOR, Mich., March 19, 1894.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents.
GENTLEMEN:-I beg to ask leave of absence from the ninth
of April, next, to the close of the college-year, for purposes of
study in Europe. And to supply services for wlich I am responsible
during the period of my absence, I beg leave to recommend that
1. Professor Otifs C. Johnson be authorized to act as Professor
in charge of the Chemical Laboratory.
2. Tle title of Instructor William F. Edwards be that of Instructor in Organic Chemistry, for the same period.
3. Mr. Emerson R. Miller (Phar.M.) be appointed, for the
time above mentioned, Assistant Accountant in the Chemical
Laboratory.
4. Mr. George L. Davison be appoint6d, for the period stated,
Assistant in Organic Chemistry, for services under Instructor
Gonl erg.
All the appointments above recommended to be without compensation from the University.
Very respectfully,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT.
ANN- ARBOR, Mich., March 20, 1894.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents.
GENTLEMEN: —At a meeting of tlhe Faculty of the School of
Pharmacy held this day, Professor Alviso B. Stevens was unanimously nominated by the Faculty as Dean of the same for the




262


IMARCH MEETING, 1894.


period of the absence of the undersigned froln the University, April
9th to September of this year, provided leave for this absence shall
be granted by your honorable body.
Respectfully,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT,
Dean,
On motion of Regent Butterfield, leave of absence was
granted Dr. Prescott, as requested, and the appointments
named in the foregoing communications were made as
recommended.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Professor J. E. Reighard was granted leave of absence for the next college
year, for the purpose of study in Europe, to retain his
salary while absent, and to provide satisfactory instruction
in the department for which he is responsible.
Regent Barbour presented the following communication, which was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes, Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, and
Fletcher. NSays, none.
ANN ARBOR, Mich., March 20, 1894.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents.
GENTLEIEN-:-The undersigned requests the appointment for
one year of the following:
Mr. Warren Lewis, as Graduate Assistant in Vertebrate Morphology, at $300 per year. Mr. Lewis takes thie degree of B. S. in
June.
Mr. T. E. Goodrich, as Undergraduate Assistant in Vertebrate
Morphology, at $200 per year.
These two men take the place of Mr. H. S. Jennings, who has
received $500 per year. I am compelled to suggest the division of
Mr. Jennings' work and salary between two assistants, for the
reason that I have been unable (at the price) to find a single person
capable of doing both sorts of work.
Respectfully submitted,
J. E, REIGHARD,
Prof. An. Morph.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the annual fee in all
Departments of the University was increased $5, on and
after October 1st, next.
Regent Barbour moved that the Auditing Board be
authorized to purchase the interest of Arthur Brown in
lot number eleven adjoining the hospital grounds, being




MARCH MEETING, 1894.


263


5-6 of said lot, at a cost not exceeding $375. The vote on
this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes, Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, and
Fletcher. Nays, none.
By a vote of three to two, the Board declined to enter
into contract with the Johnson Heat Regulating Company
to put their device in the new recitation building.
The professor of General Chemistry presented a
requisition for supplies for his department for the year
1894-5 amountintn  to $1374.66. He asked the Board to
approve thie requisition as it was necessary to give the
order now in order that the goods might I)e imported il
time for use next October.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the order was applrved,
the amount to be deducted from the fixed sum to be set
apart for that department for the next college-year.
Ayes, Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker and
Fletcher. Nays, none.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, tlhe President was requested to correspond with Dr. J. B. Fitzgerald, of Worcester, Mass., who is an applicant for the Directorship of
the gymnasium, and it he shall think it wise, to invite
him to come here at the expense of the University, for
conference.
On motion the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




APRIL MEETING.
1894.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, April 18, 1894. 
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock, A. M.
Present-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Kiefer, and
Fletcher.
Absent-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, and Howard.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the approval of tHie
minutes of the last meeting was deferred until the afternool session ill order tlat the Board might llave time to
examine them.
The President submitted the following report of the
action of the Executive Committee:
ANN ARBOR, April 18, 1894.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
The Executive Committee beg leave to report that on April 2d,
A. Muirhead, M. D., was constrained by illness to resign the place
of Assistant to the Professor of Materia Medica and Therapeutics, in
the Department of Medicine and Surgery.  The Committee appointed, on the recommendation of Professor Cushny and Professor
Vaughan, Mr. Samuel A. Matthews to fill the vacancy for the
remainder of the University year, to be paid at the same rate as
Dr. Muirhead.
JAMES B. ANGELL,
LEVI D. BARIBOUR,
W. J. COCKER,
FR.ANK W. FL,ETCIIER.




266


APRIL MEETING, 1894.


On motion of Regent Cook, the report of the Executive Committee was adopted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer presented and read a communication
from the Dean of the Medical Faculty asking the Board to
establish a one year preparatory course in the Department
of Medicine and Surgery. On motion of Reeent Cocker,
the communication was laid on the table.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, George F. Clark, M. D.,
was appointed House Surgeon in the Homceopathic Hospital from February 19th to August 19th, salary at the
rate of $350 per year, by tlle following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Receint Cocker presented and read a communication
from Professor J. B. Steere, presenting a number of specimens to the museuni. On motion of Regent Cocker, the
gift of Professor Steere was accepted and the thanks of
the Board were returned for the same.
The request of the Homoeopathic Faculty to be
allowed to spend in the purchase of- instruments for their
Hospital the sum of $500, which was voted for that purpose by the Board, was laid on the table until the Dean
of the Faculty furnishes a complete list of the instruments
needed.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Law Faculty were
requested to prepare a scheme for a three years' course in
the Law Department, together with an estimate of the
teaching force necessary to carry the same into effect,
and to report the same to the Board at their next meeting
for consideration.
Regent Fletcher moved that the bid of Spitzley
Brothers, of Detroit, of $2,048 to furnish tlhe material and
completely finish the first story of the south wing, of the




APRIL MEETING, 1894.


267


Waterman Gymnasium, iincluding the stairs to all the
stories, and the fire places, but excluding the painthng and
glazing, b1e accepted; the work to be done according to
plans ald specifications made by E. W. Arnold, architect.
The motion was carried, and the Secretary was authorized to enter intto contract in the name of the Board, by
tle iollowing(r vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays —None.
Regent Fletcher moved tliat the Secretary invite a
number of the best steam heating firms of tlhe country to
prepare sketclh pIlans with estimate of cost for one central
heating plant on tlie campus, to take the place of the two
heating plants now in use; the building to belarge enough
to provide ample room   for thle necessary electrical
machinery to light all tile buildings on tie campus; and
submit the same at thle next meeting of tlhe Board for considerationl, but without cost to tlhe University.  The
motion was carried.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Committee on
Buildings and Gro1uds were requested to inquire as to
the best tlling to be done with the roof of the Museum
Building, and also with tie Old Boiler House at the
Chemical Laboratory, and report at the next meeting of
the Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the request of Professor Steere for an appropriation of $100 to purchase a
case of butterflies for study in the Zoological Laboratory
was taken from the table and denied.
Regent Barbour, Chairman of the Committee on
Buildings and Grounds, to whom was referred at the last
meeting the bill of Schuh & Muelhlig, for $120, for repairing
the steam heating in the Law Building, reported that the
Committee did not see any reason why the University
should pay this bill, as the work done was a part of the
original contract.




268


APRIL MEETING, 1894.


On motion of Regent Cocker. the Board went into
executive session.
Regent Fletcher moved that Dr. J. B. Fitzgerald be
appointed Director of the Gymnasium for one year fiom
the first of Octoler next, at a salary of'.1,809. The
motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-N one.
On motion of Regont Barbour, lle Board took a recess
until 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
Tile Board reassemble: at 2 o'clock p. P.
On motioJn of Regent Fletcher, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
Dr. Va(glalln address.e( the Board in regard to keeping tie' University H-oslital open dullrin  the summer,
monthls.
Regent Kiefer moved that both hosp)itals be kept
open (luring I tlle sumlner. Tlle vote wvis (c;rried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
The Homoepathic Faculty requested tlhe Board to fit
up a ro1om in their college bluilding for the Secretary of
their Faculty. Tlhe request was, on m(otion of Igenlt
Kiefer, laid on the table until tie next m -etinlg.
Professor John C. Rolle, Ph.D., Junior Professor of
Latin, was mad(e Professors of Classical Phlilology, wit l a
salary of $2,500 from October 1st next, by the following
vote:
Ayes —Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays —None.
Professor J. C. Ktnowlto,, Dean of lie L\aw Depar'tmeit, submitted Iiis report in writing (as relquested by the




APRIL MEETING, 1894.


269


Board at the last meeting) of his observations while visiting eastern institutions.
The report was accepted and placed on file.
Dr. Carrow appeared before the Board in behalf of
the Board of Control of the Michigan School for the Blind,
and submitted a communication from the Secretary of that
institution, asking that pupils from that school be received.
boarded. and treated at the University Hospital at the
expense of the University.
On motion of Regent Barbour, it was voted that
children from the Michigan Schlool for the Blilnd be received at the Hospitals for treatment at the rate of $2.50
per week, until the next Legislature meets, whenl an appropriation sufficiently large to pay the regular Hospital
charges in the future may be secured.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE, Secretary.




MAY MEETING.
1894.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, May 16, 1894.)
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock a. m.
Present-Regents Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, Cook,
Kiefer and Fletcher.
Absent-Hebard and Howard.
The President presented and read a communication
from the University Musical Society, extending an invitation to the Board to be present at the May Festival, to be
given by that Society. On motion of Regent Fletcher,
the thanks of the Board were returned to the University
Musical Society for their kind invitation.
Sundry papers which had reached the President, were
placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the
Board.
Regent Cocker presented and read the following communication from the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts. The resolution was adopted.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents,
Gentlemen-I have the honor to report to you that the Faculty
has adopted the following resolutions, and have referred them to
your Honorable Body for approval.
1st-That the number of hours required for graduation in the several courses of this department be made uniform, viz.: One
hundred and twenty hours.
2d-That candidates for the degree of Ph. B., B. S., or B. L., who
at the end of 1893-94 shall have one hundred and twenty hours




272
12


MAY MEETING, 1894.


or more to their credit, be held to the requirement of one hundred and thirty hours for graduation.
3d-That the maximum number of hours which a student may elect
in any semester of his residence shall be sixteen hours, except by special permission of the Faculty.
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DE PONT,
Registrar.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the title of Professor
Rolfe was changed from Professor of Classical Philology
to Professor of Latin.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the contract for putting the plumbing in the south wing of the gymnasium
building was given to Hutzel & Company, for the sum of
$1,497.00, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Kiefer,
and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
The Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds reported that Spitzley Brothers, of Detroit, had estimated
the cost of a new roof on the Museum Building at $5.500;
Regent Barbour moved that the Superintendent be
requested to have plans and specifications made for the
work and send the same to the Committee on Buildings
and Grounds, that they may take bids on the work, and
report the same at the next meeting of the Board. It was
so ordered.
Regent Barbour moved that the basement of the gymnasium be ceiled overhead with Georgia pine.
The vote on the motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Kiefer, and
Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer, Chairman of the Medical Committee,
to whom was referred the request of the Homoeopathic




MA Y MEE TING, 1894.


278


Medical Faculty, that a room be fitted up in their College
building for the use of the Secretary of the Faculty, reported that in the judgment of the Committee the work
was unnecessary.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the resignation of Dr.
O. Sauerman, assistant to the Professor of Ophthalmology,
in the Department of Medicine and Surgery, was accepted,
and Dr. W. G. Rice was appointed to the place, to date
from April 1st, by the following vote:
Ayes —Regents Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Kiefer, and
Fletcher.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Superintendent of
Buildings was instructed to put two transom windows in
the President's room to aid ventilation.
Professor Reighard reported that he desired to send a
man, from his department again this year with the State
Fish Commission to study the fauna and flora of the waters of the lakes and rivers of Michigan during the summer
months. He asked permission to take the necessary books
and apparatus belonging to the University on the same
conditions as last year, viz.: That the the Fish Commission guarantee the safe return of all articles taken, and
make good all damage done to the same. Permission was
granted, and Librarian Davis, Prof. Steere, and the Secretary were requested to inspect the property when it went
out, and again when it is returned, and estimate any damage that may be done to it.
Regent Cocker moved that Instructor J. O. Reed be
made Assistant Professor of Physics, at a salary of $1,600,
from October next.
The vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Kiefer,
and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the following ap



274


MA Y MEETING, 1894.


pointments were made in the Morphological Laboratory
year 1894-5:
D. C. Worcester, A. B., to be Assistant Professor of Animal
Morphology, in charge of the Laboratory, in place of Prof. J. E.
Reighard, who will be absent on leave. Salary to be paid by Prof.
Reighard.
C. A. Kofoid, to be instructor in Vertebrate Morphology, at a
salary of $900.
J. B. Johnson, Ph. B., Graduate Assistant in Invertebrate Morphology, salary $300.
Mr. Charles K. Carpenter, Undergraduate Assistant in Invertebrate Morphology, salary $200.
Mr. C. H. Lander, to be Undergraduate Assistant in Vetebrate
Morphology, salary $200.
The foregoing appointments were made by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Kiefer,
and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the resignation of Professor John Dewey was accepted, to take effect at the end
of the current University year.
The Board then took up the consideration of a new
steam heating plant, and after examining plans and estimates presented by parties from Boston, Chicago, Toledo,
and Detroit, the matter was held in abeyance until the
next meeting of the Board.
Professor V. M. Spalding, who is now in Europe on
leave asked that his leave of absence be extended for
another year without pay, which was, on motion, granted.
Regent Cocker moved that F. C. Newcomb, B. S., Ph.
D., be reappointed Acting Assistant Professor of Botanyi
for one year from October next, at a salary of $1600; and
that Lorenzo N. Johnson, A. M., be appointed instructor
in Botany for one year, at a salary of $900.
The motion of Regent Cocker was carried as follows:
Ajes.-Regents Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Keifer and
Fletcher.
Nays.-None.




MA Y MEETING, 1894.


275


On motion of Regent Barbour, the new recitation building was named Tappan Hall.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was instructed to partition off a portion of Room A, on the west
side for a storage room, and fit up the rest of the room
for offices for the Dean of the Faculty, the Registrar, and
the Faculty, connecting the same with the Secretary's
office by means of an archway cut through the division
wall.
The Finance Committee presented the financial budget for the ensuing year, which was reported to the full
Board for consideration and action at the next meeting of
the Board.
On motion of Regent Cook, the President was requested
to convey the thanks of the Board to an unknown donor
for valuable gifts to the General Library, Description de
l'Egypte, and the Geographical and Historical Dictionary
of America and the West Indies, from the Spanish of
Alcedo, by George A. Thompson, 5 vol., 4to, and numerous
accompanying maps. 1815.
Regent Butterfield moved that W. S. Elden, A. B.,
be appointed instructor in French for one year, at a salary
of $900; and that Arthur G. Hall, B. S., be made instructor in Mathematics for one year, at a salary of $900.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes.-Regents Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Kiefer and
Fletcher.
Nays.-None.
On motion of Regent Cook, Mr. Oliver L. Hebbert
was appointed Instructor in the Gymnasium for one year,
at a salary of $800, by the following vote:
Ayes.-Regents Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Keifer and
Fletcher.
Nays.-None.
Regent Barbour moved that a committee be appointed
to wait on Mr. Benton Hanchett, of Saginaw, and invite
him to take a position in the Law Department.




276              MA Y MEETING, 1894.
The motion was carried unanimously and the Law
Committee was charged with the duty.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Monday, June 11.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




ADJOURNED MEETING.
1894.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, June 11, 1894.
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Dean, Kiefer and
Fletcher.
Absent-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, and Cook.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Regents Barbour,
Kiefer, and Fletcher were appointed a committee to make
a recast of the Standing Committees of the Board.
Regent Cocker presented the resignation of Assistant
Professor Geo. H. Mead, A. B., which was accepted.
Regent Kiefer moved an appropriation of $600 for the
purchase of microscopes for use in the Hygienic Laboratory, and $350 for the purchase of microscopes for the
Pathological Laboratory, and $ 100 for a microscope for the
Professor of Surgery. A call vote being taken resulted
as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Dean, Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the purchase of instruments for the Homoeopathic Hospital was deferred until
the next meeting of the Board.
On the recommendation of the Homoeopathic Fac



282


ADJOURNED MEETING, 1894.


ulty, Regent Kiefer moved, that the appointment of
Maurice P. Hunt, M. D., Professor of Gynecology and
Obstetrics, be made permanent;
That the appointment of Eugene R. Eggleston, M.
D., Professor of the Theory and Practice of Medicine, be
made permanent;
That Dr. Jennie Hughes be made Assistant to the
Chair of Obstetrics, in place of Dr. Dakin, from July 1,
1894, to October 1, 1894.
That Mr. Lester E. Peck be appointed House Physician, in place of Dr. Hoffman, from now until August 19,
1894, he to receive as compensation for his services his
board and lodging;
And that Dr. 0. R. Long be appointed Lecturer on
Mental Diseases, for one year, without salary.
The vote on Regent Kiefer's motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Dean, Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer read the following Communication
from the Dean of the Homceopathic Faculty:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
It is requested that the rooms on the second floor of the brick
building at the north end of the Homceopathic College be converted
into a Pathological Amphitheatre, and a Mortuary and a Pathological
Museum for the joint use of the Medical classes under the direction
of Dr. H. Gibbes; and that the east room on the first floor of the
same building be fitted up for a recitation room for the use of the
Homoeopathic classes; and that space be given in the coal house
for animals.
The Faculty of the Homceopathic College consents to the foregoing changes.                       H. L. OBETZ, Dean.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the Secretary was directed
to make the changes indicated in the foregoing communication at a cost not exceeding $100, by the following
vote:




ADJOURNED MEETING, 1894.


283


Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Dean, Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Board took a recess
until 2 o'clock P. iM.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. m., Regent
Cook being present.
Regent Kiefer moved that Dr. J. Playfair McMurrich,
Ph.D., of Cincinnati, Ohio, be appointed to the Chair of
Anatomy, made vacant by the death of Dr. C. L. Ford, at
a salary of $2,500, it being understood that he is not to
engage in private medical practice.
The vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-Regents Cook and Dean.
Regent Barber, from    the Committee appointed to
make a recast of the Standing Committee, reported as follows, which was adopted:
Executive Committee:
The President, Regents Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker and
Fletcher..inance Committee:
Regents Cocker, Barbour, Kiefer and Dean.
Committee on Literary Department:
Regents Cocker, Barbour, Butterfield and Fletcher.
Committee on Medical Department, Homrnopathic College and Dental
School:
Regents Kiefer, Butterfield, Hebard and Cook.
Committee on Law Department:
Regents Butterfield, Barbour, Cook and Cocker.
Library Committee:
Regents Cook, Butterfield, Dean, Fletcher, and the President.
Committee on Pharmaceutical Department, Astronomical Observatory,
Museum and School of Mines:
Regents Hebard. Kiefer, Barbour and Dean.
Committee on Buildings and Grounds:
Regents Barbour, Cook, Fletcher and Cocker.
Committee on Gymnasium and Athletic Grounds:
Regents Fletcher, Hebard, Cook and Kiefer.




284


ADJOURNED MEETING, 1894.


The Board spent considerable time in the consideration of plans for a central heating plant on the campus,
but no conclusion was reached and the matter was held
in abeyance until the next meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Board adjourned
to 7:30 P. M.
EVENING SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 7:30 p. M., Regent Fletcher
being absent.
On the recommendation of the Faculty of the Dental
College, it was voted that the degree ol Doctor of Dental
Science be conferred upon Miss Carrie M. Stewart, D.D.S.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the degree of A. B. was
conferred upon William Allen Underwood, as of the class
of 1868.
Regent Barbour stated that the Alpha Nu Literary
Society, the Woman's League, and the U. of M. Daily,
had each requested the Board to set apart a room in the
main building for their use. On motion, the matter was
referred to the Secretary to determine whether there was
any available room for this purpose, after the teaching
force are provided for.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Board went into
executive session.
Regent Barbouir moved: First, That the present postgraduate course in the Law Department should be
strengthened by adding instruction in the following subjects, as well as increasing the length of time devoted to
the subjects already announced.
a. Suretyship and Mortgage.
b. Judicial Sales.
c. The Law of Damages.
d. Conveyancing.
e. Taxation.
f. Roman Law.
Second, That the requirements for admission to the De



ADJOURNED MEETING, 1894.


285


partment of Law be changed in the following particulars,
the change to take effect October 1st, 1896: a. That all
students applying for admission to the Department for
regular enrollment as members of the Junior Class,
(except those who are graduates or matriculates of colleges, or who present diplomas from approved high
schools) shall be required to pass an entrance examination such as is required of candidates for admission to the
Literary Department for the degree of Bachelor of Letters, as found on pages 40 and 41 of the Calendar of the
University for 1893-4, excluding, however, Nos. 4, 5 and
8, in the requirements found on those pages. b. Special
Students. That all persons over 21 years of age may
enter this Department without taking the regular examination for admission who can show that they have a
good knowledge of English and areotherwise prepared to
pursue profitably the studies they may desire to take up,
and may subsequently become candidates for graduation,
provided they show a high degree of proficiency in their
work while here and complete the required work.
The vote on Regent Barbour's motion resulted as
follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean and Kiefer.
Nays-None.
Regent Barbour moved tlat Quizmasters John W.
Dwyer, LL.M., and Thomas W. Hughes, LL.M., in the
Law Department, be retained another year at.a salary of
$600 each, and that their title be changed to Instructor,
and that one additional instructor be appointed for one
year from October 1st, at a salary of $600.
Second. That the salary of F. R. Mechem, Tappan
Professor of Law, be increased to $2,700 after October
1st, 1894.
Third. That C. L. Meader, A.B., be appointed Lecturer on Roman Law for one year Irom October 1st at a
salary of $150.
Fourth. That the Law Faculty prepare a three years'




286


ADJOURNED MEETING, 1894.


course of instruction to go into effect October 1st, 1895,
and report the same to the Board for approval.
A call vote being taken on Regent Barbour's motion
resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean and Kiefer.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Law Committee
and Regent Dean were requested to visit Mr. Benton
Halnchett, of Saginaw, and offer him the Deanship of the
Law Department, he to select his own course of work.
Regent Barbour presented the request of Professor
H. C. Adams to establish a course in Sociology in accordance with a plan drawn by Mr: C. H. Cooley, to be in
charge of Mr. Cooley as instructor, and that the salary for
this work be $500. The matter was discussed and laid on
the table.
Regent Cocker submitted the following budget for
the current expenses of the University, in all its departmients, from July 1st, 1891, to July 1st, 1895:
Supplies for the Botanical Laboratory-    ---    $554 00
".. " Morphological Laboratory-_  ----     626 00." " Department of Greek ----          --      175 00
"     " 'l Mining Engineering — — __ --      225 00
"     " (C Oriental Languages — --—. --- —-   100 00
"    " " Department of Physics - -    ---    1500 00
(. (     It "   " History ---- ___~_       150 00
". "      '     ". Latin - ------          79 00
".L...( Zoology.. ----            50 00. *I.....'         " Geology. - ----     -  439 00
"  " (.... " Civil Engineering --- —- 1000 00."   c  tc c  t      " Astronomy_ --- —-_      324 00
i("  "    "t       l ' Psychology. --- —--- --  400 00
"  "  General Library ---. -   -          527 00
"  ". Department of Mechanical Engineering-_  1294 00
". " Histological Laboratory -----       330 00
"   " "eC Pathological Laboraorry. ___ — 411 00
"    i" " Laboratory of.Electro Therapeutics-____  275 00
"   "     N" ervous Diseases ---- — __ _       144 00." "t Diseases of Women and Children ----     289 00
"    " " Theory and Practice of Medicine. ---  50 00
"   " " Surgical Clinic --- —- --          -    60 00




ADJOURNED MEETING, 1894.                287
Supplies for the Surgical Demonstration.- 5-60 00
"  " " Dermatology — -_                       50 00
" "      Ophthalmology.           __ --- —---  80 00
"  " " Materia Medica. --- —-—. ---          420 00
",   " Physiology.      --------------      541 00
"   " " Anatomical Laboratorvy  -      ----   3800 00
'  " " University Hospital-.-   --- -5269 00
t'  " " (Hygienic Laboratory- -----   ----   2000 00." " Chemical Laboratory ----               9075 00.." " General Chemistry.       --     -       1500 00
".. " Law Department ----      ---            1000 00... " Homocopathic Hospital (Clark) --- —-   2725 00
"  " LLHomweopathic Hospital and College --- — 1050 00
Books for Libraries ----  --  -- -  15000 00
a  " " Dental Department --  --— 5000 00
Insurance                -------    1500 00
Horse and Cart. --- —--- -----------   0 00
School Inspection. —. ----. ----   800 00
Postage. --- -                      1000 00
Alcohol. -. -----  ----. 900 00
Diplomas.-   -   -  --- --          1200 00
Commencement Expenses --- —----      1000 00
Contingent Expenses --- —-------     8000 00
Fuel and Lights --- —- 20000 00
Repairs ----     -— 5 —.- 000 00
Water Supply-  -     --     ----    1000 00
Carpenter Shop -- _.-  ----         _  800 00
Calendar, Regents' Proceedings and Miscellaneous Printing --- — --     4000 00
Pay Roll....... —.._  — _ 266700 00
Special Reserve Fund     —. --- —_ 3178 00
$372500 00
RESOURCES.
1-6 Mill Tax —    --      ----     $188000 CO
Interest on Endowment Futnd.- -38500 00
Homceopathic Act --- —                6000 00
Students' Fees- --------            128000 00
Increase of Students' Fees-. --- -    12000 00
$372500 00
Regent Cocker moved the adoption of the budget as
reported, and the motion was carried by the following
vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean and Kiefer.
Nays-None.




288          ADJOURNED MEETING, 1894.
Regent Barbour submitted the following bids for putting new roof on the Museum Building:
Spitzley Bros., of Detroit, $4814.00.
A. Hild & Co., of Detroit, $4750.00.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the matter was referred to the Building Committee with power to act.
The Board then adjourned to Monday, June 25th.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




JUNE MEETING.
1894.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, June 25, 1894.4
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
11 o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Hebard, Cook, Dean, and Kiefer.
Absent-Regents Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, and
Fletcher.
There being no quoium present, on motion of Regent Dean the Board adjourned to 7:30 o'clock P. M.
EVENING SESSION.
The Board assembled at 7:30 o'clock P. M.
Present-Regents Hebard, Barbour, Cook, Dean, and
Kiefer.
Absent-Regents Butterfield, Cocker, and Fletcher.
Sundry papers which had reached the President were
referred to appropriate committees of the Board.
On motion of Regent Dean, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following
communication from the Faculty of the Department of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.




290


JUNE MEETING, 1894.


To the Honorable Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN: —  have the honor to report to your honorable
body that the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, at their last meeting, recommended to you the following
persons for degrees as indicated below:
BACHELOR OF LETTERS.


John Quincy Adams,
Hattie May Bailey,
Jamie Maud Blanchard,
Lelia Brouillette,
Alfred Beethoven Connable,
Katharine Andrew Crane,
Henrietta Isman Goodrich,
Benjamin Franklin Hall, Jr.,
Ray Hart,
Kate Almira Hopper,
Herman Bertram Krognian,
Daniel Franklin Lyons,
Sarah Elizabeth Voorheis McComb,
Dwight Otis Miller,
Sara Genevieve O'Brien,
Frederic Leigh Osenburg,


Elmer James Ottaway,
Alvick Alfonso Pearson,
Carrie Eleanor Penfield,
Andrew Johnson Purdy, Ph.B.,
Alfred University.
Helen Annetta Rice,
Sara May Riggs,
Edmund Claude Shields,
Almeron Warren Smith,
Annah May Soule,
Louise Helmuth Uren,
Ernest Haven Warren,
Edward Lacy Watrous,
William Walter Wedemeyer,
Lloyd Justin Wentworth,
Earl Farwell Wilson.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING).


Clarence Sidney Cooke,
Almon Henry Demrick,
Charles Jacobson Harmon,


Fred Rogers,
Fred Anson Sager.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING).


Abraham Kohn Adler,
Robert Lewis Ames,
Archibald Lachlan Beeker,
John Charles Bird,
James Blair,
Howard Everett Chickering,
Harry Walter Clark,
William Cole Conant,


Herman Henry Eymer,
John Churchill Hammond,
Harrie D. Hamper,
George Hayler, Jr.,
William Stewart Smith,
Goldwin Starrett,
George Cabot Weare.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN CIVIL ENGINEERING).


Herbert Ephraim French,
Oscar Greulich,
Max Lichtenstein,
Daniel Benjamin Luten,
Ralph Winthrop Newton,
Frederick Charles Noble,


Robert Kendrick Palmer,
William Pool Parker,
Richard Quinn,
Oscar Roberts,
Joseph Weare.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN BIOLOGY).
Galen Greenfield Crozier,       Samuel Denis Magers,
William LeRoy Dunn, Ph.C., M. D., Adrian John Pieters.
Warren Harmon Lewis,




TJNET.E MEETING, 1894.


291


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN CHEMISTRY).


Clare Briggs,
Lauren Duane Carr,
George Lawrence Davison,
Richard Fischer, Ph.C,,
Nellie E. Goldthwaite,


Emerson Romeo Miller, Phar. M.,
Willard R. Pyle,
Eugene Cornelius Sullivan,
Bertrand Stager Summers,
Walter George Wallace.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.


Nellie Prescott Barrett,
Marcus Calvin Boylan,
Gertrude Buck,
Katherine Barker Camp,
Robert Clair Campbell,
Henry Oliver Chapoton,
Sara den Bleyker,
Bernice Lena Haug,
William Lewis Ikenberry,


Fred Charles Kent,
Walter James Kent,
Ettie Blanch Connor Nichols,
Jessie Phelps,
Norman Wellington Price,
James Archibald Ross,
Georgia Smeallie, B.L.,
Harry Isaac VanTuyl,
Eugene Cyrus Woodruff.


BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY.


Lissa Florence Bailey,
Carl Evans Boyd,
Thomas Parks Bradfield,
Leo Martin Butzel,
George Jason Cadwell,
William Bradford Canfield,
June Carpenter,
William Herbert Charnley,
Laura Eoline Clemens,
Alexander Cumming,
Mary Ellen Duffy,
Fannie Mabel Elliott,
Robert Victor Friedman,
Willard Clark Gore,
Jessie Gertrude Harris,
Susan Heffernan,
Sarah May Howard,
W. Wallace Hurd,
Taka Kawada,
Georgietta Kennedy,
Helen Beecher King,
Carrie Emma Kirtland,
Lou Ella La Tourette,


Anna Martha MacCracken,
Walter Park Martindale,
Amanda McCombs,
Jessie Maud McIntyre,
Isabella McRae,
Jesse Cameron Moore,
Edgar Martin Morsman, Jr.,
James Bertram Overton,
William Collins Parsal,
Anna May Pemberton, B.L.,
Ohio Wesleyan Univ.,
Charles Andrew Robinson,
Annie Laurie Rooney,
Carlton Raymond Rose,
Bernard Benjamin Selling,
Ella Gertrude Shorb,
Charles Beecher Smeltzer,
Lucy Elizabeth Textor,
Anna Trainor,
George T. Tremble,
Charles Frederick Weller,
William Lincoln Whitney.


BACHELOR OF ARTS.


Charles Wallace Adams,
Fred Alexander,
Delia Sophia Bailey,
Archie Ernest Bartlett,
Ernest Nelson Bullock,
Jeannette Eliza Caldwell,
Albert Robinson Crittenden,


Josiah Dearborn,
James Henry Dickson,
Walter Wendell Drew,
John Dudley Dunham,
Dora Deett Elmer,
Harry Oliver Evans,
Ella Virginia Fitch,




292


JUNE MEETING, 1894.


Rudolph Frederick Flintermann,
Hally Frank Frederickson,
Ernest Freeman Hall,
Robert Foote Hall,
Walter Monroe Hamilton,
Winifred Ava Higbee,
Arthur Lucius Hubbard,
Gertrude Hull,
George Ingersoll, Jr.,
Robert Emmons Jones,
Barend Herman Kroeze,
Adoniram Judson Ladd,
Carl Fred Lange,
Edward Marsh,
John Ezra Miller,
Wiley Wright Mills, A.B.,
Hope College,
Joseph Raleigh Nelson,
Frederick Whittlesey Newton.
Ruth Amelia Noble,
Marion Patton,
Herbert Edmund Peckham,
Stuart Hoffman Perry,


Frank Woodworth Pine,
Almira Ann Prentice,
Albert John Rooks, A.B.,
Hope College,
Lewis Grover Seeley,
Roger Sherman,
Samuel Archibald Smith,
Henry Arthur Spalding,
Robert Clark Stevens,
Irene Stewart,
Marian Una Strong,
John Burnham Taylor,
Martha Dickinson Taylor,
William Bullock Ward,
John Wesley Welch,
Frederick McKee White,
Ross Chauncey Whitman,
Delos Franklin Wilcox,
John Arthur Whitworth,
Annie Mumford Wiley,
Frederick Doolittle Wilkerson,
Howe Allen Williams,
Cora May Willsey.


MINING ENGINEER.
Walter John Baldwin, B.S. (M.E.).
CIVIL ENGINEER.
Joseph Kendall Freitag, B.S. (C. E.), Louis Carlton Sabin, B.S. (C. E.).
MASTER OF LETTERS.


Mabel Crabbe, B.L,
Elspa Millicent Dopp, B.L.,


Walter John Hammill, B.L.


MASTER OF SCIENCE.


Elmer Ellsworth Bartlett, B.S.,
Iowa College,
Benjamin Cluff, Jr., B.S.,


Edwin Raymond Cole, B.S.,
James C. Graves, B.S.,
Albion College.


MASTER OF PHILOSOPHY.


Wirt McGregor Austin, Ph.B.,
Flora Gale Barnes, Ph.B.,
Albion College,
John Robert Effinger, Jr., Ph.B.,
Ida Bertha Paulina Fleischer, Ph.B.,
Harrison McAllister Randall, Ph.B.,


Clara Frances Stevens,
Mount Holyoke College,
Louis A. Strauss, B.L.,
Ida Dudley Travis, Ph.B.,
Albion College,
Pauline Elisabeth Wies, Ph.B.


MASTER OF ARTS.


Warren Dwight Baker, A.B.,
Virginia Beauchamp, A.B.,
Walter Dennison, A.B.,
Genevieve Katharine Duffy, A.B.,


Ceylon Samuel Kingston, A.B.,
St. Lawrence University,
Newton D. Mereness, A.B.,
William Henry Merner, A.B.,




JUNE MEETING, 1894.


293


John Augustus Munson, A-B.,  John Henry Schaffner, A.B.,
Central Univ. of Iowa,       Baker University,
Melvin Park Porter, A.B.,    Jessie Louise VanVliet, A.B.,
Henry Frederick Lewis Reichle, A.B.,  Wellesley College,
Edwin Carl Roedder, A.B.,    Louis Grant Whitehead, A.B.,
Henry Arthur Sanders, A.B.,   Harry Dale Wright, A.B.
DOCTER OF SCIENCE.
Moses Gomberg, M.S.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY.
Kennedy Brooks, A.M.,        John Patterson Davis, A.M.,
University of Wooster,   James Allen Smith, A.B.,
Benjamin Chapman Burt, A.M.,      Univ. of Missouri.
Charles Horton Cooley, A.B.,
Respecfully submitted,
P. R. DE PONT, Registrar.
Regent Barbour moved that the degrees indicated be
conferred upon the persons named in the foregoing co —
munication, in accordance with the recommendation of
the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and
the Arts.
The motion was carried.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Mr. Louis C. Sabin
was excused from attendance at Commencement on account of his being employed by the government at Sault
Ste. Marie.
Regent Barbour presented and read a memorial signed
by 135 members of the graduating class and post-graduates, asking that in future    appointments women be
given representation in the faculties of the departments
of the University.
Regent Barbour offered the following resolution which
was unanimously adopted.
Resolved, That henceforth in the selection of professors and
instructors and other assistants in instruction in the University, no
discrimination be made in selection between men and women, but
that the applicant best fitted for the position receive the appointment.
Regent Barbour presented a communication from the
Adelphi Literary Society, asking that a room be set




294


JUNE MEETING, 1894.


apart for the permanent use of the society. The request
was referred to the President and Secretary to report at
the next meeting of the Board.
Regent Barbour read a communication from Mr. Bryant Walker, executor under the will of Dr. C. L. Ford,
deceased, asking if the Board would be willing to take
the homestead property as part of the legacy bequeathed
to the University.
Regent Kiefer, who was charged with the purchase of
instruments for the Homoeopathic Hospital, reported that
he had received the following bids on the list submitted:
Melburn & Co., Detroit, $324; The Pharmaceutical Co., of
Detroit, $304.03; Kuhlman & Co., of Detroit. $265.70.
The above bids do not include the operating table. He
then submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Medical Committee be authorized to contract
with the lowest bidder for surgical instruments for the Homoeopathic Hospital; that instruments on hand and in need of repair
be repaired if possible to take the place of new ones of the same
kind asked for, and that those unfit for repairs be condemned.
The resolution was adopted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Hebard, Barbour, Cook, Dean, and Kiefer.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Medical Committee be authorized to purchase from the lowest bidder one Trendelenburg Operating Table
to be placed in care of the Superintendent of Hospitals and to be
used by both schools. The Professor desiring to use the table shall
make a requisition on the Superintendent for it, and, when the
operation is performed, the table must be returned to the Superintendentin proper order.
The resolution of Regent Kiefer was adopted by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Hebard, Barbour, Cook, Dean, and Kiefer.
Nays-None.
Regent Cook moved that Dr. Gibbes, Professor of
Pathology, be allowed an assistant at a salary of $300,




JUNE MEETING, 1894.


295


and that the Auditing Board provide for the necessary
janitor work in his laboratory.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Hebard, Barbour, Cook, Dean, and Kiefer.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Cook, the Superintendent of
Buildings was instructed to run a partition through      the
east seminary room   in the Library building at a cost not
exceeding $75, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Hebard, Barbour, Cook, Dean, and Kiefer.
Nays-None.
Regent Hebard presented and read the following
communication from     the Faculty of the School of Pharmacy.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
By direction of the Faculty of the School of Pharmacy, I beg
leave to report that the following named students have completed
all the requirements for the degrees herewith specified. They
are, therefore, recommended to you as follows:
MASTER OF PHARMACY.
L. D Havenhill, Ph.C.
PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST.
Ransom Sidney Armstrong,      Thomas E. Murdock,
Clarence Eugene Barnhart,     Marion Franklin Nichols,
Arthur Wilson Epley,          Delia O'Connor,
Lovell Farnum,                Fred Lyle Robertson,
Edward Albert Grochau,        James Seymour,
Harry Hall Hudson,            George Charles Steventon,
John Henry Jones,             John Ludwell Tegarden,
Samuel Robert Knox,           Charles Orlando Topping,
John Charles Maxwell,         Charles Henry Williams, Ph.B.,
James C. McGregor,                Adrian College,
Grace Ellen McNoah,           Parke Ernest Wise.
Allen Henry Mead,
By direction of the Faculty.
Very respectfully,
A. B. STEVENS, Secretary.
On motion of Regent Hebard, it was voted that the
degrees indicated in the foregoing communication be conferred upon the persons named, in accordance with the




296


JUNE MEETING, 1894.


recommendation of the Faculty of the School of Pharmacy.
Regent Barbour presented a plan for the enlargement
of the Law Library, which was, on motion, referred to the
Superintendent of Buildings, for an estimate of cost and
report as to the feasibility of the plan.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the secretary was
authorized to make a contract with Hild & Co., to put a
new roof on the Museum building, according to the plans
and specifications made by the Superintendent of Buildings, for the sum of $4,750.
The vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Hebard, Barbour, Cook, Dean, and Kiefer.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the Board adjourned
until to-morrow morning at 11 o'clock.
MORNING SESSION.
J U;TNE 26.
The Board assembled at 11 o'clock A. M. In addition
to those before named, Regent Fletcher was present.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Regent Dean was
made a member of the Executive Committee of the Board,
in place of Regent Fletcher, who desired to be relieved.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Regent Dean and Professor Pettee were requested to examine and check the
accounts of the treasurer and secretary for the year-Professor Pettee to receive the usual compensation.
The motion was carried by the full vote of the Board.
The following communication was received from Dean
Knowlton, of the Law Faculty:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
The Law Faculty recommend that the degrees indicated be conferred on the following named persons, they having completed the
required course of study.




JUNE MEETING, 1894.


297


BACIELOR OF LAWS.


Ned Abercrombie,
Charles Francis Adams,
Jacob Black Adams, A.B., Waynesburg College,
James Morris Adams,
Fergus Lincoln Anderson,
Fritz Edgar Anderson,
Richard Apperson,
Frederick William Ashton, B.S.,
Michigan Agricultural College,
Elmer Sylvester Avery,
Sewell Lee Avery,
Earl D Babst, Ph.B.,
George Howard Bailey,
Edward Burgoyne Baker,
Joseph Edmund Barrell,
Eugene Batavia,
'iien Samuel Beach,
Aaron Joseph Bessie,
Chauncey Rolla Bishop,
Alfred Franklin Bissell,
Milton Edward Blake,
Arthur Brown,
Milo Menoah Bruce,
Daniel John Buckley,
Charles Albert Bull,
George Jaffray Bunday,
Archibald Forbes Bunting,
Charles Wilkes Burch, Ph.B., Kansas Wesleyan Tniversity,
Charles W. Burdick,
Alexander George Burr,
William Henry Burtner, Jr..
Alvah P. Cady, B S., Olivet College,
Richard Lee Cameron,
Henry Ernest Candler, B.S.,
Edward Eugene Carr,
Rex Ronald Case,
Charles Erehart Chadman,
Frank Edgar Chamberlain,
John F. Chambers,
Charles Whitney Chapman,
Robert Clowry Chapman,
Leslie Howard Chatterson,
Ira Albert Clark,
Milton Lee Clawson,
Holbrook Gilson Cleaveland, A.B.,
Harvey Kilmer Clock,
Charles Edgar Cochran,
Fred James Cochran,
Charles John Cole, A.B., Oberlin
Ctollege,
Matthew Francis Coleman,


Michael Leo Coleman,
Edward Garland Coll,
Victor Otho Coltrane, A.B., Drury
College,
Oscar Bradbury Conant,
Herbert Thomas Condon, A B., University of Oregon,
Grant Conklin, Ph.B., Hillsdale
College,
John Peck Conrick,
Norman Bruce Countryman,
Oliver Ellsworth Cramer, A.B.,
Augustana College,
Thomas Graham Crothers, A.B,
Leland Stanford, Tr., University
James Halleck Crowell, Ph.B.,
Trinity College,
Frank Crozier, B S., Hanover College,
Alonzo Leonidas Curtis,
Thomas Whitfield Day,
Charles Arza Denison, B.L.,
Ulysses Grant Denman,
H. Clifton De Ran, B.S., A.B.,
National Normal University,
Martin John Dillon,
Frank Harry Dunnahoo,
Irving William Durfee,
Lucian Johnson Eastin,
Emma Eaton,
Walter Abijah Eckles, B.C.E., Cornell
College,
Daniel Abraham Edwards,
Willis Victor Elliott,
Henri Franklin Eshleman,
George Mark Evans,
Harvey Aretas Evans, A B.. B S.,
Southern Normal College,
George Dudley Fairbanks,
George Franklin Felts,
Raymond Marshl allFerguson,
Leonard Fiske,
Charles Fitzgerald,
Benjamin Friend,
George Washington Fuller,
Walter Shepard Fulton,
William J. Galbraith,
George Jacob Genebach,
Cyrus William George,
Vladimir August Geringer, Ph.B.,
George Gerlach,
George John Gleim,
Clifteon DWitt Gordon,
Evan Benson Goss,




298


JUNE MEETING, 1894.


Daniel Henry Grady,
Humphrey Snell Gray, A.B.,
John McAllaster Haddock,
George Halverson,
Louis Heaton Hanna,
James Joseph Harrington,
Hyrum Smith Harris,
Joseph Alma Harris,
Nathan John Harris,
William Morris Harrison, B.S,
Maryville College,
Walter Cunningham Hartman,
Ralph While Hartzell,
James Mark Harvey, Jr.,
William Perry Harvey,
John Harvey Hassinger,
Frederick Hosea Hathhorn,
Dennis Benjamin Hayes,
Robert Charles Henderson,
Edwin Charles Henning,
Lot Russel Herrick, B.L.,
Univ. of Illinois,
William Rhodes Hervey, B.L.,
Arkansas Industrial Univ.,
Albert Sylvester Hinds,
John Laurence Hollander,
Warren William Holliday,
Bernard Joseph Hope,
Orestes Easton Hopkins,
Sherman Henry Hoverter,
William Jeremiah Howard,
Harland Bradley Howe,
John Stanley Hurd, A.B.,
Jerauld John Ingle,
Samuel Pashley Irwin,
Charles Adam James,
George Henry Kane, A.B.,
Duquesne College,
William Christopher Kenaga,
Fred Alonzo Kies,
Torazo Kikuchi,
John James Kiley,
Samuel Denton Kinne,
Joseph Edgar Kirby, A.B.,
Searcy, College, 
Walter Hermann Kilk,
Jacob Koenigstein,
John Kroodsma,
Charles Henry Kubat,
Franz Christian Kuhn, B.S.,
William John Landman,
Oscar J. Larson,


Edward Fleury LeGendre,
John Adolph Lentz,
George Edward Leonard, B.S.,
Coe College,
Arthur Maurice Lewald, A.B.,
Union College,
Harry Pratt Lewis,
John Lewman,
Lewis Bonner Lindsay,
Harry Clay Livengood,
Charles Parker Locke, B.S.,
Michigan Agr. College,
William Bryan Locke,
Ira Milton Long,
Jesse B. Luse,
Elias'Wesley Marlatt, A.B.,
Geneva College,
Frederick William Marsh,
David James Marshall,
Darwin Thomas Mason, A. B,, Cornell
College,
Charles Henry Mattingly,
Russell Norman McConnell,
William Stephen McConnell,
William Herbert Lee McCourtle,
James Hugh McDonald,
Peter McDonald, A.B., German Enqlish College,
Joseph Franklin McGregor,
Charles Augustine McKnight,
Michael Leo McLaughlin,
Harry Clinton Mehan,
Albert Cyril Melchior,
William Henry Merner, A.B.,
Homer Dwight Messick, B.S., Hiram
College,
Harry Eugene Michael,
John Herbert Miller,
Allen Gurney Mills, B.S., Earlham
College,
Hugh Albert Minahan,
Robert Emmet Minahan, M.D., Rush
Medical College,
Webster V. Moffett,
J. Monroe Mohney,
Jesse Cameron Moore,
Willis Knox Moore,
Adelbert Mosher,
Robert Lee Motley, A.B., William
Jewell College,
Henry Edmund Naegely,
Louis George Nerreter,




JUNE MEETING, 1894.


299


John Blackwell Newman, A.M.,
University of Notre Dame,
Andrew Richard Nichols,
Byron Lee Oliver,
Charles Daniel Orear,
Edwin Colfax Owen,
Joseph Edmund Page,
Charles Arthur Park, A.M., University of Wooster,
Charles Chandler Parker,
Charles Lucius Parker, A.B, Upper
Iowa University,
Joseph Edwin Parker,
Robert Stone Parks,
Augustus Asa Partlow,
Harry Howard Patterson, B.S.,
Geneva College,
Louis Philip Paul,
John Vincent Pearson,
Worth Willard Pepple,
Gilbert Walter Phelps,
Clarence Abram Plank,
Edward Dwight Pomeroy,
Clarence Eugene Pope,
David Eugene Porter,
James Leonard Poston, A.B., Washburn College,
Vanvorhis Ally Powell,
John Ward Powers,
Charles Arthur Pratt, Ph.B.,
Oskaloosa College,
James Downing Putnam,
William Goodpaster Ramsey,
Charles Howard Rector,
Benjamin Franklin Reed,
Guy Leonidas Reed,
Hedley Vicars Richardson, Ph.B.,
Judson Elias Richardson,
Lulu Buffington Richardson,
Victor Howard Ringer, Ph.B.,
DePauw University,
Frank Augustus Rockhold,
Henry Theodor Ronning,
Hugh Emerson Root,
Daniel Lindsay Russell, Jr.,
Samuel McNeal Schall,
Oreon Earl Scott, A.B., Bethany College,
Raymond Gilmore Scott, A.B, Bethany College,
Bertram Shane,
James J. Sheridan,
Reuben Daniel Silliman,


Edwin Walter Sims,
Rufus Franklin Skeels,
Fred Wilbur Smith,
Hugh Carnes Smith,
Elliott Spalding,
Sherman Clark Spitzer, B.L.,
Francis Marion Springer,
Christie Alfonzo Stearns,
Clarence Claud Stearns,
Harry Lindley Stearns,
Lenn L. Stevens, A B., University of
Oregon,
James Zebulon Stewart, Jr.,
John Grover Stone,
Lewis Augustus Stoneman,
John Ephraim Swanger,
Ralph Percy Tannehill,
James Taylor,
Charles Hamilton Tindall,
John Charles Tobias,
McKenzie Robertson Todd,
Charles Henry Towle, B L.,
Julius Cuslis Travis,
Dudley Clifford True,
Henry Casinir Vidal, B.S., University of Paris,
Arthur Joseph Vinson,
John Joseph Vlach,
Luther Ogden Wadleigh, Ph.B.,
Syracuse University,
John Thomas Wagner, A.B., Ursinus
College,
John Delisle Wakely,
Frank Walters,
Henry Walters,
George Fullington Waters,
Charles Eugene Ward,
Henry William Webber,
Adolph Weinberg,
Edward McKenzie Wellman,
James Horatio Westcott,
William Erastus Wheeler, Jr.,
Bartlett Wiley,
Percy Wilson, A. B., College of New
Jersey,
Benjamin Franklin Wollman,
Walter Wellington Woodbury,
Harry Fralick Worden,
John Wright,
Harry Leroy Yartin,
George Frederick Zimmerman,
John William Zuber.




300


JUNE MEETING, 1894.


MASTER OF LAWS.
Mary Estella Benson, LL.B.,   Stephen A. Nowlin, LL B.,
Frank Leslie Bowen, LL.B.,    Purcell Rowe, LL.B.,
Charles Knox Friedman, LL B.,  Fritz Rudin, LL.B.,
Franklin Jay Griffen, LL B.,  Charles William Scrutchin, LL.B.,
Lloyd Frederick Harms, LL B.,  Oscar Ferdinand Sessinghaus, LL.B.,
Janes Stanhope Henton, LL.B.,  William Cyrus Swan, LL.B.,
Robert Albert Howard, LL.B.,  Joseph Henry Van Tassel, LL.B.,
John Bernard Hoy, LL.B.,      William Thomas Webb, LL.B.,
Francis Goewey Jones, LL.B.,  William Shipp Withers, LL B.,
Isaac Bernard Lipson. LL.B.,      Cumberlctnd University,
Fred Philip Muhlhauser, LL B.,  Herbert Agnew Wright, LL.B
Cincinnati Law College,    Northern Indiana College of Law. 21
Respectfully submitted,
J. C. KNOWLTON, DEAN.
On motion of Regent Barbour, it was voted that 'the
degrees iiidicated be conferred on the persons named in
the foregoing communication, ill accordance with recommendalioll of I he Departmeiit of Law.
Regeilt Kiefer presented and read the followilg coinmunication flrom the Faculty of the Department of' Medicine and Surgery.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
The Medical Faculty instructs me to make the following requests of you:
1. That Dr. S. M. Yutzy be continued as Instructor in Osteology and Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy, salary, $1,000.
2. That Mr. F. W. Negler be appointed Instructor in Electrotherapeutics, in place of Dr. Blair, and at the same salary, $900.
3. Tliat Dr. Breakey be permanently appointed, with such
increase in salary as the Regents will allow. If I may be permitted,
I will say that Dr. Breakey has done his work with great credit to
himself and benefitrto the students. His present salary is $500.
4. That Dr. M. L. Belser be continued as Instructor in
Pathology, salary, $900.
5. That Dr. Lynds be continued as Demonstrator in Obstetrics and Gynaecology, salary, $500.
6. That Dr. William G. Rice be appointed Demonstrator of
Ophthalmic and Auric Surgery and Clinical Opthalmology and
Otology, in place of Dr. Suker, and at the same salary, $500.
7. That Dr. C. G. Darling be continued as Demonstrator of
Surgery, salary, $500.




JUNE MEETING, 1894.


301


8. That Dr. William A. MacGugan be continued as Demonstrator of Nervous Diseases, salary, $500.
9. That Dr. A. S. Warthin be continued as Demonstrator of
Clinical Medicine, salary, $500.
10. That Dr. J. Foster be appointed.Assistant to the Professor
of Ophthalmic and Aural Surgery and Clinical Ophthalmology, in
place of Dr. Sauermann, and at tile same salary, $100.
11. That Dr. J. McClynmonds be appointed Assistant to the
Professor of Surgery in the place of Dr. Dunn, arid at the same
salary, $100.
12. That Dr. Jeanne C. Solis be reappointed Assistant to the
Professor of Nervous Diseases, salary, $100.
13. That Dr. T. L. Chadbourne be appointed as Assistant to
the Professor of Theory and Practice, in place of Dr. Bishop, and
at the same salary, $100.
14. That Dr. J. W. Foley be appointed Assistant to the Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases cf Women, in place of Dr. Clark,
and at the same salary, $100.
15. That Dr. E. M. Houghton be appointed Assistant to the
Professor of Materia Medica aud Therapeutics, in place of Dr. Muirhead, and at the same salary, $509.
16. That Mr. S. P. Budgett be reappointed Assistant in Physiology, salary, $500.
17. That Dr. A. B. Olsen be appointed Assistant in Histology,
in place of Dr. Roberts, and at the same salary. $300.
18. That Mr. O. H. Freeland be made Laboratory clerk in
the Electrotherapeutic Laboratory, at the same salary as that of
his predecessor, $100.
19. We ask that the salary of the Hospital Physician be
divided, $300 being given to one man and $200 to another, and we
recommend for these places, Dr. E. A. Murbach, as Hospital Surgeon at a salary of $300, and Dr. A. W. Crane, as Hospital Physician, at a salary of $200. These men are to take the places occupied last year by Drs. Reed and Hall and the salary of Dr. Reed is
to be divided between the two.
20. We ask that Mr. F. S. Bourns, Mr. J. E. Brown, and Miss
Elizabeth Campbell, be appointed Assistant Demonstrators of
Anatomy, in the place of those who have served during the past
year, and at the same salary, $200 each.
21. That Dr. Carlton D. Morris be appointed Assistant in
Physiological Chemistry, in the place of Mr. E. H. Robertson, and
at the same salary, $196.




302


JUNE MEETING, 1894.


22. \We ask that the degree of M. D. be conferred upon Thos.
H. Briggs, M. D., of Battle Creek, Mich. Dr. Briggs entered the
Medical Department in 1860, and did good work until he was appointed Assistant Surgeon in the army. Before the close of the
war, and while stationed at Nashville, he continued his medical
studies and obtained the degree of M. D. from the University of
Nashville. Since the war, Dr. Briggs has practiced nedicine with
credit and honor in Battle Creek. Three of his daughters have
attended the Literary Department, and the Doctor is a firm friend
of the University. We hope that this request will be granted. We
ask that the diploma be granted to him as a member of the Class
of 1862.
In addition to the above requests, which come from the Medical Faculty, as Director of the Hygienic Laboratory I have the
following requests for reappointment to make:
I. That Dr. Charles T. McClintock be reappointed Assistant
in Hygiene, with the same salary he had last year, $400.
2. That Mr. Charles E. Marshall be reappointed Dispensing
Clerk in the Hygienic Laboratory, at the same salary which he had
during the past year, $200.
Respectfully submitted,
V. C. VAUGHAN, Dean.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the appointments recommended in the foregoincg communication were made,
and the degree of M. D. was conferred on Thomas H.
Briggs, M. D., as of the class of 1862, by the following
vote:
Ayes-Regents Hebard, Barbour, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, and
Fletcher.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the title of Dr. W. A.
Campbell, Demonstrator of Anatomy, was changed to
Assistant Professor of Anatomy with the same salary and
duties as before.
Regent Kiefer moved that a sum not exceeding $600
be appropriated for disinfecting, cleaning, painting and
oiling floors, and for general repairs in the University
Hospital-the work to be done during the summer vacation.




JUNE MEETING, 1894.


303


The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Hebard, Barbour, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, and
Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer moved that the title of the Instructor
in Pathology be changed to Instructor in Pathology and
Demonstrator of Autopsies; that a fee of $5 be charged
each studentfor instruction in making autopsies; aiid that
the money received from such fees, not exceeding $400,
be divided as follows: Two-thirds to the demonstrator
and one-third to the student assistant in the Pathological
Laboratory.
The motion of Regent Kiefer was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Hehard, Barbour, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, and
Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer presented and read a communication
from the American Institute of Homceopathy, in session
at Denver, Colorado, asking this Board to remove Dr. H.
L. Obetz from the Faculty of the Homoeopatlic College.
The communication was referred to the Medical Comtmittee for consideration.
Regent Barbour presented and read a communication
from the Faculty of the Law Department, relating to the
appointing of special lecturers and other needs of the
department, which was, on motion, referred to the Law
Committee.
The Board then took a recess to 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock P. M. In addition
to those before named, Regent Butterfield was present.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following
communication from the graduating class of the Literary
Department:




304


JUNE MEETING, 1894.


SCHOLARSHIP FUND OF THE CLASS OF 1894.
ANN AHBOR, MICH., June 26, 1894.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
During tle early part of the present college year the graduating class of '94 had under consideration a Class Memorial to be left
to the University. At a class meeting it was determined to raise a
fund by subscription from tile members of the class of two thousand
dollars, to be known as the SCHOLARSHIP FUND OF THE CLASS OF '94.
A committee was appointed to raise a subscription. A subscription
book was opened, in which the subscribing members of the class
agreed to pay towards the said fund the amounts set opposite their
names. These amounts range from five to fifty dollars. In connection with said subscription each subscriber has given a note.
To this fund tile full sum of two thousand dollars had been subscribed.
In consideration of the premises, at a recent class meeting the
following action waa taken by the class: The graduating class of
'94 in tile Literary Department of the University of Michigan do
hereby present the fund subscribed to tile " Scholarship Fund of
the Class of '94" to the Board of Regents of said University for
the following uses and purposes, to-wit:
1. That tile said Board of Regents shall keep invested the
moneys re(eived by tlhe treasurer of the University from said subscription notes, and shall loanL tle income thereof annually towards
the support of such student or stludents as may be pursuing a
course of instruction in said University as candidates for a Bachelor's Degree in the Literary Department, and may, in the judgment
of the Board, be deserving of the same.
2. That said Board shall require of such student or students
as may receive the benefit of said fund a promise to repay to said
Board the sums loaned, on such terms as shall seem to said Board
to be reasonable; it being tile intention of the donors of said fund
that the same shall be kept intact, as far as possible, the income
thereof to be used as a loan fund for the benefit of needy and worthy
undergraduates in the Literary Department of said University.
The subscribers to said fund desire to turn over to the Board
the subscription book and subscription notes; and hope that the
trust herein created will be accepted by the Board as a Class Memorial from the Literary Graduates of 1894 in said University of
Michigan.
D. F. LYONS, President of Class.
JESSIE M. MACINTYRE, Secretary of Class.
CHAS. J. HARMON, Chairman of
Subscription Committee.




JUNE MEETING, 1894.


305


Regent Barbour moved that the Board accept this
trust. and that the President convey to the Class of '94
the grateful acknowledgments of the Board for their wise
and generous action and express the hope that their action
mnay prove an incentive to future classes, greatly to enlarge tlhis fund for the benefit of worthy needy students
desiring an education.
This motion received the unanimous approval of the
Board.
Regent Barbour moved that a committee of four, with
the President as chairman, be appointed as a standing
committee of the Board, to be known as the Investment
Committee, who shall have charge of all the gift funds
and invest the same. The motion was carried, and the
President named Regents Barbour, Cocker, Hebard, and
Dean as such committee.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Miss Georgia Smeallie
was excused from attendance.on Commencement day, on
account of the dangerous illness of her aunt.
The Board then took up the consideration of the
steam heating plans. Plans and estimates were received
from the following firms:
Wells, Newton & Co., of Chicago.
Shaw, Kendall & Co., of Toledo.
A. Harvey's Sons Manufacturing Co., of Detroit.
For putting in an electric lighting plant, bids were
received from:
The General Electric Company, of Chicago.
The Louis K. Comstock Co., of Chicago.
Fisher Electrical Manufacturing Co., of Detroit.
Regent Butterfield moved the following appointments
in the Law Department, for one year from October 1, 1894:
Thomas M. Cooley, LL. D., Lecturer on Interstate Commerce,
salary to be arranged.
Marshall D. Ewell, LL. D., Non-Resident Lecturer on Medical Jurisprudence, salary, $400.
2




306


JUNE MEETING, 1894.


James L. High, LL. D., Non-Resident Lecturer on Injunctions and Receivers, salary, $400.
John B. Clayberg, LL. B., Non-Resident Lecturer on Mining
Law, salary, $300.
Melville M. Bigelow, Ph. D., Non-Resident Lecturer on Insurance, salary, $500.
George H. Lathrop, Ph. B., Non-Resident Lecturer on Patent
Law, salary, $100.
Henry H. Swan, A. M., Non-Resident Lecturer on Admiralty
Law, salary, $350.
Andrew C. McLaughlin, A. B., LL. B., Lecturer on Constitutional Law and History, without salary.
Victor C. Vaughan, Ph. D., M. D., Lecturer on Toxicology in
its Legal Relations, without salary.
Henry C. Adams, Ph. D., Lecturer on the Railroad Problem,
without salary.
Richard Hudson, A. M., Lecturer on Comparative Constitutional Law, without salary.
The above appointments were made by the following
vote:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour, Cook, Dean,
Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Regent Barbour moved that Thomas A. Bogle, LL. B.,
be appointed Professor of Law     for one year, to have
charge of the Practice Court, and to discharge such other
duties as may be assigned him, it being understood that
he shall devote his entire time to the work, at salary
of $2,000.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour, Cook, Dean,
Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Regent Dean moved that Elias F. Johnson, B. S.,
LL.M., be reappointed Instructor in Law for one year at a
salary of $1,000, and that Walter D. Smith be appointed
Instructor in Law for one year at a salary of $600.




JUNE MEETING, 1894.


307


The motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour, Cook, Dean,
Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Board adjourned
to 7:30 P. M.
EVENING SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 7:30 P. M.
The Board listened to Dr. H. L. Obetz, Dean of the
Homoeopathic College, in explanation of the resolutions
which were passed by the American Institute of Homoeopathy, at Denver, Colorado, and which ask for his removal from the Faculty.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the following communication fiom the Dean of the Medical Faculty.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-The following named persons, having complied
with all the requirements, are recommended by the Faculty of the
Department of Medicine and Surgery, for the degree of Doctor of
Medicine.


Ernest Marion Adams,
Minnie Maud Allen,
Robert Bruce Armstrong, Ph.C.,
James Rae Arneill, A.B., Lawrence
University,
Meritt Moses Ayers,
Frithiof Emil Berge,
Clarissa Sophia Bigelow, Ph.B.,
Vacil Demetroff Bozovsky,
James Fleming Breakey,
Christopher Brogan,
George Warner Burleigh,
Edgar Robert St. John Caro,
Theodore Lincoln Chadbourne, B.S.,
Willis Earl Chapman,
Augustus Warren Crane,
John Alexander Donovan,
Calvin R. Elwood,


John William Foley,
Joseph Foster, B.S., Mich. Agr. Coll.,
John Henry Frost, Ph.C.,
Jos6 Ramon Gallegos,
William Aaron George,
John Evans Gernand, B.L.,
Stephen Clifton Glidden,
James Louis Heard,
Clarence Burke Hernam,
Howard Herrlngton,
Frederick William Heysett,
Brainard Spencer Higley, Jr.,
Minnie Hoagland,
Elijah Mark Houghton, Ph.C.,
Annie Ives,
Herbert Perry Kellogg,
Leverge Knapp, Ph.B.,
Daniel Hartman Kress,




308


JUNE MEETING, 1894.


Lauretta Kress,
Edward Lowry Martindale,
Charles Thomas McClintock, Ph.D,
Julian McClymonds,
Orianna McDaniel,
Robert McGregor,
George Edwin McKean,
Edward Everett McKnight,
Edgar Calvin LeRoy Miller,
Carlton Dolphin Morris,
Frank Edwin Moyer,
Edwin Andrew Murbach, A.B.,
Heidelberg College,
Stephen Grant Olmsted,
Alfred Berthier Olsen,


Fred Wheeler Palmer,
Norton Hills Pardon,
John Abraham Pratt,
Howard Frederick Rand,
William Henry Rheinfrank,
Delia Maud Rice, A.B., Knox College,
Albert Philip Steinhart, Ph G., New
York College of Pharmacy,
Edith Sturges,A.B., Wellesley College,
Adolph Tyroler,
Peter Martin van den Berg,
Clark Randolph Wilcoxson,
Albert Stotiff Wilson,
Ephraim Harrison Winter,
Walter George Wright.


Respectfully submitted,
V. C. VAUGHAN, Dean.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, it was voted that the
degree of M. D. be conferred on the persons named in the
foregoing communication, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Medicine
and Surgery.
In accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Homaeopathic Medical College, it was voted
that the degree of M. D. be conferred on the following
persons:


Charles Augustus Critchlow,
Charlie Gifford Jenkins,
Frederick Charles Kruemling,
Lester Elmer Peck,


Susan Emo Pullin,
Cora Luarky Stitt,
Glenn Guy Towsley,
Burt Dexter Walker.


On motion of Regent Dean, the Board adjourned to
10 o'clock to-morrow morning.


MORNING SESSION.
JUINE 27.
The Board assembled at 10 o'clock A. M. and on motion
of Regent Barbour went into executive session.
On the recommendation of the Law Faculty the degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on John Furness
Peters.




JUNE MEETING, 1894.


309


On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Board accepted
the proposition of A. G Spalding and Bro. to equip the
Gymnasium, as per list furnished, tor the sum of $1,400;
also the proposition of the Keyless Lock Co., of Indianapolis, to furnish 750 lockers with keyless locks, for $2.50
each.
The vote on this motion was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour, Cook, Dean,
Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Regent Fletcher presented a communication from the
athletic committee relating to water closets on the Athletic Grounds, which was, on motion, laid on the table.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Regent Fletcher and
Dr. Fitzgerald were requested to recommend a suitable
person for Instructor in the Gymnasium.
Regent Hebard moved that twenty-five dollars be
appropriated for printing a supplement to the catalogue of
chemical graduates.
The appropriation was made by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour, Cook, Dean,
and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Regent Butterfield submitted the following resolutions, which were adopted.
Resolved, That each student applying for graduation in the Law
Department, shall be required to take in his own handwriting notes
of the several lectures delivered in the courses required for graduation, in proper book or books, which he shall from time to time, on
request, deliver to the several professors for examination.
Resolved, That it shall be the duty of the several lecturers in
the Law Department to examine from time to time the notes on the
lectures delivered by them, and the character of the notes so taken
shall be considered in determining the question of graduating
students.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the question of the
University taking the homestead property of the Ford




310


JUNE MEETING, 1894.


estate, as part of the bequest of Dr. Ford, was referred
to the Investment Committee for consideration.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Board went into
executive session.
The Board took into consideration the subject of
appointments, reappointments, and changes in the Faculty
of the Literary Department, and took action as follows:
The title of Professor James A. Craig, Ph.D., was
changed to Professor of Semitic Languages and Literatures and Hellenistic Greek.
The following persons were reappointed Assistant
Professors for three years, at the salary of $1,600:
Alexander Ziwet, C. E., Mathematics.
George W. Patterson, Jr., A. M., S. B., Physics.
George A. Hench, Ph. D., German.
Alfred H. Lloyd, Ph.D., was appointed Acting Assistant Professor of Philosophy for one year, salary, $1,600.
The following persons were reappointed Instructors
for three years, salary, $1,200:
George 0. Higley, M. S., General Chemistry.
David M. Lichty, M. S., General Chemistry.
Max Winkler, Ph. D., German.
The following persons were reappointed Instructors
for one year, salary, $900:
Jonathan A. C. Hildner, A. M., German.
Benjamin P. Bourland, A. M., French.
John R. Effinger, Jr., Ph.M., French.
Julius O. Schlotterbeck, Ph. C., B. S., Pharmacognosy and
Botany.
Herbert F. De Cou, A. M., Greek and Sanskrit.
Ernest H. Mensel, A. M., German.
Lawrence A. McLouth, A. B., German.
Earle W. Dow, A. B., History.
George E. Dawson, A. B., English.
Moses Gomberg, Sc.D., Organic Chemistry.
Clarence G. Wentmore, B. S., Descriptive Geometry and
Drawing.




JUNE MEETING, 1894.


311


Karl E. Guthe, Ph. D., Physics.
Tobias Diekhoff, A. B., German.
George A. Miller, Ph. D., Mathematics.
William F. Edwards, B. S., Organic Chemistry, and Accountant in the Chemical Laboratory.
Sidney D. Townley, M. S., Astronomy.
Henry A. Sanders, A. M., Latin.
Clarence L. Meader, A. B., Latin.
W. D. Johnston, A. M., was appointed Instructor in History,
salary, $900.
The following   reappointments were made for one
year:
Alice L. Hunt, Assistant in Drawing, salary, $750.
Fred P. Jordan, A. B., Assistant in the General Library, in
charge of the catalogue, salary, $900.
Byron A. Finney, A.B., Assistantin the General Library, in
charge of circulation, salary, $900.
Anderson H. Hopkins, Ph. B., Assistant in the General Library,
salary, $900.
Charles H. Cooley, Ph. D., Assistant in Political Economy,
salary, $500.
Frank H. Dixon, Ph. B., Assistant in Political Economy, salary,
$400.
David L. Davoll, Jr., Ph. C., Assistant in Qualitative Analysis,
salary, $200.
Perry F. Trowbridge, Ph. B., Assistant in Qualitative Analysis,
salary $250.
Louis A. Strauss, Ph.M., Assistant in English, salary, $300.
William  H. Andrews and James Seymour, Ph.C.,
were appointed, for one year, Assistants in Qualitative
Analysis, the former at a salary of $200, and the latter,
$196.
Charles E. Garman, A.M., of Amherst College, was
elected Professor of Philosoply, salary, $2,700. J. H.
Powers was elected    Instructor in Philosophy, salary,
$900.*
The salary of Professor Freer was fixed at $2,700 from
Oct. 1, next.


* Professors Garman and Powers declined to accept these appointments.




312


JUNE MEETING, 1894.


The result of the vote on the foregoing was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour, Cook, Dean,
Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
The Board took a recess to 2:30 P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2:30 P. M.
Regent Butterfield moved that the thanks of the
Board be tendered to Judge Taft for his able address to
the Law Class, and that 600 copies of the same be printed
for distribution. The motion was carried by unanimous
vote.
Regent Hebard submitted the following resolution,
which was unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That the thanks of this Board be returned to the
Chicago Alumni Association for the gift of the large flags which
were flown from the Administration and Horticultural Buildings at
the Columbian Exposition, and for a representative collection
(known as Dr. Witte's Collection for Colleges) of organic chemicals,
which are presented to the School of Pharmacy.
Regent Barbour, chairman of the committee on the
Literary Department, reported that in the judgment of
the committee, Professor Steere should be asked to resign,
and that the salaries of Professors O. C. Johnson and W.
H. Pettee should be made $1,600 and $2,500 respectively.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the report was adopted
by the unanimous vote of the Board.
Regent Butterfield moved that the Medical Committee be requested to carefully investigate the Medical Department and see if' there were not some employees there
who could be spared. The motion was carried.
The Board then took a recess to 7:30 o'clock p. M.




JUNE MEETING, 1894.


313


EVENING SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 7:30 o'clock.
Professor Stanley addressed the Board on matters relating to placing the Columbian Organ in U niversity Hall.
Regent Butterfield submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That such sum as may be necessary, not exceeding
in all one thousand dollars, be appropriated to make such changes
in this building as shall be necessary for the erection therein of
the Columbian Organ, and that the wlole matter be referred to the
Committee on Buildings and Grounds, with full power to make contracts, etc., for such changes.
Regent Butterfield's resolution was adopted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour, Cook, Dean,
Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Regent Barbour moved that a committee of three be
appointed to inquire into the expediency of introdulcing
military instruction and drill in the University.  The
motion was carried and the President named Regents
Dean, Cook, and Butterfield, as sucl committee.
On motion of Regent Dean, Tap)pan Hall was accepted
as completed under the contract.
Regent Barbour moved tliat the Department of English be allowed a student assistant for one year, at a salary
of $300. The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour, Cook, Dean,
Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the following communication from the Faculty of the Dental Department.
To the Honorable Board of Regents.
The following named persons having completed the course in
Dental Surgery, are herewith recommended for the degree of Doctor
of Dental Surgery:




314


JUNE MEETING, 1894.


Della Cordelia Ostrander Adams,
Frank Paxson Adams,
Charles Francis Amsden,
Otto Anderson,
Adelbert Hawthorne Babcock,
Edwin Irving Backus,
Andrew Spencer Bailey, B S., Lawrence University,
Roy Edwin Bailey,
Fred William Blake,
Henry Martyn Bridgman,
Damon Isaiah Butler,
Thomas Sherman Buzzard,
Anthony Joseph Casey,
Charles Douglas Cassidy,
Frederick Henry Codding,
Estus Hammond Coller,
Gerald Willard Collins,
Robert Edgar Davies,
Frank Benjamin Dawley,
James King Douglas,
William Booth Elster,
Edward Leigh Gedney,
William E Goucher,
Myron Perry Green,
Harry Loyal Griswold,
Alfred Whipple Hall,
William Anthony Hart,
Garrett Sylvester Hartley,
Charles Pinckney Haselden,
George Elba Hathaway,
William Josiah Higgins,
John Louis Hoover,


Homer Fall Hussey, Ph.B., Earlham
College,
George Renshaw Johnson,
George Wesley Kenson,
Allen Huylar Kessler,
Joseph Lathrop, Jr.,
Charles Cummings Lick,
Mary Linde,
Robert Bruce Mackenzie,
Michael Joseph McCormick,
Charles Aloysius McGettigan, Jr.,
James Archibald McIndoe,
Walter Charles McKinney,
Anna Katharine Miller,
Charles Lester Mitchell,
Albert Francis Monroe,
George McWilliams Moore,
Miles Jacob Moyer,
Allen Eugene Mulder,
Forest Joseph Overholt,
Barnum Herbert Pearce,
Benjamin Franklin Pearce,
George Andrew Servis,
Frank Lee Stow.
Harvey Arthur Sturdevant,
Dean Nathaniel Swift,
Charles Henry Terry,
Charles Reed Vanderbelt,
Albert Wesley Weible,
Charles Traver Whinery,
Walter Morey Wilkins,
Wallace V. Wolvin,
George Philip Wurster.
spectfully submitted,
J. TAFT, Dean.


It was moved by Regent Kiefer, and carried, that the
degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery be conferred on the
persons named.
Regent Barbour moved that in putting in the new
heating plant, tie Conduit System be adopted.
The motion received- the unanimous support of, the
Board.
Regent Butterfield submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, that the proposition of A. Harvey's Sons Manufacturing Company, Limited, to construct a central heating plant on the




JUNE MEETING, 1894.


315


University grounds for the sum of $44,150, be accepted, provided
the said Harvey's Sons Manufacturing Company will make amended
specifications, execute a contract, and give the required bonds and
guarantees, all of which must be satisfactory to the Committee on
Buildings and Grounds, and no liability shall attach to the University until all the necessary papers are executed. At which time
the Committee on Buildings and Grounds are hereby authorized to
proceed with the work, make estimates and authorize the payment
of the same, and in all ways to act for the Board of Regents in the
erection and completion of said works.
Tile resolution was adopted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour, Cook, Dean,
Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
By a unanimous vote the following honorary degrees
were conferred:
MASTER OF ARTS.
On Floyd Russell Mechem, and on Otto Kirchner, professors
in the Law Department; and on Rev. Frank O'Brien, of Kalamazoo,
Mich.
DOCTOR OF LAWS.
On George Miller Sternberg, M. D., Surgeon General of the
United States Army; on Mark Walrod Harrington, A. M., Chief of
the Weather Bureau; and on Professor George Herbert Palmer,
A.M., of Harvard University.
The Board adjourned to 12 o'clock to morrow.
THURSDAY'S SESSION.
J-UI   E  2S8,
The Board assembled at 4 o'clock P. M., Regent Hebard in the chair.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the President was
requested to convey the thanks of the Board to the Standard Electric Company, of Chicago, for the following valuable Sifts to the Physical Laboratory of this University:




316


JUNE MEETING, 1894.


One ten-light Transformer.
One thirty-light Transformer.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the Executive Committee were authorized to employ an instructor to take
the work of Professor Steere, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, Barbour, Cook, Dean,
Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Regents Kiefer, Barbour,
and Butterfield were appointed a committee to inquire
into the feasibility of establishing the technical schools in
the Literary Department into a department by themselves,
independent of the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and to report at the October meeting.
Regent Butterfield moved, that the title of E. F.
Johnson be made Assistant Professor of Law, without
change of salary. The motion was laid on the table.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following
communication from    Professor F. N. Scott, which was
accepted and adopted, and the thanks of the Board were
tendered to Professor Scott for his interest in the matter.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
Two years ago there was established by your action a University Art Fund, to be used in purchasing material to illustrate the
course in _Esthetics. The charge of the Fund was intrusted to the
President, the Librarian, and myself. At the close of the last collegiate year, having determined to give up the course in iEsthetics
in order to devote myself wholly to the Rhetoric courses, I proposed
to transfer my share in the management of the Fund to Professor
Dewey, who took charge of the 1Esthetics. Since there were, however, some accounts outstanding, the direction of the Fund, at Professor Dewey's request, was allowed to remain as it was. At the
present writing these accounts have been closed, and I therefore
desire to withdraw from further connection with the Fund.
The total amount collected by me, mainly from citizens of
Detroit, was $297.32, all of which, as shown by vouchers, has been
disbursed. To the sums contributed, as shown on the books, may




JUNE MEETING, 1894.


317


be added about fifty dollars worth of photographs and slides which
I have myself given to the collection from time to time.
The collection now comprises 520 photographs and 300 stereopticon slides. The photographs, mostly of large size, have been
selected with much care to illustrate certain phases of art. They
have been selected according to a definite plan, and will form, I
think, a proper nucleus for a large collection, should the Fund
receive further contributions at any future time. The slides were
prepared from the photographs under my personal direction.
Both photographs and slides have been used to a considerable
extent for instruction in the University and for University extension work throughout the State.
The collection, though small, is by no means discreditable to
the University. I would venture to suggest, therefore, that it be
given a distinctive name and that some mention of it be made.in
the University Calendar. I will also suggest that as the course in
Esthetics was established by Professor George S. Morris (at a
time when the subject was not as yet recognized in the philosophical courses of any American University), it would be fitting to name
this collection the Morris Memorial Art Collection.
Very respectfully,
FRED N. SCOTT.
On motion of Regent Cook, the Board adopted a vote
of thanks to Professor Palmer for his scholarly and
eloquent Commencement Address, and requested a copy
of the manuscript for publication.
On motion of Regent Barbour the Secretary was
requested to call the Board together again on the third
Wednesday in July, if in the judgment of the Auditing
Board a meeting was desirable at that time.
The Board then adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




SEPTEMBER MEETING.
1894.
UNIVERSITY OF MIICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, September 19, 1894.4
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10:00 o'clock a. m.
Present-Regents Barbour, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, and
Fletcher.
Absent-Regents Butterfield, Hebard, and Cocker.
On motion of IRegent Barbour the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
'The President submitted the following report of the
Executive Committee:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
GENTLEMIEN.-The Executive Committee beg leave respectfully
to report that on June 30th they appointed as Assistants in the
Botanical Laboratory, to fill vacancies:
John H. Schaffner, A. M., Graduate Assistant for one year,
salary $300.
Edwin H. Edwards, B. S., Second Assistant, salary $200.
Tlese salaries are the samle as those paid to their predecessors. During vacation they have also made the following appointments to fill vacancies:
George Rebec, Ph. B., Instructor in Philosophy for one year,
salary $900.
Frank R. Lillie, Ph. D., Instructor in Zoology for one year,
salary $900.
Daniel B. Luten, B. S., Instructor in Engineering for one
year, salary $900.
John Bigham, Ph. D., Instructor in Philosophy for one year,
salary $900.
JAMES B. ANGELL, President.




322


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1894.


The report, on motion of Regent Fletcher, was accepted and adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Regent Dean submitted the following resolution
which was adopted:
Resolved, That all resolutions and motions presented for the
consideration of the Board be reduced to writing before action is
taken thereon by the Board.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the consideration of the
communication of the American Institute of H1omoeopathy and the Intercollegiate committee was postponed
until the next meeting of the Board.
Regent Kiefer of the Medical Committee, who was
charged with the purchase of instruments for the Homoeopathic Hospital, reported progress and asked for further
time, which was granted.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Mr. Keene Fitzpatrick
was appointed instructor in the Gymnasium for one year
at a salary of $800, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cook, Dean, Keifer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the rent of a locker
in the Gymnasium was fixed at $2.00 per year.
Regent Barbour moved that Willard C. Gore, Ph. B.,
be appointed Assistant in English for one year, at a salary of $300.
The vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Regent Barbour moved that the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds be requested to prepare plans and
estimates for water closets in the east end of the main
building, and report to the next meeting of the Board.
The motion was carried.
On motion of Regent Barbour the use of the rooms




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1894.


323


in the fourth story of the main building was tendered to
the Alpha Nu and Adelphi Literary Societies.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds was directed to construct a cistern
of 400 barrels capacity, and to conduct the water from
adjacent buildings to the same for use in the boilers. A
call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes- Regents Barbour, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays -None.
Regent Kiefer presented a memorandum     submitting
the following resolution, which was adopted:
Resolved, That the memorandum concerning the establishing
of a technical school distinct from the Department of Literature,
Science, and the Arts be referred to the Committee on Literary Department. to consult with the President and the Professors of the
Engineering course now in existence and report before the Budget
for the college year 1895-96 is considered.
Regent Dean, chairman of the Special Committee to
consider the expediency of introducing military instruction and drill in the University, reported progress and
asked for further time, which was granted.
On motion of Regent Cook, the Board adjourned to
2:00 o'clock p. m.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2:00 o'clock p. m., Regent
Butterfield having arrived.
The Board gave Professor J. B. Steere an opportunity
to be heard in relation to the action of the Board in asking him to resign his professorship.
Regent Butterfield submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That a sum n-ot to exceed $175 be appropriated to
enclose with double glass sash the large porch in the law department and to alter one of the windows to a door leading thereto,
and that $150 be appropriated to the purchase and the altering of
stationary seats in the library room.




324


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1894.


Resolved, That Mr. Reeve be requested to furnish the
Board with estimate of the expense of enclosing with tin pipes the
heating pipe and connecting register in the basement of the law
building.
The foregoing resolutions were adopted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Barbour, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, and
Fletcher.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, Mr. Evon L. Evans
was appointed clerk of thie Practice Court in the law department for one year at a salary of' $100 by the following
vote:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Barbour, Cook, Dean, Keifer, and
Fletcher.
Nays-None.
Oni motion of Regent Butterfield, the Board went into executive session.
Regent Barbour submitted the followilng resolution
which was adopted:
Resolved, That the position of Professor of Zoology be declared vacant, to take effect the 30th inst.
Regent Butterfield, on the part of the Law Conlmmittee,
reported to the Board the conditions on which Prof. Harry
B. Hutchins, Ph. B., writes that he could accept a professorship in the Law Department and also the Deanship,
viz: A salary of $3,000 as Professor and a salary of $1,000
as Deal, the assignment of the same subjects on which
lie now lectures, the use of a stenographer and an office.
He then submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That thle President be requested to communicate
with Prof. I-utchinls, and inform him tlhat his proposition to accept
tlhe duties of Professor and Dean of thle Law Departfment is accepted,
and request him to begin thle work at the begiinning of tlhe Second
Semester, and to assure himi that tlhe Faculty will unanimously aid
him in every reasonable way lie may require.
T'he vote onl Regent Butterfield's resolution was as
follows:




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1894.             325
Ayes -Regents Butterfield, Barbour, Cook, Dean, Keifer, and
Fletcher.
Nays-None.
0O  motion of Regent Barbour, the question of alter
ing and repairing the seats in the amphitheatre of University Hospital was referred to the Medical Committee
for consideration.
On motion of Regent, Barbour the matter was referred
to the Secretary with power.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Secretary was authorized to put shades on the windows in Tappan Hall
when required by the professors.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Wednesday, October 24th, 1894.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




OC'I1OBER MEETING.
1894.
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Butterfield, Barbour, Cocker, Cook
Dean, Fletcher, Kiefer, and Hebard.
Absent-None.
Sundry papers which had reached the President were
referred to appropriate (ommittees of the Board.
The President stated that his Annual Report had been
prepared and was subject to the wishes of the Board. The
Board expressed a desire to hear the Report read, which
was done, Regent Barbour being in the chair.
The Report is as follows:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, Oct. 24, 1894. 
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
I present to you my Annual Report for the year ending September 30, 1894.
The University has been called to mourn th3 loss of
several men who had rendered her valuable service.
Hon. Lyman Decatur Norris, who was appointed
Regent in 1883 to fill a vacancy, and who served one year,
died at Grand Rapids January 7,1894, aged seventy years.
He was the first student matriculated in this University.
He was a man of high intelligence, pure character, and a
worthy reputation as a lawyer.  He always cherished a
deep interest in the University.
On May 25 Regent Henry Howard died at Port Huron,
aged sixty-six. Mr. Howard was elected Regent in 1890.
He was a man of marked ability for business, of the




:328


OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


highest integrity, and of a strong sense of private and
public duty. Until fatal illness seized him, he devoted
himself to the interests of the University with the greatest
fidelity.
On August 6 ex-Regent Austin Blair, after a prolonged
illness, died at his home in Jackson. He served the full
term of eight years as Regent from 1882 to 1890. A graduate of Union College, a man of large experience in public
life, a lawyer of acuteness and learning, a leader with high
intellectual and moral ideals and with the most fearless
spirit, he was able to render the University large service
by his wise counsels and by his addresses to the legislature.
He was Governor of this State from 1861 to 1865, and a
Representative in Congress from 1867 to 1873. He filled
both offices with conspicuous ability. Few men, if any,
have done more for the State of Michigan than Austin
Blair. This University in recognition of his worth conferred on him the degree of Doctor of Laws in 1890.
On September 29, 1894, Professor Joseph Estabrook,
D. D., died at Olivet, at the age of seventy-four years. As
a High School teacher, Principal of the State Normal
School, Professor in Olivet College, State Superintendent
of Public Instruction, and Regent of the University (from
1870 to 1878), his services to education in Michigan had
been eminently conspicuous. As a preacher his influence
had been large and most beneficent.
On June 29, 1894, Henry D. Bennett, who was Secretary and Steward from 1866 to 1883, died at Pasadena,
Cal. His service fell in a period of signal development of
the University. He is remembered with respect and affection by the many teachers and students who were brought
into relations with him.
On April 14, Corydon L. Ford, the senior Professor in
the Department of Medicine and Surgery in the University, died suddenly at his residence in this city. He had
just completed his fortieth course of lectures to our stu



OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


329


dents, and was to retire as Professor Emeritus.  He had
reached his eightieth year. Having obtained his general
and medical education in the face of great obstacles, he
began teaching as early as 1830, and devoted his whole life
to the profession. He lectured in Medical Schools at Buffalo, Castleton, Vt., Brunswick, Me., Brooklyn, N. Y., as
well as in our school. In clearness and aptness of statement, in the arrangement of his matter, in his power to
illustrate by dissection while he lectured, he has probaby
not been surpassed by any teacher of Anatomy in this
country. The simplicity and purity of his character and
the earnestness of his religious spirit, left a deep impress
on the thousands of his pupils. He testified his devotion
to the University not only by his long and useful life in
her service, but by a generous bequest to the library, the
largest in fact which it has ever received.
The following is a list of appointments and reappointments of Professors, Assistant Professors and Instructors, and of resignations accepted. The Instructors
were appointed for a term of one year, except as otherwise indicated.
In October, 1893, Henry A. Sanders, A. B., Instructor in
Latin, in place of Hiram A. Sober, A. B., resigned.
Clarence L. Meader, A. B., Instructor in Latin.
Edwin F. Conely, Professor of Law, resigned.
Alexis C. Angell, A. B., LL. B., appointed Professor of Law.
Otto Kirchner, appointed Professor of Law.
In November, 1893, Judge Henry II. Swan, A. M., was appointed Lecturer on Admiralty Law for one year, in place of
Justice Henry B. Brown, LL. D.
In April 1893, Dr James B. Fitzgerald was appointed Director of the Gymnasium for one year.
In May, Instructor John 0. Reed, Ph. M., was appointed
Assistant Professor of Physics for three years, from October, 1894.
Dean C. Worcester, A. B., Acting Assistant Professor of
Animal Morphology, in charge of the Laboratory for one year
during he absence of Professor Reighard in Europe.
Charles A. Kofoid, Ph. D., Instructor in Vertebrate Morphology.




330


OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


Frederick C. Newcombe, Ph. D., reappointed Acting Assistant Professor of Botany, for one year, discharging the duties of
Professor Spalding, absent in Europe.
Lorenzo N. Johnson, A. M., reappointed Instructor in
Botany.
Wallace S. Elden, A. M., Instructor in French.
Arthur G. Hall, B. S., Instructor in Mathematics.
The resignation of John Dewey. Ph. D., Professor of
Philosophy, was accepted.
On June 11, the resignation of George H. Mead, A. B., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, was accepted.
Maurice P. Hunt, M. D., received the permanent appointment of Professor of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, and Eugene R.
Eggleston, M. D, that of Professor of the Theory and Practice of
Medicine in the Iomceopathic Medical College. Oscar I. Long, M.
D, was appointed Lecturer on Mental Diseases for one year in the
same College.
J. Playfair McMurrich, Ph. D., was appointed I'rofessor of
Anatomy in the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
John W. Dwyer, LL. M., was appointed Instructor in Law.
Tholms W. Hughes, LL. M., was appointed Instructor in
Law.
At the meeting of the Board, June 25-27, the following
appointments were made:
Thomas A. Bogle, LL. B., Professor of Law for one year.
Elias F. Johnson, B. S., LL. M., Instructor in Law.
Walter D. Smith, LL. B., Instructor in Law for one year.
James A. Craig, Ph. D., Professor of Semitic Languages and
Literature and Hellenistic Greek.
Alexander Ziwet, C. E., Assistant Professor of Mathematics,
three years.
George W. Patterson, Jr., A. M., S. B1, Assistant Professor of
Physics, three years.
George A. Itench, Ph. D., Assistant Professor of German,
three years.
George 0. Higley, M. S., Instructor in General Chemistry
three years.
David M. Lichty, M. S., Instructor in General Chemistry,
three years.
Max Winkler, Ph. D., Instructor in German, three years.
The following were appointed Instructors for one year:
Jonathan A. C. Hildner, A. M., German.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


331


Benjamin P. Bourland, A. M., French.
John R. Effinger, Jr., Ph. M., French.
Julius O. Schlotterbeck, Ph. C., B. S., Pharmacognosy and
Botany.
Herbert F. DeCou, A. M., Greek and Sanskrit.
Ernest H. Mensel, A. M., German.
Lawrence A. McLouth, A. B., German.
Earle W. Dow, A. B., History.
George E. Dawson, A. B., English.
Moses Gomberg, Sc. D., Organic Chemistry.
Clarence G. Wrentmore, B. S., Descriptive Geometry and
Drawing.
Karl E. Guthe, Ph. D., Physics.
Tobias Diekhoff, A. B., German.
George A. Miller, Ph. D., Mathematics.
William F. Edwards, B. S., Organic Chemistry, and Accountant in the Chemical Laboratory.
Sidney D. Townley, M. S., Astronomy.
Henry A. Sanders, A. M., Latin.
Clarence L. Meader, A. B., Latin, and Lecturer on Roman
Law in the Law Department.
William D. Johnston, A. M., History.
Simon M. Yutzy, M. D., Instructor in Osteology and Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy.
Frank W. Nagler, B. S., Instructor in Electro-Therapeutics.
William F. Breakey, M. D., Lecturer on Dermatology (permanent appointment).
Martin L. Belser, M. D., Instructor in Pathology and Autopsies.
Thomas M. Cooley, LL. D., Lecturer on Interstate Commerce
Marshall D. Ewell, LL. D., Lecturer on Medical Jurisprudence.
James L. High, LL. D., Lecturer on Injunctions and Receivers.
John B Clayberg, LL. B., Lecturer on Mining Law.
Melville M. Bigelow, Ph. D., Lecturer on Insurance.
George H. Lothrop, Ph. B., Lecturer on Patent Law.
Henry H. Swan, A. M., Lecturer on Admiralty Law.
Andrew C. McLaughlin, A. B., LL. B., Lecturer on Constitutional Law and Constitutional History.
Victor C. Vaughan, Ph. D., M. D., Lecturer on Toxicology in
its Legal Relations.




332               OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.
Henry C. Adams, Ph. D., Lecturer on the Railroad Problem.
Richard Hudson, A. M., Lecturer on Comparative Constitutional Law.
On September 19, the following appointments for one
year were made:
George Rebec, Ph. B., Instructor in Philosophy.
Frank R. Lillie, Ph. D, Instructor in Zoology.
Daniel B. Luten, B. S., Instructor in Engineering.
John Bigham, Ph. D., Instructor in Philosophy.
The Chair of Zoology was declared vacant.
Professor H. B. Hutchins. Ph. B., was appointed Professor of
Law and Dean of the Law Department, with the understanding
that he would enter upon his duties next year.
I regret to say, that John Dewey, Ph. D., who was Instructor
in Philosophy here from 1884 to 1886, and Assistant Professor
from 1886 to 1888, and who succeeded the late Professor Morris as
Professor of Philosophy in 1889, hAs resigned to take the position
of Head Professor of Philosophy in the University of Chicago.
He has added new honor to the Chair, which his illustrious pre(iecessors here have filled with so eminent success.
The number of degrees conferred was as follows:
DEGREES ON EXAMINATION.
Bachelor of  Letters......................................................  22
Bachelor of Science (in Biology)......................................  5
Bachelor of Science (in Chemistry)...................................... 10
Bachelor of Science (in Electrical Engineering)....................  6
Bachelor of Science (in Mechanical Engineering)..................15
Bachelor of Science (in Civil Engineering)............................. 11
Bachelor of  Science...............................................  19
Bachelor of  Philosophy..................................................   45
Bachelor  of  Arts...............................................................  60
Master of Letters.................................................................. 3
Mining Engineer....................................................  1
Civil Engineer.............................................................  2
M aster  of  Science.................................................................  4
M aster  of  Philosophy....................................................  9
M aster  of  Arts......................................1..........................  16
Doctor  of  Philosophy..........................................................  5
Doctor of Science.1
Doctor of SMcine (Dencedl                    and...............................................  1
Doctor of Medicine (Department of Medicine and Surgery)..... 65




OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.                                  333
Bachelor of Laws................................................................ 275
Master of Laws...................................................................... 21
Pharmaceutical Chemist.......................................................  23
Master of Pharmacy..............................................................  1
Doctor of Medicine (Homoeopathic Medical Co lege)..............                 9
Doctor of Dental Surgery......................................................  64
Doctor of Dental Science.......................................................  1
703
HONORARY DEGREES,
Master of Arts....................................................................  3
D octor  of  Law  s....................................................................  3
709
The attendance of students has been as follows:
SUMMARY OF STUDENTS.
DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS.
Holder of the Elisha Jones Classical Fellowship............              1
Resident Graduates.......................................................  77
Candidates for an        Advanced Degree, enrolled in other
D epartm   ents..........................................................  7
Graduates Studying in Absentia....................................      32
Undergraduates:
Candidates for a degree.............................................1079
Students not Candidates for a Degree........................ 231-1427
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY.
Resident Graduates......................................................  2
Fourth Year Students.............................................  64
Third Year Students.................................................   88
Second Year Students...................................................  94
First Year Students.................................................... 134-  382
DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
Resident Graduates.....................................................  20
Seniors....................................................................... 273
Juniors.............................................................. 283
Special Students...........................................................  21
Students    enrolled    in   the   Department       of Literature,
Science, and the Arts..........................................  10-  607
SCHOOL OF PHARMACY.
Resident Graduates...1.................................................  1
Second Year Students..................................................  29
First Year Students......................................................  30-   60




334


OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


HOMCEOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE.
Fourth  Year Students...................................................  10
Third  Y ear Students.....................................................  3
Second  Year  Students..................................................  8
First Year Students....................... 6-   27
COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY.
Seniors........................................................................  66
Juniors.......................................................................  52
Freshmen...................................................................  67-  185
2688
Deduct for names counted more than once.............  29
Total........................................................  2659
The number of students was less by 119 than in the
previous year. There was a decline in the Literary Department of 74, in the Law Department of 34, in the School
of Pharmacy of 22, in the Homoeopathic Medical College
of 36, in the Dental College of 4. On the other hand in
the Department of Medicine and Surgery there was a gain
of 38. We believe that the falling off in aggregate attendance was due mainly, if not wholly, to the business depression of the country.   The western institutions suffered
more from this cause than the eastern. A larger number
of the western than of the eastern college students are possessed of so small means that a general financial stringency
calls them back from study to some bread-winning pursuit.
We should not have been surprised if the same cause which
was operative last year had held down our numbers for
another year. But it is apparent that such is not to be
the case. Michigan continues to gain relatively to other
states in the percentage of our students. She sent last
year 1,400, or 52.6 per cent. of the total number, which is
two per cent. more than in the previous year.
Nineteen foreign states and provinces were represented: Ontario (28), Germany (5), China (3), England,
Japan, New Brunswick, Bulgaria, Hawaiian Islands, Que



OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


335


bec, Baden, Barbadoes, Bermuda, Costa Rica, Italy, Manitoba, Porto Rico, Scotland, South Africa and Sweden.
Of the States of our Union Illinois sending 304, Ohio
173 and Indiana 115, furnish us after Michigan by far the
largest number. However, Pennsylvania sends us 79, New
York 74, and Iowa 65. Forty-five of our states and territories are represented in our company of students. It
may be doubted whether a more cosmopolitan group of
students is found in any University.
The number of women in attendance last year was as
follows:
Department of Literature, Science and the Arts.................... 461
Department of Medicine and Surgery................................... 71
Department of Law............................................................  5
School of  Pharm acy.............................................................  2
Homceopathic Medical College..............................................  5
College  of Dental Surgery....................................................  8
552
The decline in the attendance of women as compared
with that of the previous year was ten per cent., while the
decline in total attendance was only four per cent. In the
Literary Department, where by far the largest number of
women are found, they constituted last year 37 per cent.,
this year 32 per cent. Two years ago they constituted 33
per cent. It would seem therefore that for the present the
proportion of women to men in collegiate work is not likely
to exceed the figure reached last year. The indication
seems to be that the hard times have interfered more with
the collegiate attendance of women than of men. The proportion of women to men in the total attendance is 21 per
-cent. The proportion in all the professional schools is a
little more than seven per cent., last year it was a little less
than eight per cent. The falling off has been chiefly in
the Literary Department.
Meanwhile it is noticeable how, both in the universities of this country and in many of the old and conser



336


OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


vative universities of Europe, the doors are opening to
women. Even our universities which have relegated
women to annexes or separate colleges for education, are
beginning to admit women for graduate work, and in some
cases to permit undergraduate women to attend the lectures given to the men. It needs no prophet to predict
that they will before long find it safe and wise to go yet
further in providing for the joint education of men and
women.
The building operations have been important. A
tasteful and commodious building, containing class-rooms
for the Literary Department has been completed, and appropriately named Tappan. Hall, in honor of that distinguished man, the first President, Dr. Tappan.
The increase during the last few years in the number
of students in the Literary Department, and the multipli —
cation of classes, caused by the introduction of the elective
system, rendered absolutely necessary these additional accommodations. The cost of the building and furniture is
about thirty thousand dollars.
The main building of the Gymnasium has been completed. The delay in finishing this building has been very
unwillingly assented to by the Regents.  The financial
stringency of the last two years prevented us from receiving contributions which we had good reason to expect
when the erection of the building was begun, and which
would have sufficed for its completion. But in view of
the continued business depression, which cut off all hope
of further gifts at this time, the Regents felt that it was
due to the generous subscribers to the Gymnasium fund,.
who had enabled us to rear the walls of the building, and
to the students who need the facilities for gymnastic training, to take from our treasury the sum required to prepare
the Gymnasium for use this autumn. Fortunately, a fund
which students and other friends of the University began
to collect nearly twenty years ago, was in the hands of




OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


337


Trustees, who were authorized to turn it over to the Regents for aiding in completing and equipping the Gymnasium. This fund yielded $6,095.03. The sum received
from subscribers to the fund for erecting the Gymnasium
since January, 1891, including the initial gift of $20,000
by Mr. Joshua W. Waterman, is $42,705. Adding this to
the older fund, we have $48,800.03 as the amount contributed by private generosity. The amount which the
Regents will have to expend from the University treasury
in order to complete the building cannot now be stated,
though in a few days the Gymnasium will be opened
for use.
It should be remembered that we have been unable
to begin the erection of the contemplated wing for the
use of the women. This must be built. We have about
two thousand dollars in hand for that purpose. But we
need about twenty thousand dollars. Will not some generous person provide us the means of erecting this much
needed building? The men with their out-door games
have, even without the Gymnasium, larger facilities for
healthful exercise than the women. Of course for the
present the building now completed will be given up at certain times to the women. But separate provision should
be made for the latter.
It has unhappily been found necessary to put a new
roof on the Museum and repair the walls at an expense of
$4,750. That building was so ill-constructed that it has
been a constant source of expense and solicitude to us.
It is believed, however, that it was never before in so good
a condition as it is at present.
The very serious, but necessary, task of reconstructing on a new plan our heating apparatus for all the buildings on the canipus, has been undertaken during the pastsummer. It was found that under our old system there
was great loss in the transmission and distribution of heat,
and that our outfit was inadequate to meet the additional




338


OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


drafts to be made on it by Tappan Hall and the Gymnasium. It was wisely decided by the Regents to attempt,
in making indispensable changes, to adopt a system which
should be equal to the demands to be made on it for years
to come, or which could easily be enlarged to meet all
such demands. The boilers were, therefore, all collected
in one boiler house, much larger than either of the old
boiler houses, a brick conduit, 61 feet hi h by 5~ broad,
was made. easily connecting with every building on the
campus, and fitted to carry not only steam pipes, but also
the electric wires, which it is intended to employ at an
early day in lighting our buildings. This work has been
accomplished with great expedition by Messrs. Harvey &
Sons, of Detroit. The cost according to the contract has
been $44,150. It is predicted that the saving in fuel will
be important. It is certain that this connection of all the
buildings with the central heating plant by conduits will
be most serviceable.
In the Literary Department the work of the Graduate
School has, as in the previous year, received special attention, under the direction of the Administrative Council,
which is composed of the heads of departments. The
students, including seven candidates for higher degrees,
who were enrolled in the professional schools, numbered
117. The instruction of them makes heavy drafts on our
professors, all of whom are also engaged in teaching undergraduates, but the uplifting effect of such a body of
graduate students as we have on the spirit of undergraduate work is most inspiring. These students have organized a Graduate School Club, which seeks by the aid of the
Faculty to promote the interests of the school by social
meetings, by discussions of methods of graduate work,
and by securing addresses from eminent graduates. Their
zeal and esprit de corps are most commendable and most
helpful. I cannot but repeat with emphasis the expression of the opinion that in no other way could the gift of




OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


339'


moderate sums be more useful to the University and to
the promotion of sound learning than by the endowment
of fellowships, yielding to graduate students four hundred
or five hundred dollars annually. By the aid of such fellowships Harvard, Cornell and Chicago are constantly
drawing some of our most promising graduates to their
halls.
It gives me great pleasure to acknowledge the generosity of the last graduating class of the Literary Departmerit in presenting to the University a subscription of two
thousand dollars, to be known as the "Scholarship Fund
of the Class of '94." By the provisions of the gift the
income is to be annually loaned to some student who may
be studying here as a candidate for a Bachelor's (legreeIt is to be hoped that additions may be made to this loan
fund by other contributors.
The Faculty have for the last few years been slowly
coming to the opinion that there is no good ground for
requiring more hours of work for graduation in some
courses than in others. We have heretofore asked onetwelfth more hours of work in the University for graduatioii in other courses than in the classical. The reason
given for this was that the preparation for entering upon
the classical course called for more work in school than
the preparation for the other courses. Practically the plan
probably furnished a certain special encouragement to pursue the study of Greek. It has been decided now by the
Faculty that this discrimination shall be abandoned. It is
believed that in the present circumstances no harm will
come to classical studies by this step.
The Faculty have also been brought to the conclusion
that manly of our students were taking too many hours
weekly in tie class-room, that there would be less cramming
and more faithful study, if the hours of attendance on classroom instruction were diminished, and more time was
afforded for reading and writing and reflection.  They




340


OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


have therefore fixed the maximum number of hours which
a student may take in class-room without special permission of the Faculty at sixteen. The requirements for graduation are such that a course may be completed within the
usual time, if no more than sixteen hours are taken at any
period. With the spirit of study prevalent among our students, the pressure upon the Faculty has always been not
for permission to reduce, but for permission to increase,
the number of hours of work beyond the normal number.
Tile Faculty have given prolonged consideration during
the year to the important subject now so generally under
discussion through the country of the proper requirements
for admission to the University. Probably at no previous
period have the problems of secondary education so earnestly engaged the attention of the nation as they do now.
The Report of the Committee of Ten appointed by the
American Educational Association upon the subject has
evoked a general discussion, which should be fruitful of
some good results. One Faculty, ever keenly alive to the
importance of securing the most helpful relations between
the school and the college, are diligently seeking in co-operation with the H[igh School teachers of the state to determine whlat changes, if any, should be made in the courses
of the secondary schools or in the collegiate courses, to
lend the highest efficiency to our system of education.
They have already decided to ask on and after the beginning of the next academic year preparation in French or
German or Latin for admission to the Engineering courses.
The Faculty has so arranged the work for the coming
year that there will be no regular meeting of classes after
four o'clock in the afternoon. Heretofore appointments
have been made for classes up to six o'clock. But both
teachers and students have felt the need of the late hours
of the afternoon for exercise, whether out of doors or in
the gymnasium.   We shall be under the necessity of
beginning work at eight in the morning, a quarter of an




OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


341


hour earlier than formerly, and also of using Saturday
forenoon for class work. We have reason to think that
the change will be acceptable to all.
In obedience to what seemed a public demand, we
have, during the past summer, tried the experiment of
organizing a summer school of instruction. Several colleges and universities have established such schools during
the last few years. The attendance in some of them has
been large. The persons, who resort to them are chiefly
teachers, who wish to enlarge their attainments in branches
which they are called to teach in school or college. We
formed our plans too late in the year to give as widespread
notice of them as was desirable. We have reason to be
satisfied with the attendance, as eighty-eight students were
present.  About half of them were teachers. Most of
them were from Michigan, but some came from other
states. They gave themselves with great assiduity to their
work. There seems every reason to believe that a larger
number may be expected next year, if the school is continued, as we expect it will be.
Some of our Professors have, during the past year,
continued to give courses of what are called University
Extension Lectures, and have been satisfied with the results. But the task of giving such courses is a heavy
addition to the duties of the Professor, who is charged
with the full work of a chair. I think it is not yet determined whether the demand for such lectures is to be permanent. But if it is, and if the demand is to be met by
the University, provision will ultimately have to be made
for it by the appointment of special lecturers, who will
give their time largely to the work.
The Department of Medicine and Surgery has had a
year of exceptional prosperity. Notwithstanding the increased requirements for admission and for graduation,
perhaps because of these, that Department, alone of all
the Departments of the University, had a decided gain in




342


OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


attendance. The work is organised according to the best
methods of scientific instruction. In no other Department
is more strenuous work exacted of the student, and in none
is the spirit of work among the students more earnest and
enthusiastic.
The hospital connected with this school has been
crowded to repletion with patients, and is far too small to
accommodate those who apply for treatment. The report
of the Hospital Boards show that in the University Hospital (open twelve months) 1502 patients received treatment
at an average cost to them of $7.82. The Homoeopathic
Hospital (in nine months) had 297 patients, who were
cared for at an average cost to the patients of $8.57. Thus
1799 patients were cared for in the two Hospitals at an
average cost to the patients of a little over eight dollars
each. Of these many were relieved from a condition of
disability, in which they were a charge to their friends or
to the county, and were restored to lives of productive
activity.  Had the University Hospital another ward, a
larger number of sufferers could be relieved.
The State Board of Health, holding the view now generally entertained by the best informed physicians that
consumption is a contagious disease, has recommended
to the legislature to establish a hospital here for patients,
suffering from that disease, and to place it under the
charge of our medical professors. We shall be very willing to take charge of such an institution, if the State sees
fit to establish it.
Our School for Nurses, carried on by the Medical
Department, has had the pleasure of seeing its first class,
numbering ten, complete their course of study. That
study is now attracting a large number of intelligent and
devoted women, who render a service to the sick, hardly
inferior to that of the physician. Their calling is a most
honorable one, and it is a cause of congratulation that the
medical school is now regularly preparing women for it.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


343


Those charged with the conduct of the Law School
have been of late giving much attention to the problems
of legal education, and considering the means of giving
more efficiency to our course of instruction. They have
organized a Practice Court; in which trials are conducted
with all the formalities of a regular court of justice. It
has also been decided to extend the course for graduation
to three years, beginning with the next academic year.
The Faculty has been enlarged by the addition of a Professor. Some modifications of the methods of instruction
are going on.
These steps are all in keeping with the spirit which
has been awakened in all the better Law Schools of the
country for improving the education of lawyers. Since
the old method of pursuing the study of law in offices has
so largely gone out of vogue, the Law Schools very properly feel the responsibility which is laid oni them of giving
the best possible preparation for the profession to the students who are crowding their halls. There are still differences of opinion concerning the methods of instruction,
but there seems to be a very general agreement among the
prominent members of the American bar, that a more prolonged course of study than has generally been taken,
even in law schools, has become necessary. It hardly
need be remarked that one of the greatest obstacles which
Law Schools, especially in the west, encounter in insisting
on a high standard of education, is found in the extremely
easy conditions on which admission to the bar is secured
in some states. It is within the power of the bar to remove this obstacle, and it is to be hoped that they will
co-operate with the schools in securing a larger preparation of all who are to assume the responsibile and important duties of lawyers.
The Homoeopathic Medical College has had a trying
year. Unfounded alarms of some of the profession concerning the plans of the Regents and the Faculty for the




344


OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


conduct of the college, and criticisms of Professors which
certain practitioners allow themselves to indulge in, have
obviously diverted students to other medical schools, and
especially to those which have much briefer courses and
less stringent requirements for admission. The Regents
have tried for nearly twenty years in good faith to administer this college with efficiency, and have always found one
of the chief obstacles to success in the hypercritical spirit
of certain members of the homoeopathic profession.
Whether it is possible for the Board to establish a policy
and appoint a Faculty, which the homoeopathic physicians
can unite in approving is a question which in the light of
experience is not easy to answer. Meantime the Board
must continue to use its best judgment in deciding how to
accomplish the object for which the school was founded,
the thorough education of physicians.
The work of the School of Pharmacy and that of the
Dental College have been carried on with the usual success, Nothing in their history for the year calls for special
remark.
At the Observatory Professor Hall has undertaken
with the meridian circle the determination of the positions
of the stars now being observed with reference to the questipn of the variation of latitude at the Army Engineer Obsprvatory, Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, and the Georgetown
Qoplege Observatory, D. C. Also, it is planned to make
observations here with regard to the variation of latitude,
using pole stars above and below the pole, direct and reflieted. With the 13 inch equatorial Mr. Townley has followedl a list of variable stars, and has observed a number
of comets and asteroids.
It is very much to be desired that endowment enough
may be secured for the Observatory to obtain the services
of at least one assistant who shall have no duties of instruction, but all of whose time may be given to computing and




OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


345


making astronomical observations. Such help is needed
even more than additional instrumental equipment.
For the Library the year has been            one of unprecedented good fortune. Never before has it received such
gifts.   By a request of Dr. Ford, as has before been stated,
the sum of twenty thousand dollars, and by a bequest of
Miss Jean L. Coyl, of Detroit, the sum of ten thousand
dollars have been bestowed on the General Library, and by
a bequest of Mr. Christian H. Buhl, of Detroit, the sum of
ten thousand dollars has been given to the Law Library.
Miss Coyl's bequest is made as a memorial of her deceased
brother, Col. W. H. Coyl.*         Mr. Buhl had in 1885 given
some five thousand volumes to the Law Library. It is to
be hoped that these generous examples may be imitated by
others, who appreciate the fact that the endowment of the
Library opens a fountain of perpetual blessing to the
generations of students who are to seek culture at this
University.
The following figures are drawn from the Librarian's
report:
Number of volumes in all the libraries, Sept. 30, 1894........  92,228
Number of unbound pamphlets, Sept. 30, 1894................... 16,337
Number of maps, Sept. 30, 1894..........................................  1000
*Col. Coyl died in Paris, France. The following is an extract from an
article published in Galiguani's Messenger:
" Col. W. H. Coyl. of the United States army, who has just died in Paris. has
left behind him a record to be envied among veterans. It will be remembered by
those who are tamiliar with the details of the battle of Pea Ridge, in Arkansas,
Mrrch 7, 1862, how desperate was the struggle. It was there that Choctaw,
Chickasaw and Cherokee Indian regiments were brigaded with white troops on
the side of the confederates. Col. Coyl commanded an Iowa regiment (the
famous ninth) dluring the battle, and everv field officer being either killed or
wounded. was called by Gen. Curtis to command a brigade. Early in the fight
his horse was killed under him. and 'ol. Coyl led his brigade on foot. During one
of the terrible confederate charges Col. Coyl was shot through the lungs. He
was taken from the field. anid for a long time lingered between life anid death.
His wound at last healed, and he was appointed judge advocate of the State of
Kentucky.  It was through his energy that many of the guerillas who then
infested that State were brought to justice. Tile war being ended, Col Coyl
resumed the practice of his profession-the law; but his wonrlld having greatly
impaired his hea th, he was induced to visit Europe to conlsult a physician eminent for the treatment of diseases of the lmnt s. He left New York in October on
board tie French steamer Ville de Paris. ard, the trip being.an exce dingly temnpestuous one. he was greatly fatigued on his arrival. He was at onrce taken to
the house of an Arlerl(cati gentleman residirng ini Paris who had mrule his
acquaintance on board the steamer, alid tenlderly cared for  flit it'las too late;
he lingered for two weeks, when death relieved him of his sufferings."




346


OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


Increase from Oct. 1, 1893, to Sept. 30, 1894, volumes.......... 6,447
Increase from Oct. 1, 1893, to Sept. 30, 1894, pamphlets.......  347
Increase from Oct, 1, 1893, to Sept. 30, 1894, maps.................  200
Recorded use for the twelve months in Reading Room,
volum es................................................................  120,420
Number of volumes drawn by Professors for the same
tim e........................................................................  5,400
We have received important additions to our Museum,
among them a considerable collection of minerals from the
World's Fair, a choice specimen of polished agatized wood,
presented by Regent Hebard, two large models from the
Calumet and Hecla Mining      Company, one showing a
section of the mine with shaft-house and crushers, the
other showing a section of the stamp-mill, collections of
pre-historic specimens from  New Mexico, Arizona and
Florida, and a valuable collection (exhibited at tie World's
Fair) of ores and rocks belonging to the geological cross
sections through the Ishpeming and Dead River ore
basins.
Last autumn Mr. Frederick Stearns, of Detroit, who
has more than once evinced his generosity to the University, offered to present to us on certain conditions a
very valuable collection of fishes from the waters of Japan
and of the Bonin Islands, and a lesser collection from the
Hawaiian Islands, with paintings of fishes in water colors,
mostly of the size of the original, executed by a well
known Japanese artist, S. Okubo. The Regents gladly
accepted this handsome gift on the conditions named.
Unfortunately it was found on opening the cases that the
packing of the fishes had not been done with sufficient
care to ensure their preservation. But the paintings are
in fine condition, and are of much value both from a scientific and an artistic point of view.
Ever since the completion of University Hall we have
greatly desired to have a large organ placed in our spacious
auditorium to assist in the fine musical entertainments




OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


347


which are now so often given there. At last our desires
are met. The University Musical Society, which under
the efficient and inspiring leadership of Professor Stanley,
has done so much to cultivate in this community the love
of the best music, has purchased the organ, which in
Festival Hall at the Columbian Exposition attracted much
attention, and has placed it, by consent of the Regents,
in University Hall. The organ was built by Farrand &
Votey, of Detroit, and is valued at twenty-five thousand
dollars.
We are trying an interesting, and we believe a promising experiment in the administration of our finances this
year.  Heretofore appropriations for various purposes
have been made at all the meetings of the Board. It has
been decided to make up a budget in the spring for the
fiscal year. Each Professor in charge of a department is
asked to present an estimate of the needs of his department for the year. The Finance Committee gives these
careful consideration, and then recommends to the Board
specific appropriations and also the salaries to be paid, and
the Board takes action, with the distinct understanding
that no addition is to be made to the appropriations and
salaries thus voted, except in case of unforeseen or extraordinary emergencies.
It will be remembered that the last Legislature voted
us the proceeds of a tax of a sixth of a mill, with the
provision that we must incur no debt for the erection of
buildings. We had asked for a tax of one-fifth of a mill.
That would have enabled us to provide pretty well for our
current expenses and for most of the buildings we are likely
to need soon. Though we are very grateful for the proceeds
of the one-sixth mill tax, we have found ourselves unable
to meet some very pressing wants.  We very much need
an electric light plant. But we have had to forego that
for the present. Another hospital ward, an enlargement
of the Library building, an addition to the engineering




348


OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


workshops, an addition to the chemical laboratory, an
addition to the anatomical laboratory, and the woman's
wing to the gymnasium are urgently needed. Probably
an enlargement of the physical laboratory must soon be
made, either by adding to the present building or still
better by erecting a hygienic laboratory and surrendering
to the physical department the rooms now occupied by the
bacteriological and hygienic department. Of course the
long wished for Art Building is always desired. We gratefully acknowledge the gift to the University by Hon. Levi
L. Barbour of a lot in Detroit valued at twenty-five thousand dollars as a donation towards the erection of such a
building, which shall cost not less than a hundred thousand dollars. It will readily be seen that for some years
to come the drafts upon our treasury for building purposes
must be heavy.
We have long been hoping that private beneficence
would supplement the gifts of the State to the University.
Now that it seems well settled that the State is ready to
make permanent provision for the substantial support of
the Institution, we are justified in expecting that the graduates and other friends of the University will testify their
interest in it by appropriate donations. Never before in
any one year have we received so many gifts as have come
to us during the past twelve months. Though these are
small compared with the hundreds of thousand of dollars
which are annually poured into the treasuries of some
of our American universities, they afford us cheering
evidence that our friends are remembering us, and they
awaken in us the hope that others will imitate them.
Where can persons of generous purpose, whether of
limited or of ample means, better bestow their gifts than
upon a University like this, where those gifts will confer
blessings upon unnumbered generations of earnest and
aspiring students?
JAMES B. ANGELL.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


349


On motion of Regent Cook, it was voted that the report be accepted and printed in the Minutes, and that
1,000 copies be bound for distribution.
Librarian Davis submitted and read the following report of the work done in the Library during the last year,
and the condition of the same at the present time.
LIBRARIAN'S REPORT 1893-'94.
To the Honorable the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEN: I have the honor to submit the following as my report on the libraries of the University for the
years 1893-'94.
There were in all the libraries September 30, 1894,
92,228 volumes, 16,337 unbound pamphlets, and 1,000 maps.
Of these there were in the General Library 74,355
volumes, 15,242 unbound pamphlets and 1,000 maps; in
the Law Library, 11,465 volumes; in the Medical Library,
5,774 volumes and 1,095 unbound pamphlets, and in the
Library of the Dental College, 634 volumes.
During the year 400 periodicals were regularly received as follows: in the General Library, 280; in the
Medical Library, 100; in the Law Library, 7; and in the
Library of the Dental College, 13.
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
The additions to the General Library during the year
were 5,574 volumes, 314 unbound pamphlets and 200 mapsOf these, 4,080 volumes, and 209 unbound pamphlets and
97 maps were bought; 953 volumes, 105 unbound pamphlets and 103 maps were presented, and 541 volumes were
the results of binding periodicals.
The total amount of bills certified to by me for purchases for this library was $11,278.66.  Of this sum,
$8,855.55 were for books, pamphlets, and maps; $1,062.93
were for subscriptions to periodicals, and $1,360.18 for




350


OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


binding and mending.* The sum of $250, appropriated by
the Board, for the department of Animal Morphology in
June, 1893, has been exceeded to the extent of $108.60.
Of the appropriation made for illustrative material for the
department of Greek, in 1891, $20.09 remain unexpended.
As reported last year, orders are out covering this balance,
but up to this time our booksellers have been unable to
secure copies of the works ordered.
GIFTS.-For the first time in its history this library
has been the recipient of money to be applied towards a
permanent endowment fund. By the will of the late Dr.
Corydon L. Ford, so long the Professor of Anatomy in the
University, the General Library receives for investment
the sum of $20,000. The single condition attached to the
bequest is, that the books bought with the income of this
fund shall bear a label reading-"Bought with the income of the Ford-Messer Fund."
Closely following this bequest was another of $10,000
by Miss Jean L. Coyl, of Detroit. A condition of this bequest is, that the books purchased with the income of it
shall be known as the Colonel Coyl Collection, in honor
of Col. William Avery Coyl, a deceased brother of the
testatrix.
These bequests have given great gratification to those
interested in the library. It is hoped that they may be
followed by others of a like nature, until an adequate endowment for this important department of the University
is secured.
I am not permitted at present to make public the
name of a gentlemen from whom were received two rare
and valuable works, viz:
* I will call attention to my statement that bills of the character described, and reaching the total named " were certified to
by me" during the year. Among them there might have been
payments for books that were counted among the accessions of
the previous year. This is unavoidable, and results-such as an
average price -based upon the money paid and books received,
could only be approximately correct.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


351


1. "Description de l'Egypte... deuxieme edition.
Paris: 1820 a 1830, 24 torn. en 26 vol. in 8, et 11 vol. infol.
de planches."
This is the famous work for which the materials were
gathered in Napoleon's expedition to Egypt.
2. "Geographical and Historical Dictionary of America and
the West Indies. By Don Antonio de Alcei o. Translated with additions and compilations by G. A. Thompson. 5 vols. 4to, with the two rare volumes of maps.
Lond. 1812-1815."
I trust that in the near future we may be afforded
the gratification of publishing the name of our generous
friend.
Mr. E. C. Hegeler, of La Salle, Illionis, to whose generosity in the past is due the presence of many volumes
on our shelves, is to be thanked again —this time for
money to buy a set of Zeitschrift f. Voelkerpsychologie
und Sprachwissenschaft, 19 vols."
The sumptuous volume descriptive of the centennial
celebration of the first inauguration of Washington as
President of the United States, was received from the
Publication Committee.
Mr. Horace Turner, of Detroit, presented 34 bound,
and 142 unbound volumes of Littell's Living Age. This
constitutes the greater part of the set.
From Dr. Robert Irelan was received a copy of his
valuable work entitled "The Republic, or a History of the
United States in the Administrations," in 18 volumes.
Mrs. George S. Morris gave a number of books and
pamphlets that had belonged to Professor Morris.
At the desire of Professor Russell, and with his cooperation, an attempt was made to collect from Geologists
of this country, Canada, and Great Britain, copies of their
contributions to periodicals, which had also been printed
separately. Seventy-eight persons responded to our letters of solicitation, and the number of "separates" ob



352


OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


tained is 701.* When properly classified and bound thesewill form a collection of unusual interest.
To Professor E. L. Walter we are indebted for a complete set of the Teubner Greek texts numbering 96 volumes.
Of the Stevens' Facsimiles, the costly and valuable
work contributed by Clarence M. Burton, Esq., of Detroit,
volumes 18, 19, and 20 were received.
Two volumes of the "Documents inedits suir l'histoire
de France," additional to the 65 vdlumes reported a year
ago, were received from the French government.
A quantity of matter relating to the various States of
the Union and foreign countries represented at the World's
Fair, at Chicago, and distributed by their agents, came
into possession of the library, some by mail, but more left
with the person in charge of the University Exhibit at the
Fair Grounds. A convenient and safe arrangement of all
this matter will cost labor and money, but the value of it
when thus arranged will be considerable.
The Church of Latter Day Saints, through Mr. Benjamin Cluff, Jr., a graduate student at the University,
presented a number of books relating to Utah and the
Church.
The documents of the national government, and of
the state government have been received as usual.
Gifts were also received from Dr. Samuel A. Green,
Dr. L. G. Doane, President Angell, Professors Demmon,
Hinsdale, Dewey, Hempl, Mr. B. P. Bourland, and others.
USE OF THE LIBRARY.-The recorded use of the Library was as follows:
* These pamphlets will not be counted with the accessions to
the library until they have been classified and bound. It should
also be said of our pamphlets in general that many more, both of
a general nature and medical, have been received during the year
than have been reported. Our practice now is to enter at once
upon the records only the exceptionally valuable ones, reserving
the rest until enough have been accumulated on a subject to form.
a volume for binding.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


353.


From October 1, 1893, to September 30, 1894............... 120,420 vols.
Drawn by Professors during the twelve months......... 5,400 vols.
Total..................................................... 125,820  vols.
This is less than the recorded use of last year by 10,115
volumes, and that of last year was 3,518 volumes less than
that of the previous year. It must not, however, be inferred
from this decrease that there is a falling off in the use of
the library. There is, on the contrary, a steady increase
in its use. A few years ago, with a view of putting the
student as quickly as possible in possession of the books
required by him for his work, the experiment was tried of
placing temporarily some of these books outside of the
delivery desk, where they were directly accessible to the
students. As no objection to the plan appeared, and as
some advantages were obvious, the number of books thus
placed has been increased each year. Lists of all of these
books are made, and with these lists they are compared
frequently. No books have been lost thus far through this
exposure.
In the use of these volumes the apparent falling off in
use is much more than made good.
The average number of readers daily in the General
Reading Room was 150. The occasions were numerous in
the winter and spring when readers reported that they
could not obtain seats.
The number of admissions of students to the Book
Room was 65-all that could be admitted under the rule.
During the two semesters 305 students were admitted
to the Seminary Rooms: 126 to the East Room for the
study of History, Political Economy, Philosophy and Pedagogy; and to the West Room 179 for the study of English,.
French and German literature, and Greek and Latin literature and Art.
CONDITION OF THE LIBRARY.-Some mutilation of
books has been discovered-largely art books from which




:354


OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


plates have been removed. No clue to the perpetrators
of these outrages has been found thus far. The following
books have been missed so long that we regard them
as permanently lost, viz.: Carlyle's Critical and Miscellaneous Essays, 4 volumes; Carlyle's Choice of Books; Carlyle's Past and Present; Mendeleef's History of Chemistry, 2 volumes; Parkman's Jesuits in North America.
A few books of common reference have been worn out
and retired. Care has been taken that books showing any
signs of breaking up, should be at once mended, or rebound.
Many, also, that were in a shabby condition, without being
absolutely unfit to use, were treated in the same way, with
the result that the appearance of the shelves is very much
improved. The operation of dusting the books and washing the shelves was performed during the vacation under
the direction of the janitor.
THE WORK OF THE PAST YEAR.-In October, 1893, an
appropriation of $300 was made to provide assistance for
the cataloguer. With this sum the services of Miss Julia
M. Angell, formerly a cataloguer in the library of the
University of Chicago, and now a student in this University, were secured for a portion of the time.  With
her assistance the cataloguing of the numerous accesions was kept well up until the serious illness of Mr.
Jordan, near the end of the college year. The work
necessarily fell behind then, on which account not a few
volumes that would otherwise have been numbered with
the accessions of 1893-'94, will now appear with those of
1894-'96.
You will perhaps recall that early in the year you
ordered the construction of a new case for the catalogue of
the Medical Library. When this was completed the cards
which up to this time had been arranged with those of the
General Library, were selected out and arranged in the
new drawers. The change is found a great convenience




OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


355


by medical students, and at the same time it relieves the
drawers of the catalogue of the General Library.
Our duplicate books and pamphlets, and numbers of
periodicals, and the miscellaneous matter that is not at
present, usable, but which one does not wish to destroymatter which has hitherto been stored in the basementwas, in part, removed to one of the small attics on the floor
of the Art Gallery. At the same time a catalogue of it
was made. The chief reason of the removal was the danger to which such matter is exposed in the basement from
the frequent escape of steam from the pipes in winter, and
from the dampness following heavy rains in the summer.
Of the $300 appropriated by you in June for the verification and transcription on smaller cards of certain cardsof the old subject catalogue, and to perfect, mechanically
and otherwise, the public catalogue, $200 were devoted to
the former work, and $100.to the latter. So much of the
transcription was accomplished that we shall be able to
finish it in the regular course of work; and the public
catalogue has been rendered much more convenient and
satisfactory.
THE LIBRARY FORCE.-The assistants, Mr. Hopkins,.
Mr. Jordan and Mr. Finney, continue in the performance of the duties discharged by them last year. Of the
old desk attendants only Mr. Herbert Voorhees remains.
The new men are Mr. J. E. Lautner, Mr. J. T. Thomas
and Mr. G. D. Jennings. In the East Seminary Room,.
Mr. L. G. Whitehead has been succeeded, as attendant, by
Mr. D. F. Wilcox; and in the West Room Mr. H. A. Williams has been succeeded by Mr. C. H. Covell. Miss
Angell will continue to assist in cataloguing.
THE WORK OF THE PRESENT YEAR.-Our experience
forbids us to expect to accomplish more than a small portion of what needs to be done. The catalogue should be
completed to date, and the improvements in its arrange



356


OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


ment begun in the summer should be carried to completion. This would include the cataloguing of the Shakespeare collection to which reference was made in the
report of last year. The Laboratory libraries that have
been authorized are yet in an unsettled state, and no little
time will be required to assign the additional books, and
-complete the lists of all. At present there are six laboratory libraries auxiliary to the General Library, and three
auxiliary to the Medical Library. There are in all of them
about 5,000 volumes. It is desirable, also, that the remaining portion of the duplicate matter in the basement should
be catalogued and removed to the attic of which mention
has been made. It should be said that sales, or exchanges,
-of this matter are made whenever opportunities to do so
offer. Of the work thus outlined we shall accomplish all
that we possibly can.
SOME MATTERS OF POLICY.-One unavoidable result
of the increase of the library, and of its increased
use, is a larger bill for binding, rebinding and mending. For 1893-4 the total cost of this work for the
General Library was $949.30.  The cost for the year
just passed exceeded that sum $410.88, being $1,360.18.
This is a large expenditure of money for one item only
in the preparation and preservation of the books. Can
it be lessened?  We cannot get on with having less of the
work done; and we should not have it done in cheaper
material, or in a lessworkmanlike manner. It has been
suggested that lower prices than we are now paying might
be obtained by throwing the work open to the competition
of binders. This method of awarding the work has not
proved satisfactory in the past. The specimens of material
and work submitted are usually better than can be afforded
for the price named; and it is almost certain that when a
contract has been secured only work of an inferior quality
will be supplied. I cannot see any relief in that direction.
Could the work be done in a satisfactory manner, at a less




OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


357


expense, if the University owned and operated the bindery?
Some pains have been taken to answer this question, and
the answer is in the negative. We do not at present have
work enough to justify the outlay that would be necessary.
A point may be reached, however, in expenditure, which
will justify it. By those who have investigated the subject
the smallest sum that would justify the outlay is put at
$2,500.00. In my view it will be best to continue our
present arrangement, unless circumstances should make a
change necessary.
I hardly need to say that the lighting of the library
building is very unsatisfactory. There is insufficient light
in the Reading Room, especially. I fear much that the
eyes of those who work there are injured.  Also, the
fixtures are of a poor quality, and there is a leakage of
gas that keeps the air in a vitiated state. I content myself
with this bare mention of facts, believing it is the intention
of the Board to remedy these evils, and to add to the
building as soon as it is possible to do so.
THE OTHER LIBRARIES.
The additions to the Medical Library were 497 volumes
and 23 unbound pamphlets. Of these 355 volumes and 5
pamphlets were bought, 18 volumes and 18 pamphlets were
presented, and 124 volumes were the results of binding
periodicals.
It was the wish of the late Dr. C. L. Ford that his
medical books should be added to the Medical Library of
the University. The collection, consisting of 300 volumes
and a quantity of pamphlets and miscellaneous matter, has
been received at the Library. It does not, however, enter
into the statistics of the libraries that have been given, as
it has not been possible yet to enter the volumes upon the
accessions book.
The total of bills certified to by me for this Library
was $1,256.63. Of this sum $872.78 were for books and




358


OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.


pamphlets, $286.25 were for subscriptions to periodicals,.
and $97.60 were for binding.
I have already referred to the new cases for the catalogue of the medical books, and the gratifying results of
the change that has been made.
The additions to the Law Library were 354 volumes.
This library, as well as the General Library, has been
generously remembered. Mr. Buhl's bequest of $10,000,
coupled with his gift of 5000 volumes in 1885, insures him
grateful remembrance as long as the University shall exist.
Fifteen volumes were added to the Library of the
Dental College.
There is one other matter that I desire to bring to the
Board-with a recommendation:
The Library is now open from 8 A. M. to 6 p. M., and
from 7 to 9:30 P. M. This is 121 hours daily. I recommend that it be kept open from 6 to 7 P. M., also, and that
the hour of closing be extended to 10 o'clock.
I would also recommend that if, in the opinion of the
Library Committee of the Faculty, it is desirable to keep
the Library open more than the usual number of hours in
the summer vacation, on account of the summer school,
they shall be authorized by you to extend the hours, and
if necessary, charge the students in this school a small fee
to cover the additional expense.
Further, I desire that in addition to the other rules of
the library you would enact that when the members of the
library force leave the building at the hours of closing the
library, all other persons be required to leave, also.
Very respectfully submitted,
Oct. 23, 1894.    RAYMOND C. DAVIS, LIBRARIAN.
On motion of Regent Dean, it was voted that the report
be accepted and printed in the minutes, and that one
hut dred extra copies be furnished the Librarian for distribution.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.                  359
Treasurer Soule presented and read his annual report
of the condition of the finances of the University which
was approved, and ordered printed with the President's
report and also in the Proceedings of the Board.
TREA.SURER'S REPORT.
To the Finance Committee, Board of Regents, University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN: Herewith I submit my annual report for the year ending June 30th. 1894.      Respectfully,
H. SOULE, Treasurer.
RECEIPTS.
Miscellaneous Sources. Special Accounts...  10 14
From State Treasurer, Acct. Special Appropriations  6,000 00
"'..      '   "' Current Expenses..302,183 91
"  Miscellaneous Sources.......   137,61096  S 445,805 01
DIS BURSEMENTS.
Balance Overdrawn July 1st, 1893.......  13,284 56
From Special Funds, Legislative Appropriations,
and Earnings........      19,463 59
From General Fund Account........ 368,325 52
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 189......  44,731 34 445,805 01)
GENERAL FUND.
RECEIPTS TO THE GENERAL ]4UND.
From State Treasurer, Account 1-20 Mill Tax..  28,250 00..... "  1-6 Mill Tax...  235,416 65.   *...      ".  University Interest  38,517 26 302,183 91
' Interest on Deposits..  $3,530 88
" University Record....   106 87
University Hospital, Balance for
1892 3, as per last report...  266 13
' University Hospital for 1893-4..  3,000 00
General Library (Duplicate Books Sold) 4 00
Dental Supplies.....  5983 84
Anatomical Supplies..    324 48
' Sales of General Catalogue..  13 00
" Miscellaneous Sources.    1,854 18        15.083 38
"  Key Deposits............  171 00
'  Medical Department.........   13,280 00
Literary   "....          41,365 00
"  Law       ".....              26015 00
Dental     "..           6,920 00
" Homoeopathic"...925 00
'  Pharmacy........   2,335 00
" Chemical Laboratory..               8,615 00
' Zoological...              474 00
"  Mechanical........   1,627 00
i  Hygienic........   2,332 00
"  Botanical  '.....           368 00




360


OCTOBER MEETING. 1894.


From Pathological Laboratory...
" Physical.
General Chemistry Laboratory.
Electro-therapeutical  "      
"  Histological..
"Physiological......
" Practical Anatomy..
Medical (Denonstration)
"  Photography............
'  iploma Fees...
Balance Overdrawn June 30,1894


950 00
500 00
784 58
848 00
920 00
75 00
2,825 00
4,140 00
8 00
7,050 00  122,527 58.     5,477 59
S445,272 46


Students' Fees, Total.. 
4.     " Refunded..*'    Net..


$122,527 58
5,371 69
$117,155 89


DISBUIRSEMENTS FROM THE GENERAL FUND.


General Pay Roll of Officers, Proessors,
and Employees....     $225,843 00
University Hospital Pay Roll...     4,105 50
Homoeopathic "....                  1,117 50
1onlceopathic College    (Deficiency)  2,787 50
Dental College...     11,150 00
Vouchers Paid, Students' Fees Refunded
Fuel and Lights..
General Library (Books).
General Library (Expenses).
''.M useum....... CCivil Engineering
"."    Chemical Laboratory..
*'   '  Histological.....' Botanical 
Physical.
' Physiological"
Mechanical...     Zoological    ".
Pathological '.. "    Hygienic 
".' Anatomical..
~t    '  "Electro-therapeutical Laboratory
General Chemistry       "
'."   Materia Medica          "
Astronomical Observatory.. "      Dental Supplies..
r"    '   Postage......" Calendar...
"   Contingent..... '     Construction (Hospitals)..
- ' Dental College (Running Expenses).. '.     School Inspection......... Advertising Medical Dept.


4245,003 50
5,371 69
11,431 33
11,232 87
391 69
726 71
221 16
6,625 91
276 57
525 73
275 45
1,162 47
1,341 68
1,904 00
422 20
3.069 96
3.225 18
400 30
1,560 46
466 56
1,334 44
3,316 05
1,378 34
2,065 32
8,680 40
4,260 00
917 02
553 11
580 79




OCTOBER MEETING, 1894.                       361
Vouchers Paid, Advertising Law Dept..          391 95.(.'  Advertising Pharmacy Dept..       193 35
Miscellaneous Printing..       2,168 77.'  University Hospital, Running Expenses.........     8,003  1.'  Publishing University Record..  503 95
"   Law Library...            2,190 13
"   "   Medical Library....    1,130 02
" Administration Buildig..        21 84.'. Repairs.....      5,098 33
Homoeopathic College Expenses)      394 26... Gymnasium Building....               710 97
' Psychology........              271 29
ll Iomoeopathic Hospital (Running
Expenses)........    1,5() 61."   "   Medical Demonstration  Courses
(Running Expenses...     108 19
'    ". Recitation Building.       26,917 77 s368,325 52
Amount Overdrawn July 1, 1893.........22,624 71
Amount Transferred to Special Building Account... 54,289 03
Amount Transferred to General Library Account..   15 82
Amount Transferred to Repairs Account......    17 38
S445,272 46
SPECIAL FUND ACCOUNTS.
HOM(EOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st. 1893...      $ 2,224 09
From State Treasurer....                 6,000 00
Balance (verdrawn June 30, 1894.....      1,467 9(i,692 03
Disbursements.
Paid Salaries of Professors and Employees...  8,100 00
Paid Vouchers for Expenses...          1,592 05  9,692 05
GENERAL LIBRARY.
Receipts.
From Transfer from General Fulnd to Balance..  15 82
From Sale of Duplicate Books........             5 45     21 27
Disbursements.
Balance Overdrawn July 1st, 1893......          15 82
Paid Vouchers........                          5 45     21 27
CONTINGENT.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st, 1893......     3,776 02  3,776 02
Di7smrsements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses...          3,776 02  3,776 02
REPAIRS.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st, 1893..         162 87
Transfer from General Fund Account...17 38             180 25
Disbursements.


Paid Vouchers for Expenses... 


180 25       180 25




362              OCTOBE R MEETING, 1894.
I'H YS~lC'AL LABORATOI Y.
Receipts.
Balancet ill Treasury lJuly  1st, 1893.....   1,410 31  1,41() 3o
Dishursesents.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses......!74 5!)
Balance int Treasury June 0, 1894.......      435 72  1,410 31
lDNTAL SUmRG;  Y.
Receipts.
Balantcet il T'reasury Juily 1st, 1893.1 I93            1 9;
Disburseme n ts
Paid Vouchers for Expeses.......      1 93     1 9;r
EQUIPMENT OF ENGINEERINOG LABOIiATO()RY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st. 1893..    302 60   302 eo,
Disburse men ts.
Paid Vouclhers for Expenses....             152 35
Balance in T'reasury,lune 30, 1894.......  150 25  302
t IVII, ENGINEElIN(;G.
ReceiptK.
Balance inl Treazsury July  1st. 1893....  ~9 40   99 4it
Disblursemealts.
Paid V(ucJhelrs for Expenses...     29 30
Balance inl Treasury.) une 30, 1894.          70 10    99 40
ItOTANICAL AND' ZO()O1,((;ICAI. LABO()ATO)IIES.
Receipts.
Balanu'ce in Tretasury July 1st, 1i93...   191 25
Rece'ive (I for rlmaterial sold....         4 69    198 94
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchelli for Expenses......       198 94   198 94
INSURANCE.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st, 1893..       1,184 50  1,184 50
Disbursements.
Paid Vouclilrs f)r EXl)enses..........  1,184 50  1,184 50
BUILDING FUND.
Receipts.
Frome (enieral Fund (Tuansfer).......       54,289 03  54,289 03
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses (Gymnasium)...  3,268 21
Balance in Treasury June: 30, 1894...     51,020 82  54,289 03
SPECIAL FUNDS.
Baltnces in Treasury June 30, 1894.
Physical Laboratory...                    435 72
Civil Engineering...70 10
Equipment of Engineering laboratory..        150 25
Building Fund......               51,020 82  51,676 89
Less Homoo)pathic College, Overdrawn...       1,467 96
Total........                          $50,208 93




OCTOBER MEETINGI, 1894.                      363
AFFAIRS OF THE HOSPITALS.
The Superintendent of the Hospitals reports to the Auditing Board
the following as all the business done by him during the year. This
embraces the running expenses only and does not include the mainte'
nance or permanent expenses which are met from the General Fund of
the University.
UNIVEIISITY HOSPITAL.
This Hospital was again opened during the vacation iionths, July,
August, and September, 1893, with the following results:
Receipts from Patients........             s3,26 02
Disbursements for Extra Salaries. 'Maintenance, and
Refunding to Patients.......... $4,498 9:;
Deficiency Paid from General Fund of the University      1,238 91
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL.
Receipts.
For the College Year, October to June, inclusive, Receipts from Patients.....20,774 95
Dislbursements.
Amounts Refunded to Patients by Joseph Clark,
Superintendent............  6,372 45
Expenses Paid by Joseph Clark, Superintendent. 9,926 44
Cash to Treasurer by Joseph Clark. Superintendent. 3,000 00
Due to Treasurer from Joseph Clark, Superintendent  1,476 06  20,774 95
HOM(EOPATHIC HOSPITAL.
Receipts.
From Collections and Earnings...                     (.  688 14
Disbursements.
Amounts Refunded to Patients by Joseph Clark,
Superintendent......                    1,133 32
Expenses Paid by Joseph Clark...    3,810 06  $4,943 38
Deficiency Paid from General Fund of the University      1,255 24
GIFTS.
Under this head are included gifts which the Regents have received
from time to time from benefactors for general purposes, or for stated
special purposes. The accounts are as follows:
PHILO PARSONS FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st. 1893...       78 95
From Interest.........                         3 21   $82 16
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury June 30,1894...            82 16   82 16
MARY JANE PORTER FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury July 1st, 1893...       628 47
From   Interest...............    27 51   655 98
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury June 30, 1894....         655 )8   655 98



