
SEPTEMBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY O'T MICHIGAN, )
ANN ARBOR, SEPTEMBER IO, 1920
The Board met in the Regents' Room at Io:05 A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Bbal, Regent
Sawyer, Regent Murfin. Absent, Regent Hubbard, Regent
Clements, Regent Hanchett, Regent Gore, Superintendent
Johnson.
On motion of Regent Leland, the minutes of the meeting of July 23 were approved as submitted to the members
in proof.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the committees appointed
to recommend a building program to be placed before the
Legislature (see pages 985 and 986) and to initiate a plan
for the development of University grounds and buildings,
were consolidated. The personnel of the resultant committee follows: President, Regent Clements, Regent Hanchett,
Regent Hubbard.
Regent Beal asked that Regent Clements be added to the
committee authorized to discuss with the Ann Arbor City
authorities the rates for water to be paid by the University
(see page 986).
The President and Regents informally discussed certain
items of Board procedure and method (see page 987, preceding volume). The President filed with the members present a memorandum embodying briefly the ideas presented by
him in the discussion. No action was taken pending a Board
meeting at which there should be a larger attendance.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board voted that when
adjournment should be taken it should be to October I, and
that at the meeting of October I the program of requests




2          SEPTEMBER MEETING, I.920
to be presented to the Legislature of I92I should be the
special order of business.
A communication from Professor E. C. Case stated that
Professor W. H. Sherzer of the Michigan State Normal
College, Ypsilanti, had presented to the University a collection of fossils, of about 300 specimens collected by the
late Professor E. A. Strong. On motion of Regent Murfin,
the collection was accepted and the President was requested
to express the thanks of the Regents to Professor Sherzer
and to the family of Professor Strong.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Dr. Rockwell M. Kempton was substituted as second Instructor in Pediatrics for
the months of July, August, and September in place of Dr.
Lynn Hoag, who found himself unable to take up the duties
of the position until October I. Dr. Kempton's salary is
to be at the same rate as that originally provided for Dr.
Hoag.
A communication relative to the conditions which in
their opinion should govern athletics at the University of
Michigan was received from Mr. David McMorran and
other Michigan alumni of Port Huron. On motion of
Regent Murfin, this petition was received and placed on file.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Philip B. Hadley was
appointed Assistant Professor of Bacteriology with salary
of $3,400 as provided in the budget.
A request was received from Mr. Robert R. Eckert for
permission to enroll beginning with the session of I920 -I92I as a resident of Michigan. In view of the fact that
Mr. Eckert had originally come to the University from
another state and that his registration since coming here had
been continuous, the Regents denied his petition.
On motion of Regent Murfin, Willis Shippam, Captain
of the Coast Artillery Corps of the United States Army,
was appointed Assistant Professor of Military Science and
Tactics.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following appointments made by the Secretary in accordance with terms of
authority in the resolution adopting the budget (see page
946) were approved and confirmed by the Board.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, I920


3


COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Chemistry
C. H. Chen, Lecture Assistant for I920 summer session.
$I50 for Summer Session period.
L. G. Devine, Second Assistant in Dispensing Room   of
Chemical Laboratory from July I, $IOo per month.
A. W. Van Benschoten, Third Dispensing Assistant, full
time, from August I, $Ioo per month.
Philosophy
William M. Trapp, Assistant, $600 per year.
Catherine D. Wenley, Assistant, $300 per year.
Zoology
Marie L. Braun, Under-graduate Assistant, $200 per year.
Lois Cochran, Under-graduate Assistant, twenty-four hours
per week, first semester only, $150.
Stella Cooper, Under-graduate Assistant, $200 per year.
Charles W. Creaser, Graduate Assistant in Zoology, $60o
per year.
Helen J. Fisher, Under-graduate Assistant, $200 per year.
Grace Griffin, Graduate Assistant, $400 per year.
Melville W. Hatch, Graduate Assistant, $600 per year.
C. P. Hickman, Graduate Assistant, $600 per year.
Leigh Hoadley, Under-graduate Assistant, $30c per year.
Lavinia MacBride, Graduate Assistant, $90o per year.
Leonore McQuinn, Graduate Assistant, $900 per year.
John Van Oosten, Graduate Assistant, $600 per year.
COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
A dministration 
Ollie E. Earl, Stenographer, salary increased from $900 to
$I,ooo per year from July I.
Marie Perry, Stenographer in the office of the Dean, salary
increased from $I,080 to $I,200 per year.
Imogene G. Simpson, Stenographer to the Secretary, resigned August 14, I920.
Civil Enginteering
Sylvia Fiegel, Stenographer in the Highway Department,
$65 per month to date from July Io, I920.
Hugo A. Rieger, Summer Assistant, for the months July,
August, and September, $140 per month.
IMEDICAL SCHOOL
Bacteriology
A. P. Ohlmacher, Summer Assistant, vice H. R. Roehm resigned, month of August, $83.33.




4            SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1920
Internal Medicine
Lavona Kopke, Stenographer, from July 19, $I,Ioo per year,
twelve-months' basis.
Pediatrics
G. H. Bourassa, Stenographer, vice Myrta Mulholland, resigned, from July 12, $I,200 per year; twelve-months'
basis.
HOMOEOPATHIC MEDICAL SCHOOL
Gladdis Richards, Stenographer, part time, $30 per month,
beginning July I.
COLLEGE O0 DENTAL SURGERY
Robert R. Dieterle, Technical Assistant in Pathology, $700
for ten months, to date from October I.
LIBRARY
L. Mae Carpenter, In Charge of the Charging Desk in the
Main Library, vice Florence Peters, promoted, $I,200
per year, twelve-months' basis, from October I.
Della L. Egly, Assistant in the Graduate Reading Room
No. I, $I,Ioo per year, twelve-months' basis, from October I.
Randall French, Assistant at the Corridor Desk, vice
Blanche Blynn, resigned, $I,Ioo per year, twelve-months'
basis, from October I.
Agnes C. Fries, Assistant at the Charging Desk in the
Main Library, vice L. Mae Carpenter, promoted, $I,Ioo
per year, twelve-months' basis, from October I.
Frank L. Hager, Order Clerk, vice Emily Hendricks, promoted, for the months of July, August, and September,
$I,200 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Emily Hendricks; Assistant Searcher in the Order Department, $I,400 per year, twelve-months' basis, from July I.
Mary A. Jackman, Assistant in Charge of Continuations,
$I,400 per year, twelve-months' basis, from July I.
Florence Peters, Temporary Librarian in Charge of the
Science Library, vice Jean Sharpe, transferred, $I,500
per year, twelve-months' basis, from October I.
Jean M. Sharpe, Assistant in Charge of Graduate Reading
Room No. 2, vice Esther Braley, resigned, $I,700 per
year, twelve-months' basis, from October I.
Barbara Snure, Cataloging Assistant in the Cataloging Department, vice Rebecca Wilson, promoted, $I,ooo per
year, twelve-months' basis, from October I.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1920                        5
Edwin L. Theurer, Assistant at the Corridor Desk, vice
Robert M. True, resigned, to date from July I, $900
per year, twelve-months' basis.
Elizabeth Widney, Cataloguer, vice Olivia Demmon, resigned, $I,Ioo per year, twelve-months' basis, from September i.
Lewis R. Williams, Assistant at the Corri'dor Desk, vice
Randall French, promoted, $9oo per year, twelvemonths' basis, from October I.
Rebecca Wilson, Cataloger, vice Irene J. Crabb, resigned,
$I,I00 per year, twelve-months' basis, from September I.
Margaret Vinton, Assistant Classifier, vice Mary A. Jackman, promoted, $1,400 per year, twelve-months' basis,
from October I.
MUSEUM
Leigh Hoadley, Assistant to keep the Museum open on Sundays and Holidays, $I per day from July I.
On motion of Regent Beal, the following changes in and
appointments to the staff of the Summer Session were made
in accordance with the recommendation of Dean Kraus and
with the understanding that the budget be not increased by.such action.
COLLEGE OE LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Rhetoric                                 HOURS SALARY
Assistant Professor Roy W. Cowden... 32     $I66.67
(additional)
Zoology
Assistant John Van Oosten...........         25.00
Geology
Assistant John Fairbairn.............        35.00
LIBRARY METHODS
Special Lecturer Frederick L. Bliss........      20.00
On motion of Regent Beal and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Dean of the Summer Session certificates in Embalming and Sanitary Science were voted to
-.the following:Harold C. Mott                 Howard A. Loss
Nelson E. Chevalier            J. L. Calvin
Harrie D. Nelson               Casper Ralph Doll
C. J. Masters                  James S. Whaley
Alanson C. Hobart




6


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1920


On motion of Regent Murfin, the salary of Garth W.
Boericke as Assistant Professor in the Homceopathic Medical School was increased to $3000 per year for the University year I920-I92I.
On motion of Regent Murfin, Lynn J. Boyd was
appointed Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine in the
Homceopathic Medical School at the salary of $3000 for
the University year I920-I921.
Sums already in the budget provide for the salary of
Dr. Boericke and for Dr. Boyd.
On motion of Regent Beal, the leave of absence of
Thomas Diamond, Associate Professor of Industrial Education, was continued from September I, I920, to September
I, I92I, without salary during this period.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board voted that beginning with October I, I920, a fee of $4 per semester hour
should be charged for all Industrial Education courses given
off the campus. Such fees are to be collected by the University Treasurer and are not to increase the budget allowance for Industrial Education.
On motion of Regent Beal, Frank R. Kepler was
appointed Instructor in Industrial Education, to give a
course of two hours a week in Detroit with compensation
of $250 for the first semester of the University year I920 -192I.
The request of Director E. D. Campbell for additions
to the salary roll of the Chemical Laboratory was referred
to the President with power.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, John Alexander was
appointed Instructor in Experimental Surgery with salary
of $I503 on the Surgery budget of the Medical School and
$I500 additional on the roll of the University Hospital.
This appointment dates from October I, I920, and is upon
the twelve-months' basis.
On motion of Regent Leland, the following resignations
were accepted:



SEPTEMBER MEETING, I920


7


Adolph F. Wendler, Instructor in Chemical Engineering.
Franz P. Zimmerli, Instructor in Chemical Engineering.
Orlan W. Boston, Assistant Professor of Engineering Mechanics.
Henry B. Osborn, Instructor in Modern Languages, Colleges of Engineering and Architecture.
On motion of Regent Leland, John Collins Geniesse was
appointed Instructor in Chemical Engineering, vice Adolph
F. Wendler, with salary of $1500 for the University year
1920-I92 1.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board referred to the
President with power the request of Dean Cooley for the
appointment of Carl L. Dahlstrom as Instructor in English,
Colleges of Engineering and Architecture.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board referred to the
President with power the question of office space for the
Department of Military Science and Tactics.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board referred to the
President with power the offer of the National Twist Drill
and Tool Company, of two fellowships of $503 each for
the University year I920-I92I, with the request that if the
conditions under which the fellowships were offered made
them acceptable tothe University the President would transmit to the donors the thanks of the Board for this co-operation with the work of the University. The President was
also empowered to name the holder of one or both of these
fellowships should they be accepted and should it seem necessary to determine the holder before the next meeting of
the Board.
On motion of Regent Leland, Miss Elizabeth Campbell
was appointed Stenographer and Clerk in the office of the
Secretary of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture,
vice Miss Imogene Simpson, resigned, with compensation
of $I200 per year, to date from September I, I920. From
that date also the salary of Miss Lois Fischer and Miss
Helen Miller, Clerks in the office of the Secretary of the
Colleges of Engineering and Architecture, were fixed at
$00ooo and $900, respectively.
A communication from Dr. C. G. Parnall stated the circumstances of the illness of William Ostermiller, for ten




8


SEPTEMBER MEETING, I920


years an employee of the Hospital. In accordance with
Dr. Parnall's recommendation, on motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted that Mr. Ostermiller be allowed his
hospital care and three-quarters of his regular pay of $8o
per month for a period of three months from September I,
if necessary.
On motion of Regent Beal, F. G. Gustavson was
appointed Instructor in Botany at a salary of $I700 for the
University year I920-I92I.
On motion of Regent Beal, John H. Muyskens, was
appointed Instructor in French in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, at $18oo per year, vice Harry C.
Barnett, who did not accept the appointment, and Newton
S. Bement was appointed Instructor in Spanish in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts at the salary of
$800o as provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Beal, Eugene E. Rovillain was
appointed Instructor in French in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, for the University year I920-192I,
with compensation of $2400 on condition that the budget
of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts was not
increased by the appointment. It was understood that a
sufficient sum would be transferred from the budget of the
Department of English to the budget.of the Department of
French, if necessary to cover this appointment.
Regent Leland presented a letter from the Bankers' Land
and Investment Corporation requesting the return of a first
payment made by this corporation upon a land contract for
the purchase of lots I to. 46, inclusive, of block 7, of Fyfe,
Barbour, and Warren Subdivision, Detroit (see page 840),
upon which contract they had made no further payment.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Secretary was directed to
notify the Bankers' Land and Investment Corporation that
this initial payment had been forfeited by their failure to
carry out their contract.
At this point the Board adjourned for lunch.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, I920


9


AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at 1:55 P. M. with the same
attendance as at the morning session.
On motion of Regent Beal, Regent Gore was appointed
formally to induct the President into office at the inaugural
ceremonies October 14.
On motion of Regent Beal, the President was authorized
to make temporary appointment of an official to be known
as Director of the Housing Bureau, with compensation equal
to one month's extra pay (if the appointee is regularly upon
the academic year basis). This official is to solve as far
as possible the problems of housing incident to the large
number of students expected for I920-I92I, and to devote his
chief attention to new matriculants at the University.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board directed that
whatever taxes might have been assessed against the property deeded by Levi L. Barbour to the University (see
pages 779-780) at the date of the conveyance of said property, should be paid by the University and the deed should
as promptly as possible thereafter be placed on record.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board voted that when
there should be trust funds for investment in amount equal
to the Alice Freeman Palmer Fellowship in History such
funds should be separately invested in such safe, highinterest-producing securities as the Board might direct, in
order that the principal of the fund might be depleted to
the least possible degree by the payment of the annuity (see
pages 522-524 and 548).
The President reported orally on the plans for the Educational Conference to be held at the time of his inauguration.
The following reports of the Executive Committee were
presented and upon motion of Regent Murfin, all were
approved and confirmed by the Board.




1o            SEPTEMBER MEETING, I920
To the Regents of the University.
GENTLEMEN:At the meeting of the Executive Committee of the
Board of Regents held August 12, the following actions
were taken. Your Committee to whom was referred the
scale of charges made for hospital treatment, with power
(see page 995), recommends the following scale of charges,
the same to take effect September I.
Preliminary  registration  fee.................$.25
Out-patient examination fee...............  I.oo
Residents of Michigan, in wards, per day..  2.75
Residents of Michigan, in private rooms,
per day...............................  3.50
Non-residents, in wards, per day..........  3.25
Non-residents, in private rooms, per day....  4.50
Contagious Ward, per day.................  3.50
($2 per day extra for nursing)
For part time care of special nurse.........  2.00
For entire time of a pupil nurse, per day..  4.00
For use of operating room.........$2.50 to  5.00
For nitrous oxide gas, from........$7.50 to Io.00
Maternity patients................. present scale
For ether anesthesia......................  500
For local anesthetic..................50c  to  2.00
X-Ray Minimum Charge
NO.    EXAMINATION
II Hand................................. $3.00
12  Carpus................................  3.00
13 Forearm..............................  3.00
I4 Humerus............................     3.00oo
I5 Elbow......................           3.00
I6 Shoulder..............................  3.00
2I Foot A l.....................     3.00
22 Ankle.............................      3.oo0
23 Leg.......................    3.00
24 Knee........................       3.00
25  H ip...................................  3.00
26 Femur.....................       3.00
27.......................................
28  Pelvis.................................  5.oo
29 Both Hips............................   5.00
3I  Cervical  Spine........................  3.0o




SEPTEMBER MEEETING, 1920                        I 
32 Dorsal Spine.......................      5.00
33  Lumbo-sacral Spine...................   5.oo
4I  Lateral  of  Head......................  5.00
42  Sella  and  Base........................  3.00
43  Accessory  Sinuses....................  3.00
44  Mastoids..............................  3.00
45 Foreign Body Localization............    2.00
46  Jaw...................................  3.00
47  Teeth-A   charge of 50c plus 25c for
each film
5I G-U Tract for Stone.................     5.00
52  Opaque Injection G-U................  5.oo
53  Com bined.............................  7.50
6I Thorax for Viscera....................   5.oo
62  Thorax  for  Parietes...................  5.00
63 Thorax, Orthodiagram................   I.00
71  Bismuth by Mouth....................    7.50
72  Bismuth by Rectum...................  5.00
73  Fluoroscopy..........................oo
74  Bismuth by Oesophagus..............     3.00
75  Pneumoperitoneum...................  5.00
76  Injection Sinus Tract.................  5.00
80 Treatment............................     I.oo
We further recommend that the Secretary of the University, after consultation with  Dr. Parnall and Dean
Vaughan, submit a recommendation from those officers to
this Committee, to provide a proper adjustment between the
Hospital and Medical School budgets.
We also recommend that the three senior interns at
the University Hospital be given $50 per month, plus maintenance for their services as per report adopted at the meeting of the Regents January 8, 1920, page 809 Regents' Proceedings.
Your Committee asks that the foregoing actions be confirmed by the full Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
M. L. BURTON
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALTIER H. SAWYER
August 12, 1920




I 2


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1920


To the Regents of the University.
GEINTLEMEN:Your Executive committee at a meeting held August 9,
1920, appointed Robert Carl Cole as Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing at a salary of $800o per year for
the University year 1920-I92I, upon the recommendation of
Dean Mortimer E. Cooley, which is hereto attached. This
appointment involves no addition to the budget.
Your Committee asks that its action be confirmed by
the full Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
M. L. BURTON
JUNIUS E. BSAL
WALTER H. SAWYER
August 9, I920
To the Regents of the University.
GENTLEMEN:The Executive Committee of the Regents of the University held a meeting on August 12, I920, at which the following actions were taken and the same are now submitted
to the full Board for its approval and confirmation.
On the recommendation of Dean Cooley, the following
appointments were made for the university year 1920 -1921:H. A. Simmons, Instructor in Mathematics at a salary
of $I8oo per year, vice Raymond W. Barnard, resigned.
Lathrop C. Pope, Instructor in Civil Engineering at a
salary of $2000 per year.
Harold J. McFarlan, (C.E. 1917), Instructor in Surveying at a salary of $1700 per year, vice Glenn W. Holcombe,
resigned.
Thomas J. Mitchell, Assistant Professor of Surveying
at a salary of $2500.
Jose M. Albaladejo, Instructor in Spanish at a salary
of $2400 per year.
The above appointments do not increase the budgets of
the Departments involved.
Dean Cooley also stated that he had received a letter
from Professor Ziwet reporting the resignation of Edward
C. Blankenstein, Instructor in Mathematics at a salary




SEPTEMBER MEETING, I920


I3


of $I650, and recommending that John Perry Ballantine
be appointed as his successor at a salary of $i8oo. This
recommendation involved an increase of $I5o in the
budget of the Department of Mathematics.     However,
through the representation. of Dean Cooley that it would
be difficult to secure any one for less than this amount and
that, on account of changes in other departments, whereby
savings had already been made, the total budget of the College of Engineering would not be increased by granting his
request, your Committee authorized the appointment of Mr.
Ballantine as Instructor in Mathematics for the University
year 1920-1921 at a salary of $I800.
It was necessary that the above actions should be taken
before the next meeting of the Regents, on September Io,
it being important to act promptly in order to secure the
men above named.
Letters relating to these appointments are attached to
this report.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
M. L. BURTON
JUNIUS E. B^AL
WALTER H. SAWYER
August 16, I920
To the Regents of the University.
GENTYLMEN:Upon the recommendation of Professor M. P. Tilley,
who has been authorized by Dean Effinger to act during the
summer as the representative of Professor Louis A. Strauss,
Chairman of the Department of English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Executive Committee of the
Regents of the University, at a meeting held August 23,
I92o, appointed John Robert Moore Instructor in English for the coming University year at a salary fo $2,000.
The appointment of an additional instructor in English was
authorized by the Board at its meeting held July 23, 1920,
provided that the budget be not increased thereby. It is
understood that this appointment does not increase the budget of the Department.
At the same meeting Dean Cooley reported that John
Perry Ballentine, appointed by your Committee at its
meeting held August I6 as Instructor in Mathematics to




I4


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1920


take the place of Edward C. Blankenstein, resigned, had
declined to accept the appointment. Upon the recommendation of Dean Cooley, James Noble Landis was appointed to
take Mr. Ballentine's place at a salary of $1,500 for the
University year 1920-I92I. In making this appointment
Mr. Landis is given permission to carry some part of the
twenty-five hours that he still needs to graduate. This action involves a saving of $150 since the amount allowed in
the budget for this instructorship was $1,650.
Letters from Professor Tilley and Dean Cooley are
attached to this report upon which the above appointments
were based.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
M. L. BURTON
JUNIUS E. BEAL
WALTrER H. SAWYER
August 23, I920
To the Regents of the University.
GENTLEMEN:At a meeting of your Executive Committee held August 27, I920, George A. Kuyper was appointed Instructor in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
at a salary of $2,000 for the University year I920-I92I, upon
the recommendation of Professor Morris P. Tilley, which
is hereto attached. This salary is provided in the budget.
The Committee asks that its action be approved by the
full Board.
Respectfully submitted,
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE:
M. L. BURTON
JUNIUS E. BEAI,
WALTER H. SAWYER
August 30, 1920
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board accepted the resignation of Captain John P. Lucas as Professor of Military
Science and Tactics. Captain Lucas has been transferred
by the War Department to Camp Grant.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board accepted the resignationof Parish S. Lovejoy as Assistant Professor of Forestry.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1920


I5


On motion of Regent Beal, the Board accepted the resignation of Harry J. Baker as Teaching Assistant in Education.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Charles H. Stocking was
appointed Assistant Professor of Pharmacy for the University year I920-192I with compensation of $2500.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Dr. William P. Edmunds
was appointed Second Assistant Physician in the University
Health Service with salary at the rate of $3000 per year,
twelve-months' basis, to date from September I, I920.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to send
the Acting Superintendent of Nurses of the Homceopathic
Hospital to the meeting of the American Hospital Association in Montreal.
On motion of Regent Murfin, on condition that the
arrangement had the approval of the Faculty of the Homoeopathic Medical School, Dr. Scott C. Runnels was appointed
Clinical Director of the I-omceopathic Hospital, vice Dean
W. B. Hinsdale as Medical Director, and Dr. D. W. Myers
as Acting Surgical Director.
On motion of Regent Murfin, Professor George L. Jackson was appointed Director of Mental Testing in the Social
Service Department of the Homoeopathic Hospital without
additional compensation.
On motion of Regent Murfin, permission was granted
Superintendent D. W. Springer of the Homceopathic Hospital to attend the American Hospital Association meeting
in Montreal on October 4 to 8 with traveling expenses not
in excess of $75 chargeable to the current expense budget
of the Hospital.
The President reported the receipt of a check for $750
for the du Pont Fellowship in Chemistry for I920-I921.
On motion of Regent Murfin, this check was accepted with
thanks.
The President presented the following communication
received through Dean Cooley:



16.


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1920


To the Regents of the
University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
GENTLEMEN:The undersigned herewith proposes to give and transfer to you as Trustees the sum of Twenty Thousand Dollars
($20,000) in U. S. Liberty Bonds, to hold in trust for the
following purposes and none other:First. To keep said sum intact, separate and distinct
as a trust fund and to invest and reinvest the same to the
best interest of the fund and to collect all income therefrom.
Second. To use the income therefrom in aiding such
students in the College of Engineering of the University of
Michigan as in the opinion of the Regents are worthy of
and in need of such assistance to complete their studies in
said University, said aid to be in the form of a loan, the
loan when paid to be returned to the income fund to perpetuate the same.
Third. If in the future the income fund should amount
to enough to warrant it, the Regents are hereby authorized
in their discretion to extend the use of the income fund,
not to exceed the amount of its annual increase, to the support of scholarships and professorships or for prizes for
excellence of scholarship.
Upon your expressed acceptance of the bonds under the
conditions named, I will forward the same according to your
directions.
Sincerely yours,
GEo. H. BENZENBIRG, '67
Milwaukee, Wis., September 4, 1920
On motion of Regent Leland, the gift was accepted by
the Regents with sincere thanks, in accordance with its terms
and conditions, and with the provision that it should be
designated the George H. Benzenberg Trust Fund.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board approved the
recommendation of Professor W. D. Henderson, Director
of the University Extension Service, that the compensation
of. Instructors giving Extension Courses for Credit should
be at the rate of $300 for a two-hour course, with traveling
expenses, instead of as previously $250 per course with
traveling expenses.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1920


I7


The President filed the report of Dr. W. E. Forsythe,
Director of the University Health Service, for the year
I919-I920.    On  motion   of Regent Murfin, the       Board
rescinded its action (see pages 729-730) making it mandatory upon the Director of the Health Service to send each
Regent a monthly report of the activities of the Service.
The President presented the following communication
and recommended compliance with the wishes of Mr. Barbour, as therein expressed:To the Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEN:In the resolutions of your Board accepting my gift to
the University of Michigan of funds and property, the income
ofwhich under the terms of the gift is to be used for scholarships for girls from oriental countries, it was in substance
provided, among other things, that said scholarships should
be administered by a committee consisting of the President
of the University, the Dean of the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, the Dean of Women, and the Dean
of the Medical School. I have frequently consulted with
President Emeritus Harry B. Hutchins in regard to these
scholarships, and he, better perhaps than any other person,
understands the feelings that prompted me in their establishment and the results that I hope will be realized. It
would, therefore, gratify me if, by proper resolution, his
name could be added to the committee, and if it could be
provided in the resolution that during his period of service,
which should be at the pleasure of the Board, he act as chairman of the committee.
Respectfully submitted,
August 18, 1920                LEvi L. BARBOUR
On motion of Regent Murfin, President Emeritus
Hutchins was accordingly formally added to the Committee,
and made Chairman thereof.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board accepted the
resignation of William L. Stanton as Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing in the Colleges of Engineering
and Architecture.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1920


On motion of Regent Murfin, James B. Newman was
appointed Assistant Professor of Architecture for the year
I920-I92I with compensation of $2800, which is within provision already made in the budget.
To care for the work of Miss Elizabeth B. Steere, Assistant Law Librarian, on leave (see page 1003), Blanche Harroun, Second Assistant Librarian, was made First Assistant
Librarian for the year beginning September I, I920, with
salary of $18oo, and Miss Helen B. Bates was made Second
Assistant Librarian for the same period, but beginning September Io, with salary of $I200 per annum.
A communication was received from   Superintendent
Parnall with respect to problems presented by increased
room rents charged Hospital employes whose lodgings the
University pays for in lieu of quarters in the Hospital Building. On motion of Regent Murfin, these questions were
referred to the Executive Committee with power to act on
each individual case as it may come up.
On motion of Regent Beal, and in accordance with the
recommendation of Dean Effinger, Miss Mildred P. Sherman was appointed to the Henry Strong Fellowship for
I920-I92I with stipend of $200, the appointment being conditional upon the approval of the trustees of the Henry
Strong Fund.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the diploma in Public
Health Nursing was voted to Mary Cornelia Trafford in
accordance with the recommendation of the committee in
charge of the courses in Public Health Nursing.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board declined to
grant the request of Jessie M. Werner for permission to
take part-time work at a pro rata fee.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board declined to
grant to the minor daughter of Mr. J. E. Kirkpatrick permission to register as a Michigan student, this denial being
based upon the ground that Mr. Kirkpatrick would not
have lived in Michigan six months at the time of his daughter's proposed registration.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1920


I9


On motion of Regent Murfin, the Secretary was authorized and directed to secure data with respect to the possibility of housing students in barracks buildings to be secured
from the Army or Navy or from other sources having materials which could be readily and quickly worked up into
living quarters.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the compensation of
Assistant Professor O. M. Cope was fixed at a total of
$3400, $900 of which should come from the Dental College
budget and $2500 of which should come from the Department of Physiology in the Medical School.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board changed the
terms of appointment of Professor James B. Edmonson to
give a special course in Principles of Education, course in
Public Health Nursing, (see page I004) from an appointment without compensation to an appointment with compensation of $300 for the course.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board approved the
action of the Secretary in securing boiler insurance upon
the boilers at the Washington Street power plant, the hospital plant, and in the Engineering building, and added $700
to the budget to cover the premium.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote.
On motion, the Board adjourned to 9:30 A. M., October
I, 1920.
SHIRLIEY W. SMITH, Secretary




OCTOBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY Or MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, OCTOBER I, I920. )
The Board met in the Regents' Room at 9:40 A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Beal, Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Gore, Regent Murfin, and Regent
Hanchett. Absent, Regent Leland, and Regent Sawyer, who
later took their seats, and Superintendent Johnson.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board formally approved all actions taken by the Regents at the meeting of
September Io.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That the presence of the President and of
four voting memblers of the Board shall hereafter constitute
a quorulm of this Board.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the meeting of September Io were approved as submitted to the
members in proof with certain specified changes.
Regent Sawyer took his seat.
The President reported the views of Honorable Charles
R. Foote, State Budget Director, to the effect that any proposed increase in the mill tax of the University should be
presented directly to the Legislature and not through the
Budget Director's office and that all specific requests for
buildings or other requests for appropriations outside the
mill tax should be presented to the Legislature through the
medium of the State Budget.
The President and Regent Clements reported for the
Committee to recommend a Building Program to be placed
before the Legislature and to initiate a plan for the development of University grounds and buildings (see page I).
Regent Leland took his seat.
The President and Regents discussed at length the matters covered by the reports.
The Board adjourned for lunch.




22


OCTOBER lIMEET ING, 1920


AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at I:30 P. M., all members being
present with the exception of Superintendent Johnson.
The discussion continued with reference to the legislative and building program, upon which matter unanimous
agreement was at length reached with the expectation that
it would be made a matter of record at a later meeting after
the conclusions should be reduced to a formal statement for
the State Budget Director.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board voted that the
Clements' Library building be located upon the east and west
axis of the Mall (see page 986, preceding volume).
The Secretary reported for the President and himself,
as the Committee to which had been referred with power the
matter of a contract for University printing, that after full
consideration it was the purpose of the Committee to entei
into a contract with the Ann Arbor Press. On motion of
Regent Hanchett, the proposed action received the formal
approval of the Board (see page 985, preceding volume).
Regent Beal reported that thus far no reduction in water
rates to be charged the University had been agreed to by
the City authorities (see'page I). The matter was dropped
from the program with the understanding that the Secretary
would report any further development.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board approved the
following new order of business in accordance with the
memorandum filed by the President at the meeting of September 10, with certain modifications (see page I):I. Approval of the minutes of the Board
II. Approval of minutes of committees of the Board
III. Consideration of recommendations of committees
IV. Resignations
V. Appointments
VI. Promotions
VII. Salary adjustments
VIII. Leaves of absence
IX. Special items




OCTOBER MEETING, I920


23


Members of the Board are to receive one week in
advance of the meeting copies of the entire docket.
Copies of communications to the Board concerning all
special items of importance are to be sent to each Regent
as well as copies of the minutes of the Board and of committees.
No communications regarding items IV to VIII, inclusive, are to be sent except those involving additions to the
budget, or involving appointments of professors, associate
professors, and assistant professors, and except in cases of
unusual importance or *where significant policies are involved.
Appointments of instructors and assistants are to be
in the hands of the President and the proper dean. and are
to be reported to the Board by the President.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board voted that hereafter the Standing Committees of the Regents should be
the following:I. EXrCUTIVr COMMITTEE
II. FINANCE OR BUtDGT COMMITrTEE
III. SALARIES COMMITTEE
IV. BUILDINAGS AND GROUNDS COMMITTEE
V. LIBRARY COMMITTEE
VI. COMMITTEE ON EDUCATIONAL POLICIES
VII. COMMITTEE t OR THE PROMOTION OF RESEARCH
VIII. COMMITTEE, ON STUDENT WELFARE
The President is to serve as Chairman of Committees
I and VI arid to be e.x officio a member of all committees.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the President and two
Regents to be appointed by him were requested to determine
the size and the personnel of the newly constituted committees.
The President appointed RegelYt Beal and Regent Hanchett to act with him as members of this Committee upon
Committees. Later this Committee filed the following report of its appointments:STANDING     COMMITTEES OF TIlE REGENTS
I. EXECUTIVE
I. The President, Chairman
2. Regent Junius E. Beal
3. Regent Walter H. Sawyer




24


OCTOBER MEETING, 1920


II. FINANCE
I. Regent Frank B. Leland, Chairman
2. Regent Walter H. Sawyer
3. Regent Lucius L. Hubbard
III. SALAR^ES
I. Regent Victor M. Gore, Chairman
2. Regent James 0. M1urfin
3. Regent Frank B. Leland
IV. BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS
I. Regent William L. Clements, Chairman
2. Regent Benjamin S. Hanchett
3. Regent Lucius L. H1ubbard
V. LIBRARY
I. Regent ~William L,. Clements, Chairinan
2. Regent Lucius L. Hubbard
3. Regent Victor M. Gore
VI. EDUCATIONA, POLICIES. ' The President, Chairman
2. Regent Frank B. Leland
3. Regent Victor M. Gore
VII. PROMOTION 0or RESEARCH
I. Regent Benjamin S. Hanchett, Chairman
2. Regent William I,. Clements
3. Regent Walter H. Sawyer
VIII. STUIDENT WVIIARI
I. Regent James 0. MAurfin, Chairman
2. Regent Benjamin S. Hanchett
3. Regent Junius F. Beal
By action of the Board as above recorded, the President
is Chairman of Committees I and VI, and ex officio a member of all Committees.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the President was authorized to establish a daily bulletin involving the use of the
columns of The Michigan Daily, and to enter into such an
arrangement with the Daily as may in his discretion seem
best to provide the required number of copies and for their
circulation. It was estimated that the expense involved
would not exceed $3,500.
Regents Clements reported that the University laundry
rates to be charged the several departments of the Univer



OCTOBER MAEETING, Ip.0o


25


sity and the Michigan Union, if the latter required the
laundry's services, had now been apparently satisfactorily
adjusted.
The Secretary was directed to come to some agreement
if possible with Mr. Homer Heath, business officer of the
Michigan Union, with respect to the charges made by the
laundry   for work done for the Union during the year
19I9-I920.
The President presented the following report:The Board of Regents:At your meeting July 23, 1920, after considering the
communication of Dean Cooley to Regent Hanchett, dated
July I5, I920, in which was set forth the proposals resulting
from the joint meeting of the Regents' Special Committee
and the Executive Committee of the Committee of One
Hundred (Advisory Board) July 7, 1920, you requested the
President with the assistance of Dean Cooley and Professor
A. E. White to confer with the so-called Committee of One
Hundred and work out and submit to the Regents a comprehensive plan to carry out the said proposals (see page
996, preceding volume).
The Executive Committee of the Committee of One
Hundred met at the Detroit Club September I5, 1920, and
advised the President of their views in a communication
dated September i6, 1920, hereto attached.
After carefully reviewing the several actions of the
Board of Regents with respect to the proposed cooperation
of the University and the manufacturing industries, and the
proposals of the Committee of One Hundred through its
Executive Committee, particularly the proposals of said
Executive Committee under date of September I6, I920, I
beg leave to submit the following recomlmendations:I. That the Board of Regents confirm its action taken
January 8, I920, wherein the Regents expressed themselves
in favor of the general plan of the proposed cooperation
and that the Board now adopt the report of the Committee
presented January 8, I920, which provides for the establishment and organization of a department to be known as the
Department of Engineering Research. I recommend that
this report be amended in one particular, making the Dean,
rather than the Director, Chairman of the Administrative
Committee.




26


OCTOBER MEETING, 1920


II. That Professor Albert E. White be relieved from
his duties in the Department of Chemical Engineering and
appointed as Director of the Department of Engineering
Research at a salary of $50oc per year.
III. That the Committee of One Hundred appointed
by this Board at its meeting of February 20, I920, (see
pages 842, 848, preceding volume) be hereby appointed as
the Advisory Board of the Department of Engineering
Research.
IV. That the appropriation of University funds be limited to the $Io,ooo mentioned in Section 3 of the report of
January 8, I920, (see page 821, preceding volume), it being
understood that such further sums as may be needed in
excess of the $I0,oo0 appropriated from  University funds
will be. provided by those served.
October I, I92o             M. L. BURTON, President
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That the Board unanimously adopt the report
submitted by the President and that the recommendations
be made effective immediately.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the following appointments were made in the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture:
George Alexander Morley, Instructor in Mlechanical
Engineering for the University year I920-I921 with salary
of $2200, vice Karl W. Legg, resigned.
Clarence Frank Kessler, Instructor in Mechanical Engineering for the University year I920-I92I with salary of
$I8oo as provided in the budget.
George G. Brown, Jr., Instructor in Chemical Engineering for the University year I920-I92I with salary of
$2300 as provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the following appointments were made: —
Virgil A. Ross, M.D., Assistant Physician in the University Health Service with salary at the rate of $300 per
month from  October 15, 1920, to June 30, 192I, vice 1)r.
Clyde Reynolds, resigned, to establish a health service at the
Michigan Agricultural College. Dr. Reynolds' resignation
dates from September I.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1920


27


Charles C. Wolcott, B.S., M.D., Homceopathic Assistant
Physician in the University Health Service from October I,
1920, to June 30, 1921, with salary of $250 per month. Dr.
Wolcott takes the place of Dr. Thomas T. Ritter, resigned,
as of September I on account of ill health.
Mrs. Winifred Perry, Nurse in the University Health
Service, beginning October I, with salary at the rate of
$1200 per year, twelve-months' basis, vice Mrs. Bertha
Andrews, resigned, as of September 30.
Margaret MIcIntyre, Junior Nurse in the University
Health Service from October I, 1920, to June 30, 1921, with
salary of $800 for the period. Miss McIntyre succeeds Miiss
Katherine Sterling, resigned.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Hospital Service
item in the University Health Service budget was increased
from $Sooo to $12,500.
On motion of Regent Beal, the following appointments
were made to positions provided in the budget:Harold Robert Snow, M.S.E., Instructor in Organic
Chemistry for the University year 1920-1921 with salary of
$1700.
Frederick William  Sullivan, Jr., M.S., Instructor in
Organic Chemistry for the University year 1920-1921 with
salary of $I5oo.
Byron Avery Soule, MI.S (Chem.), Instructor in Analytical Chemistry for the University year 1920-1921 with
salary of $15oo.
'On motion of Regent AMurfin, the Board accepted and
approved the following report made by the Secretary in
accordance with authority given at the adoption of the
budget for I920-192I:Administrationl, Literoture, Science, and the Arts
Frances Buntin, Clerk to the Registrar, vice Bertha
Herbst, resigned, from September I6, $900 per year, twelvemonths' basis.
Gladys Hooper, Clerk in the Registrar's Office, vice
MIartha Pommerening, resigned, from  September I7, $qoo
per year, twelve-months' basis.
Lillian A. Hughes, Secretary to    Registrar, salary
increased to $1200 from September I.




28


OCTOBEMR MIEETING, IQ920


Education
Edna Gordon, Research Assistant in Experimental Education for the University year, $Iooo per year.
Harvey Lowry, Teachino Assistant for the University
year, $600.
Clair K. Searles, Teaching Assistant for the LTniversity
year, $500.
Genevieve A. Stough, Stenographer, resigned September 21.
Law School
Helen Gillespie. Stenographer, $I200 per year, twelvemonths' basis, transferred from Highway Laboratory.
Health Service
Ida Baym, Stenographer, vice Rhoda Hand, resigned,
$I200 per year, twelve-months' basis, from September I.
Lena B. Henkel, Filing Clerk at $65 per month from
October 4.
Mrs. Harry F. Minkley, Stenographer at $Ioo per mol-th
for nine months, from October 4.
H ousilzg Bureau
Andrew  Green, Clerk to Colonel Bursley, $ioo per
month from September 17.
On motion of Regent Beal, W. Freeman Galpin, Ph.D.,
was appointed Instructor in History for the University year
1920-I921 with a salary of $I8OO, as provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Dental Surgery
the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery was conferred upon
Floyd Byron Crill.
On motion of Regent Beal, the title of Robert B. Howell
was changed from Instructor in Comparative Anatomy and
Crown and Bridge Work to Instructor in Comparative
Anatomy.
On motion of Regent Gore, the salary provided in the
budget for a desk assistant in the Law Library was increased
from $480 to $550, and the salary provided for the page in
the Law Library was increased from $300 to $350, both for
the University year I920-I92I. These increases do not involve an addition to the budget of the Law School.




OCTOBER IMEETING, I9-2


29


On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board referred to the
President, Regent Sawyer, and Regent Clements with power
requests from Dean Vaughan for $3000 for additional salaries in Bacteriology, for $6600 for additional apparatus
and its installation in the Bacteriological Laboratory, and
for four additional assistants in Anatomy at $iooo each.
No action was taken at this time upon a request for certain readjustments of space at the University Hospital.
A request was received from    Charles J. Andrews for
certain changes in the lease under which the Regents use his
house at oo000 E. Washington Street as a nurses home. Regent Murfin moved that the request be denied. This motion
was lost by a vote of two to six. Regent Clements then
moved that the question be referred to Regent Beal and the
Secretary with power.   This motion was carried, Regent
Beal not voting, Regent Miurfin and Regent Leland voting
no, and all others voting aye.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board voted that when
adjournment was taken it should be to Wednesday, November 3.
The Board, on motion of Regent Leland, approved and
confirmed the following actions of the Executive Committee
as reported in due form:Mrs. Barbara H. Bartlett, appointed Director of Public Health Nursing with salary of $4000 per annum to date
from October 3, 1920, vice Ella Phillips Crandall, who did
not accept (see page Ioo3, preceding volume).
John J. Leighly, appointed Teaching Assistant in Geology and Geography with compensation of $700 per year for
the University year 1920-1921. This appointment is an
addition to the budget.
Russell Watson, appointed Assistant Professor of Forestry for the University year I920-I92I with salary of $2500,
vice Parish S. Lovejoy, resigned.
Permission was given to make the following use of an
item of $3500 originally appearing in the budget of the
Botanical Garden for the construction of a gardener's
house:$1500 for the purpose of finishing the upper rooms of
the Laboratory at the Botanical Garden as a temporary residence for the head gardener;




30


OCTOBER MEETING, 1920


$I000 for the equipment of rooms In8 and 119 in the
Natural Science Building as laboratories;
$Iooo to provide labor as might be required at the
Garden.
Delegates were authorized to attend the meeting of the
American Hospital Association in Montreal as follows:Two from the Homceopathic Hospital (see page I5)
and three from the University Hospital, with expenses not
to exceed $75 each clargeable to the budgets of the respective hospitals.
On motion of Regent Beal, Regent Hanchett was appointed to initial the University vouchers for the months
of October, November, and December.
The Secretary filed with each member of the Board a
copy of the Financial Report of the Secretary and the Treasurer for the year ended June 30, I920. On motion of Regent
Sawyer and subject to the approval of Regent Leland as
Chairman of the Finance Committee this report was accepted
and adopted as the Regents' report to the Governor, and the
printing of the required number of copies was authorized.
Regent Murfin, Regent Leland, and Regent Gore were
excused.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, Regent Murfin was appointed to succeed himself as Regent member of the Board
of Governors of the University of Michigan Union for the
year beginning August I, I920.
The Secretary filed a letter from the Detroit Trust Company under date of September 27 transmitting certificate No.
A-I3479 for 435 shares of the capital stock of Parke, Davis
& Co., registered in the name of the University of Michigan,
market value $49,916.25, and also the Trust Company's
check for $83.75, the total sum of $50,000 representing the
amount of the specific bequest to the University -under the
terms of the twenty-fourth paragraph of the will of the late
Charles L. Freer (see page 879, preceding volume). The
text of the paragraph above referred to is as follows:
I give and bequeath to the Regents of the University
of Michigan capital stock of said Parke, Davis & Co. of the
market value at the time of my death of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000). Said stock, or the proceeds derived from




OCTOBER MEETING, 1920


3I


the sale thereof, shall be held in perpetuity by said Regents,
and the cash dividends, or income therefrom, shall be used
to add to the knowledge and appreciation of oriental art.
Said income shall be used primarily in aid of research to
be conducted by experts regarding the art objects embraced
in the collection of oriental art transferred or bequeathed
by me to the Smithsonian Institution; for the publication
of the results of such research, and for the preparation of
text of descriptive scientific catalogues of said collections
whenever the necessary information can be prepared.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the bequest was accepted
in accordance with its terms and the President and Secretary
were authorized to sign the proper receipts. The President
was asked to communicate to the representatives of the late
Mr. Freer the gratitude of the University authorities for
this bequest.
The Secretary reported for the President the appointment of Carl E. Dahlstrom as Instructor in English in the
Colleges of Engineering and Architecture (see page 7), with
salary of $I500 for the University year 1920-I92I, as provided in the budget.
The President further reported an increase of $I400 in
the salary roll of the Chemical Laboratory under authority
given at the meeting of September Io (see page 6).
On motion of Regent Beal, the following resolution was
adopted:Resolved, That Marion LeRoy Burton, President of the
University of Michigan, be and he hereby is authorized to
execute for and in the name of said University a bond or
bonds in the penal sum of $50,ooo or such sum or stums as
may be required by law in the form required by the War
Department, to insure the safe-keeping and return, when
required by the Secretary of War, of certain military equipment for the R. O. T. C. courses.
The Board took a recess from 3:45 o'clock to 4:30 o'clock
in order that the Regents might attend the funeral of the late
Professor Isaac Newton Demmon.
The President reported the acceptance of the fellowships
tendered by the National Twist Drill and Tool Company
(see page 7) and the appointmiient of Ingle B. Whinery to




32


OCTOBER MEETING, 1920


one of these fellowships with stipend of $500 for the University year I920-1921.
Dean Lloyd for the Executive Board of the Graduate
School reported the resignation of Merle A. Storr from a
University scholarship of $250 (see page 916, preceding
volume).
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the following four persons were appointed as fellows in Highway Engineering and
Highway Transport with stipends of $250o each for the period
held during the University year I920-1921, with an additional $50 allowance for expenses.
Richard R. Fauver, A.B., I917, Oberlin College.
E. R. Olbrich, C.E., I915, Pennsylvania State College.
Benjamin R. Reistein, B.S. in C.E., 1916, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.
Chia T. Yeh,. P.S. in C.E., 1916, Government Institute
of Technology, Shanghai, China, M.C.E., T920, Cornell University.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Evelyn Iortense Roberts, A. B., 1915, and Lewis Patrick Waldo, A. B., I9I8,
were each appointed to University scholarships of $300 for
the University year I920-I92I.
On motion of Regent Beal, Ruth Berdina Blekkink, A.
B., Hope College, I917, was appointed to a State College fellowship of $300 for the University year I920-1921.
On motion of Regent Ianchett, the compensation of Dr.
Frederick B. Wahr as Counselor to students sent by the Federal Board for Vocational Education; was increased from
$200 to $400 for the University year 1920-1921, with the
understanding that should a dean of men be appointed during the present University year and should the latter take
over the duties of the Counselor, Dr, Wahr's compensation
would cease accordingly.
The President reported that the University of Michigan
Alumni Association of Milwaukee, through Mr. Ralph E.
Newton of that city, had sent a check for $250, to serve as
a Milwaukee Fellowship in the University of Michigan for
the year I920-I921, to be awarded to Mr. Raymond Arndt,
a graduate of the Riverside High School of Milwaukee. On
motion of Regent Beal this fellowship was accepted, Mr.




OCTOBER MEETING, 920o


33


Arndt's nomination was confirmed, and the President was
requested to communicate to the alumni of Milwaukee the
appreciation of the Regents of this co-operation with the
work of the University.
The President filed with the Board a letter from Mr. A.
M. Todd of Kalamazoo offering to loan to the University
for a period of several months or longer a collection of paintings, marble statuary, porcelains, and enamels, together with
a number of his more rare books and manuscripts. On
motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board accepted the tender of
this loan exhibit in accordance with its terms, and requested
the President to express the thanks of the Regents to Mr.
Todd.
On motion of Regent Beal, Carl LaRue was appointed
Instructor in Botany for the first semester of the University
year 1920-1921 with salary of $750 for the semester. This
sum was added to the budget.
The President stated that a gentleman who planned to
erect a dormitory for men in Ann Arbor, as a private enterprise, desired to come to an understanding with the University authorities with respect to such conditions of living as
would enable the University to approve housing of students
in the dormitory. On motion of Regent Sawyer, this matter
was referred to the President with power.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board authorized an
extension of the time during which the University Library is
opened on Sunday to include such evening hours as might
be determined by the Librarian. The sum of $I500 was
added to the budget to cover the estimated expense.
The President presented the report of Miss Marion 0.
Wood as Director of the Department of Physical Education
for Women, for I919-I920. On motion of Regent Sawyer
the report was received and placed on file.
On motion of Regent Clements, Withred Cook was appointed Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing for
the University year I920-I92I with compensation of $2200.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Holger Mads Hansen
was appointed Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing for the University year I920-I92I with salary of $2200
as provided in the budget; and Ernest Frank Potter was ap



34


OCTOBER MEETING, 1920


pointed Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing for
the same period with salary of $I500.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the salary of Ashley W.
Hudnutt, Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing
was increased from $2100 to $2200, and the salary of Albert
L. Clark, Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing
was increased from $1700 to $I800.
These above-named three appointments and two increases
do not involve any addition to the total of the budget as
already adopted.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Anthony J. Jobin was
appointed Instructor in Modern Languages in the Colleges
of Engineering and Architecture with salary of $2000 for
the year 1920-I921 as provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Beal, Adelbert George Bouchard
was appointed Instructor in Rhetoric with salary of $I8oo,
vice George G. Wright, withdrawn, and George Campbell
Quinnell was appointed Instructor in Rhetoiric with salary of
$I5oo both for the University year I920-I92I as provided in
the budget.
On motion of Regent Beal, Martha Guernsey was appointed Assistant in Rhetoric for the University year I920 -192I with salary of $250 as provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Clements following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, degrees, certificates, and teacher's
diplomas were voted as follows:BACHELOR O0 ARTS


Donald Hook Bacon
Lilla Belle Bacon
Edith Mary Barley
Joseph Lloyd Battista
*Abram Cornelius Benjamin
William John Bossenbroek
*Joseph Walter Britton
Lena Velma Brownell
Edward Buckner
Warren Selby Burchell
With Distinction.
** With High Distinction.


Roby McKinley Burley
'*Dorothea Calhoun Comlfort
Hugh Augustus Cook
Glenn Howard Cummings
Emma Lyall Drulmmond
Gaius Herbert Dunlap
*Lucius Wade Fast
Raymond Edgar Flynn
*Stanley Morris Friedlnan
Douglas Jardine Gilchrist




OCTOBER I JEETING, 120o


35


Edmoond Tuttle Goodrich
Bernard Edward Harkins
Arthur Jesse Hass
Helen Beatrice Havinghurst
Harry Wefler Heffner
*Maud Lois Hindman
Helen Pauliine Hirth
Ellis James Hopkins
Dorothy Houghton
Willard Louis Huss
Lionel Hubert Johnson
Vernon Theodore Johnson
''Ruth Young Jolhston
James Tyle Kassner
Kemp Horace Keena
J. Lester Kobacker
Ellen AVilmer Lardner
Leo Robert LaRochelle
Mary Regina Miahar
Robert Marion, Jr.
XMel.vin Earl -Milattern
Samulel Meeverson
Samuel MIelvin Alichener
Gordon Richmond A lirick


Marion Lee Moses
Parks Adair Nutter
Helen Eileen Ohmlstead
Glenn A. Ormans
Dorothy Elizabeth Paton
Edgar George Reindel
Kenneth Edgar Relhea
Florence Miary Rogers
Henry Glenn Ross
Villiam Phillips Sandford
John Joseph Schafer
'B'enjamin iTheodore Smith
Lelah Ruth Stephens
Frances Estella Swift
Ralph LaRue Tallman
Marjorie Lucille Vivian
Ruth Irene W'alker
DeForrest Darwin \Valton
(as of the Class of I915)
Owen Jefferson WVatts
(as of the Class of Ic9)8)
Clifford Vaughan WVhitcomlj
*Theo Josephine 'Wilson
Julian Edmuund Zapp


-ACH-IrI, OR OF SCiENCE
(in Chemistry)
1-lazel Katherine Platt
BACCHEL,OR Oc SCrI.NC
(in Medicine)
Harold Bartholoimew Fenech       'Bruce Alexander Harris
Joseph David IHeilman
PBACHELOR OF SCIENCE
A"Marshall Adelbert Goff
BUSINTESS A.DlTMINIS'i'RATION CERTIVICAT'I


Ruth Edith Chesebro
Edmond Tuttle Goodrich
* With Distinction.
** \With Iilh Distinction.


Harry Wefler Heffner
Kenneth Edgar Relvea




.36


OCTOB3ER MEETING, I20o


TE^,ACIZER"S DIPLOMA


Lldith -MAary Barley
Lilla Belle Bacon
Dorothea Calhoun Comfort
Lucius Wade Fast
Ellis James Hopkins
Dorothy Hdughton
Christina Kersey
Mary Regina Mahar
Samuel IMIeyerson
Gordon Richmond Mirick
Helen Eileen Ohmstead
Glenn A. Omans


Raclel Phebe Parrish
Dorothy Elizabeth Paton
Florence Mary Rogers
Alice Bertha Rhodes
John Joseph Schafer
Lelah Ruth Stephens
Frances Estella Swift
Marjorie Lucille Vivian
Ruth Irene Walker
Clifford Vaughan Whitcomb
Alice Henrietta WVatkins


On motion of Regent Clements following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Law School the degree of
Bachelor of Laws was voted to the following:Harry Eliot Barnard, A.B., Oberlin College, I915
Selden Bennetts Daume
Henry Barnard Davis, A.B., Yale University, T9II
Edgar George Gordon, A.B., Hillsdale College, I916
Oris Wesley Helsel
John Francis Higginson
Iaurence (Dominic) Denny Larke, A.B. I917
Edward William MAassie
De Thurston Mosier
J. Adrian Rosenburg
Delos Grosvenor Smith, A.B. I919
Laureston Oliver Telfer
On motion of Regent Beal, Assistant Professor Henry
F. Adams was promoted to be Associate Professor of
Psychology with salary of $3500 beginning with the University year I920-I921. This action adds $oo000 to the budget.
On motion of Regent Beal, the following appointments
and changes were made in the Department of Economics, all
being within provision already made in the budget:E. S. Wolaver was appointed Instructor in Business
Law with salary of $2400 for the University year 1920-1921,
to take the work of Homer Hoyt, who did not accept his
appointment as Assistant Professor of Business Law.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1920


37


The salary of William F. Hauhart was fixed at $2200
for the University year 1920-I92I instead of $2000.
C. H. May and P. A. Nutter were appointed Instructors in Economics for the University year 1920-1I21 with
salary of $I500 each.
Lotta C. Coombs was appointed Library Assistant with
salary of $700 for the period between September: 1, I920,
and June 30, 1921.
Avis L. Mabbs was appointed Clerk in the Department
of Economics for the year beginning July I, I920, with salary of $75 per month.
The Board authorized the appointment of an Instructor
to give the courses in Labor for which' the budget as.originally adopted provided an associate professorship at $3600
for the year, which professorship has not thus far been
filled.
The Board referred to the President with power the
question whether a student in the combined course in Letters
and Nursing should be required to pay fees while still enrolled in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
after enrollment in the Nurses Training School.
On motion of Regent Clements $300 was added to the
budget of Waterman Gymnasium to provide instruction in
boxing.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote except
where otherwise expressly stated.
The Board adjourned to Wednesday, November 3, I920,
9:3 A. M.
SHIIRLEY W. SAIITHI,
Secretary




NOVEMBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, I
ANN ARBOR, NOVEMBER 3, I920. j
The Board met in the Regents' Room at 9:35 A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
Hanchett, Regent Gore, Regent Murfin, Regent Clenents,
and Superintendent Johnson. Absent, Regent Sawyer, and
Regent Hubbard.
On motion of Regent Gore, it was voted to approve the
actions of the Executive Committee as evidenced by the following minutes of that Committee's meetings:October 12, I920
Present, the President, Regent Beal, and Regent Sawyer.
Four student assistants in Analytical Chemistry were
authorized for the first semester only at $50 each, $200.
Three additional instructors in Rhetoric were authorized
at $I500 each, $4500.
The above were necessitated by over-crowded classes.
October 13, 1920
Present, the President, Regent Beal, and Regent Sawyer.
Carl Brandt was appointed Teaching Assistant in Public
Speaking, 1920-I92I, $Iooo, to care for additional students.
Teaching assistants were authorized in General and Physical Chemistry as required by additional students, $600.
Permission was given to employ an acting instructor in
General and Physical Chemistry at $0oo, in place of an instructor previously allowed at $2000 and to apply this difference of $II00 to the employment of assistants at varying
rates as specified by Professors Campbell and Bigelow.
The purchase of ancient papyri by the University of
Michigan Expedition was approved at not to exceed $2500.
$4I00 was thus added to the budget.
Papers in support of all the above actions are filed with
the minutes.




40            NOVEMfBER MvEETI.NG, 1920
The Board discussed further the legislative and building program    considered at the October meeting (see page
229.  Certain readjustments were mrade in tlhe program        as
agreed upon that meeting.        The program     as finally and
formally agreed upon is embodied in the following statement filed by the President: —
Requested         Requested
for               for
Nalme of Building           I92I-I922           I922-I923
First unit of General Building for
Literary College.....         45,ooo           $ 450,000
Museum.............       45,oo               450,000
Engineering Shops
and Laboratories......       750,000             750,000
Physics Laboratory...        400,000             400,000
Medical Building......        450,000             450,000
Completion of Training
School...............       I75,000              7500ooo
Addition to College
of Dentistry........        200,000
Addition to Chemical
Laboratory..........         200,000             200,000
Biological Station at
Douglas Lake........         40,000
Totals..........     $3,I I5,000         $2,875,000
3,II5,000
Total for both years........................ $5,990,000
Completion of University
H ospital.......................................  1,500,000
Total for Buildings and Equipment.............$7,490 000
For  purchase  of  land..........................  1,200,000
Grand  Total...............................$8,690,000
I. These estimates include equipment for all buildings.
2. It should be clearly understood now, that the accumulated needs of the University indicate that it will be
necessary to ask the Legislatures of 1923 and 1925
each for $5,000,000 for additional buildings.   The




NOVEMBER MEETING, I920


4i


Board of Regents is therefore presenting a six-year
building program.
The President presented a letter from Professor W. C.
Hoad representing the Building Committee of the Presbyterian Church of Ann Arbor, stating that it was the purpose of that society to erect a building for its use on the
south side of South University Avenue between East University Avenue and Haven Avenue, if the University would
not need this site for its own purposes. The Presbyterian
Building Committee desired to know the attitude of the
Regents. On motion of Regent Clements, the following resolution was adopted:Resolved, That the Regents at this time see no objection
to the use of land as proposed by the Presbyterian Church.
The President filed a general report of Professor J. A.
Bursley as Director of the University Housing Bureau.
showing expenditures thus far of approximately $3000, of
which over $2300 had been paid for housing equipment
which the University would retain for its use in future emergencies. On motion of Regent Clements, the Board referred the whole matter of student housing conditions to
the Regents' Comlnittee on Student Welfare for investigation and report to the Regents, and requested Professor
Bursley to continue in the meantime as chairman of the
Housing Bureau to adjust questions at issuee between students and their landlords.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board formally voted
$3000 to cover the expenses of the Housing Bureau,
Regent Beal made an informal report upon the Inauguration and Educational Conference held October 14 and
15, and read numerous letters from delegates from other
institutions expressing appreciation of the service which
the Conference had rendered to educational progress. On
motion  of Regent Murfin, the Board voted that the
printing of the report of the Conference be left with the
Committee appointed at the meeting of May, I920 (see page
926, preceding volume), namely, Regent Beal, Chairman,




42


NOVEM BER MEETING, I920


Dean Vaughan, Dean Cooley, Dean Bates, and Dean Effinger.
Regent Leland reported that he had examined and had
approved the report of the Secretary and the Treasurer for
the year ended June 30, I920 (see page 30).
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board added $rooe
to the Military Roster account.
The Board adjourned for llnch.
AFTERCNOON SESSION
lThe Regents reassembled at 2:oo o'clock. Present, the
President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent Gore, Regent Clements, Regent Murfin, and Superintendent Johnson.
Absent, Regent Sawyer, Regent Hubbard, and         Regent
Hanchett.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That hereafter, unless otherwise specially
voted, this Board shall hold a regular meeting on the first
Friday of each month.
The President reported that he had sent a letter eimbodying the following three points to a man proposing to
erect a dormitory for men (see page 33):I. It is the Regents' belief that properly built and equipped dormitories at this time, especially for freshmen students, would be very desirable.
2. The Regents would reserve the right at all times and
under all circumstances to control the students of the University, and to pass reasonable rules and regulations concerning the administration of these dormitories, with particular reference to matters of health, hygiene, and any other
matters insuring to the young men proper atmosphere and
proper surroundings.
3. The Regents could not permit the housing of any large
number of students in any other than an absolutely fireproof structure.




NOVEMBER MEETING, I920


43


On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board approved the
President's letter and endorsed the three principles as expressing the policy of the Regents.
TIhe President reported that the Committee appointed
October I (see page 29), consisting of himself, Regent
Sawyer, and Regent Clements had approved the following
for the Medical School:Four assistants in Anatomy at $Iooo each........$ 4,000.00
Three assistants in Bacteriology at $Iooo each..... 3,000.00
Building addition in the court of the Medical
Building....................................  4,795.I0
Anatomy Special Equipment Fund..............    612.00
Bacteriology Special Equipment Fund.......... 3,934.96
Total.....................................$I6,342.06
The Secretary reported the following resignations, appointments and other changes in the University staff, as
authorized by the President:Resignations and Declinations
Sidney M. Borrow, Mechanician, Department of Physics,
resigned August 30, 1920.
Philip M. Molt, Instructor in Modern Languages, Colleges of Engineering and Architecture, at $2oo00, declined.
Robert Dieterle, Technical Assistant in Pathology, Medical School, salary of $700 payable from College of Dental
Surgery budget, resigned September 15, I920.
Margaret B. Kellogg, Clerk and Cashier, Department of
Roentgenology, Medical School, resigned September 30,
I920.
J. Etta Mullen, Assistant and Research Worker in Surgery, Medical School, declined.
Esther Betz, Cataloger in the General Library, resigned
September I, 1920.
J. Harold Hathaway, Stack Clerk in the General Library,
resigned September 30, 1920.
Dr. Bessie Coffin, Assistant in the Homoeopathic Medical School, declined.
Lee Hoadley, Sunday and Holiday Assistant in the Museum, resigned September 30, 1920.
Mayme Harcourt, Addressograph Operator, Alumni Catalogue Office, resigned October 25, I920.




44


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1920


Appointments
(All for the academic year I920-I92I, unless otherwise
stated.)
COLLIEGE O0 ITIERATURI, SCIENCtE AND THEI ARTS
A dministration
Calvin 0. Davis, Chairman of the Freshman Advisory
Committee, $200.
Astronomy
H. R. Carpenter, Assistant, $200.
M. K. Jessop, Assistant, $200.
D. B. McLaughlin, Assistant, $200.
Bo tany
Dow V. Baxter, Assistant, $300.
Mary V. Cannon, Assistant, $400.
Ella M. Clark, Assistant, $500.
Fred R. Clark, Assistant, $450.
Frank B. Cotner, Assistant, $500.
E. E. Dale, Assistant, $500.
Granville H. Evans, Undergraduate Assistant, $300.
Ruth Hayes, half-time Assistant, $250.
Mana F. Kilpatrick, Undergraduate Assistant, $300.
Jean McAllister, Assistant in Herbarium, $300.
Lewis E. Wehmeyer, Assistant, $300.
Economics
Frederick A. Bradford, Assistant, $250.
Frederick D. Carroll, Assistant, $250.
John J. Hanselman, Assistant, $250.
Harold Herman, Assistant, $250.
Seward L. Horner, Laboratory Assistant, $400.
Lozar A. Itzkovich, Assistant, $250.
Perry Mason, Assistant, $250.
Florence K. Middaugh, Assistant, $250.
Edwar'd G. Punke, Assistant, $250.
Samuel R. Rosenthal, Assistant, $250.
Donald Scott, Assistant, $250.
Harold M. Shapero, half-time Assistant, $I25.
Herman Wyngaarden, Assistant, vice John Hanselman,
promoted, $250.
Floyd E. Young, Assistant, $250.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 920o


45


Education
Margaret Cobb, Assistant, Bureau of Tests and Measurements, $2000.
Grace V. Martin, Stenographer, Appointment Committee,
vice Blanch Walters, resigned, from September I, 1920,
$o080 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Arthur L. Reagh, part-time Instructor in Industrial Education in Grand Rapids, from November I, I920, $I00 per
month.
Irene Scallon, Reading Assistant, $300.
Gladys Schenk, Stenographer, Bureau, of Tests and
Measurements, from October I8, 1920, $1200 per year,
twelve-months' basis.
Leona B. Trevor, Stenographer, vice Genevieve Stough,
resigned, from  October 4, 1920, $I200 per year, twelvemonths' basis.
English
Charles C. Fries, half-time Instructor, $00ooo.
Fine Arts
Alice A. Adams, Assistant, $300.
Forestry
John S. Barnes, Assistant, $200.
Allis F. Hussey, Assistant, $I00oo.
H. M. Lumsden, Assistant, $Ioo.
Geology
Lawrence M. Gould, Teaching Assistant, $550.
Roland C. Hussey, Teaching Assistant, $800.
Margarite Rochat, Assistant, $200.
Leroy G. Snow, Assistant, $Ioo.
Ellen B. Stevenson, Assistant, $6oo.
Ernest Stiller, Assistant, $450.
Dorothy E. True, Assistant, $200.
History
Charles T. Andrews, Assistant, $350.
Vera Andrus, Assistant, $350.
J. M. Chase, Assistant, $350.
Karl W. Guenther, Assistant, $350.
Albert C. Jacobs, Assistant, $350.
Cyrus H. Karraker, Assistant, $500.




46


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1920


Nelson V. Russell, Assistant, $6oo.
H. J. Ryskamp, Instructor, $I800.
Benjamin D. Shapiro, Second Assistant, $350.
Landscape Design
Karl Kranz, Student Assistant, $200.
R. W. Medford, Assistant, Summer Session at 1920, $30
for the period.
Jlfathematics
Abram C. Benjamin, Assistant, $300.
Lloyd Crippen, half-time Assistant in Insurance, $300.
Esther MacDonald, Assistant and Computer in Insurance, $600.
Emeterio Roa, half-time Assistant in Insurance, $300.
Ralph Swift, Assistant, $300.
Mlineralogy
Morrow C. Miller, Assistant, $200.
Philosophy and Psychology
Amos C. Anderson, Assistant, $200.
Lowell J. Carr, Assistant, $500.
Martha Guernsey, Assistant, $250.
Emma Jacobs, Assistant, $200.
Helen Kurti, Assistant, $200.
Richard M. Page, Assistant, $300.
Irene Peers, Assistant, $200.
Dorothy Petit, Assistant, $200.
Physics
Ross Gunn, two-thirds time Instructor, $Iooo.
F. G. Nagel, Instrument Maker, vice Sidney Borrow, resigned, from November I, I920, $2200 per year, twelvemonths' basis.
Robert F. Paton, Instructor, $2000.
Paul Ziegelbaur, Assistant, from October 25, I920, $300.
Political Science
Robert F. Buechner, Assistant, $300.
Walter T. Dunn, Assistant, $500.
James K. Pollock, Jr., Assistant, $300.
Ernest B. Schultz, Assistant, $300.
Public Speaking
J. Harold Hathaway, Instructor, $I800oo.
Archie G. Leonard, Assistant, $200.




NOVEMBER MEETING, z920


47


Rhetoric
Waldo M. Abbott, Teaching Assistant, $400.
Kenneth Kuhn, Assistant, $250.
C. G. Schmiedeskamp, Assistant, $300.
H. R. Slusser, Assistant in Journalism, $,oo.
Romance Languages
Carlos S. Esteves, Assistant in Spanish, $750.
Agapito Rey, Assistant in Spanish, $750.
COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
A dministration
Byron P. Djiras, Student Assistant, $250.
Helen G. McNamee, Student Assistant, $250.
Aaron W. Manby, Student Assistant, $250.
Architecture
R. H. Ainsworth, Student Assistant, first semester, $Ioo
per year.
Katherine B. Heller, Teaching Assistant, $400.
Frederick C. O'Dell, Instructor, $2000.
John H. Pielemeier, Teaching Assistant, first semester,
$600 per year.
Ruth Roberts, Clerk, from  October I I, 920, $90 per
month.
J. E. Somppi, Teaching Assistant, first semester, $400 per
year.
Chemical Engineering
A. Raymond Carr, Teaching Assistant, $750.
H. E. Gladhill, Teaching Assistant, $750.
E. R. Johnson, Student Assistant, $250.
H. A. Johnson, Student Assistant, $250.
J. W. Kennedy, Student Assistant, $250.
Myrtie Mulholland, half-time Stenographer, from October 4, 920, $6oo00 (see also Pharmacy).
R. B. Shurts, Student Assistant, $250.
W. H. Stevens, Stenographer, from    August I, 1920,
$I200 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Lee Van Horn, Student Assistant, $250.
R. B. Werey, Student Assistant, $250.
Civil Engineering
J. A. Barger, Student Assistant, $200.
J. F. Beal, Student Assistant, $200.
G. S. Burr, Student Assistant, $200




48


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1920


I. M. Dansard, Student Assistant, $200.
G. D. Kennedy, Student Assistant, $200.
S. D. Porter, Student Assistant, $200.
A. Corrie Raubenheimer, Stenographer and Clerk in
Highway Engineering, from   October I, I920, $1200 per
year, twelve-months' basis.
A. R. Reynolds, Student Assistant, $200.
V. B. Steinbaugh, Student Assistant, $200.
W. C. Stinson, Student Assistant, $200.
E. L. Trachsel, Assistant, $600.
Descriptive Geometry and Drawing
C. W. Auer, Student-Assistant, $I25.
M. S. Bald, Student Assistant, $125.
P. J. Beatty, Student Assistant, $125.
Donald Hauselt, Student Assistant, $I25.
W. C. Leingang, Student Assistant, $125.
F. I. Nolan, Student Assistant, $I25.
D. J. Sheehan, Student Assistant, $I25.
H. S. Simpson, Student Assistant, $I25.
R. A. Stadler, Student Assistant, $I25.
C. E. Tandy, Student Assistant, $125.
N. K. Trackett, Student Assistant, $I25.
G. L. Wessinger, Student Assistant, $I25.
Electrical Engineering
Stephen S. Attwood, Instructor, from October 25, I920,
$I800 per year.
G. M. Bunting, Student Assistant, $II2.50.
M. B. Covell, Student Assistant, $112.50.
M. D. Friedman, Student Assistant, $112.50.
D. A. Lewis, Student Assistant, $112.50.
J. H. Pilkington, Student Assistant, $II2.50.
Engineering Mechanics
William S. Clarkson, Student Assistant, $I25.
J. S. Gault, Student Assistant, $I25.
G. E. Korten, Student Assistant, $125.
Axel Marin, Student Assistant, $200.
M. E. Salisbury, Student Assistant, $125.
Engineering Shops
E. W. Anderson, Student Assistant, $300.
G. H. LeBouef, Student Assistant, $225
A. J. Stock, Student Assistant, $225.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1920


49


Marine Engineering
Cecil E. Archer, Student Assistant in Aeronautics, $250.
William H. Gridley, Student Assistant in Naval Architecture, $250.
Mlechanical Engineering
J. E. Boice, Student Assistant, $250.
L. K. Ferris, Student Assistant, $250.
L. R. Garman, Student Assistant, $250.
W. E. Grainger, Student Assistant, $250.
Henry A. Lewis, Student Assistant, $250.
H. P. McNaughton, Student Assistant, $250.
W. E. Mason, Teaching Assistant, $750.
H. G. Neelans, Student Assistant, $250.
J. W. Oltman, Student Assistant, $250.
C. R. Paton, Student Assistant, $250.
W. W. Peattie, Student Assistant, $250.
F. W. Redemsky, Student Assistant, $250.
Modern Languages
Emilio Serra, Assistant, first semester, $300 per year.
Surveying.
Barnet Brezner, Stenographer, $6oo.
H. R. Carpenter, Student Assistant, $250.
H. G. McNamee, Student Assistant, $250.
R. H. Pacquette, Student Assistant, $250.
H. E. Ramsey, Student Assistant, $250.
J. M. Sessions, Student Assistant, $250.
H. W. Slack, Teaching Assistant, $750.
J. P. Winchell, Student Assistant, $250.
Edward Young, Teaching Assistant, $750.
MEDICAL SCHOOL
Anatomy
George W. Chambers, Assistant, $Iooo.
Myrton Shaw Chambers, Assistant, $Iooo.
Ernest E. Huber, Assistant, for five months from October to February, $500 for the period.
Walter M. Simpson, Assistant, $Iooo.
Hewitt Smith, Assistant, $Iooo.




510


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1920


Bacteriology
Theodore I. Bauer, Assistant, $Iooo.
Dorothy W. Caldwell, Assistant in Hygiene, in charge of
Water Analysis and Assistant in Pasteur Institute, $Iooo.
I. M. Cohn, Assistant in Physiological Chemistry, for a
period of four months from October I, $300 for the period.
Werner W. Duemling, Assistant, $000ooo.
Earl B. McKinley, Assistant in Physiological Chemistry,
$I000.
Max S. Marshall, Research Assistant, $Iooo.
Albert P. Ohlmacher, Assistant, $Iooo.
Harold R. Roehm, Assistant, $Iooo.
Shelby W. Wishart, Assistant, $000ooo.
Roentgenology
Johanna J. Malherbe, Clerk, vice Mrs. D. H. Stewart,
transferred, from October I, $900 per year, twelve-months,
basis.
Deborah H. Stewart, Clerk and Cashier, vice Margaret
Kellogg, resigned, from October I, $9oo per year, twelvemonths' basis.
Surgery
John S. Chambers, Research Assistant, for nine months
from October I, $900 for the period.
Leland E. Holly, Research Assistant, for nine months
from October I, $90o for the period.
CHEMISTRY
Chemical Laboratory
Adrian T. Hess, half-time Dispensing Assistant, $250.
S. Lipman, half-time Dispensing Assistant, $250.
R. A. McClatcher, half-time Dispensing Assistant, $250.
A. B. Otis, half-time Dispensing Assistant, $250.
Harold F. Palmer, Dispensing Assistant, from   October I, $Ioo per month.
Jack Raitt, half-time Dispensing Assistant, $250.
Analytical Chemistry
William W. Albright, Laboratory Assistant in Qualitative Analysis, $o0o.
Monica M. Allen, Laboratory Assistant in Qualitative
Analysis, first semester, $Ioo per year.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1920


5I


Leigh C. Anderson, Laboratory Assistant in Quantitative
Analysis, $200.
Egbert K. Bacon, Laboratory Assistant in Quantitative
Analysis, $200.
Geraldine Brasie, Laboraiory Assistant in Qualitative
Analysis, $Ioo.
C. H. Chen, Lecture Assistant, $600.
Theron G. Finzel, Laboratory Assistant in Qualitative
Analysis, $Ioo.
Arthur J. Good, Laboratory Assistant in Qualitative
Analysis, $Ioo.
Jacob K. Johnson, Laboratory Assistant in Qualitative
Analysis, first semester, $oo00 per year.
Frances M. Lutes, Laboratory Assistant in Qualitative
Analysis, first semester, $Ioo.
Warren L. McCabe, Laboratory Assistant in Qualitative
Analysis, $200.
Louis A. Michael, Laboratory Assistant in Qualitative
Analysis, $Ioo.
Elizabeth M. Roberts, Laboratory Assistant in Qualitative Analysis, $Ioo.
Lester R. Rodenberg, Laboratory Assistant in Qualitative Analysis, $Ioo.
John F. Ross, Teaching Assistant, $600.
George R. Strimbeck, Jr., Laboratory Assistant in Qualitative Analysis, $Ioo.
Elton B. Tucker, Laboratory. Assistant in Qualitative
Analysis, $oo00.
Edward C. Watts, Laboratory Assistant in Qualitative
Analysis, first semester, $Ioo per year.
General and Physical Chemistry
Adam G. Aitchison, Teaching Assistant, $700.
Dewitt Bell, Laboratory Assistant, $Ioo.
J. Walter Britton, Teaching Assistant, $6oo.
Dwight C. Carpenter, Acting Instructor, $900oo.
Lee 0. Case, Teaching Assistant, $700.
Paul V. Clark, Teaching Assistant, $600.
William L. Fink, Laboratory Assistant, $I50.
John S. France, Laboratory Assistant, $Ioo.
Marshall A. Goff, Teaching Assistant, $600.
Arthur M. Holmes, Teaching Assistant, $600.




52            NOTI/EMIBER MEETING, 1920
N. H. Johnson, Laboratory Assistant, $Ioo.
James L. Kassner, Teaching Assistant, $600.
Harold Kripke, Laboratory Assistant, $I50.
Donald Lamb, Laboratory Assistant, $I50.
Levin M. Litzenberger, Teaching Assistant, $600.
J. Musser Miller, Teaching Assistant, $600.
Richard A. Nugent, Laboratory Assistant, $I50.
Jacob E. Rosenberg, Teaching Assistant, $600.
Malcolm H. Soule, Teaching Assistant, $600.
Gerrit Van Zyl, Teaching Assistant, $600.
George B. Watkins, Laboratory Assistant, $200.
Harold G. Whitcomb, Laboratory Assistant, $200.
Roy R. Wilson, Laboratory Assistant, $Ioo.
Harry T. Winsemius, Teaching Assistant, $700.
Milton Wruble, Laboratory Assistant, $Ioo.
Organic Chemistry
Clifford C. Buchler, Research Assistant, $750.
Glen C. Forrester, Teaching Assistant, $600.
Albert MacLeod, Laboratory Assistant, $200.
Donald L. Tabern, Laboratory Assistant, $200.
LAW SCHOOL
Ralph E. Gault, Clerk in the Practice Court, $I50.
William C. Palmer, First Assistant in the Law Library,
$500.
G. A. Trevor, Second Assistant in the Law Library, $350.
COLLEGE 0o1 PHARMACY
Elmer L. Hammond, Assistant, $200.
Raymond C. Warner, Assistant, $200.
Myrtie Mulholland, half-time Stenographer, $6oo, (see
also Chemical Engineering).
HOMOEOPATHIC MEDICAL SCHOOL
Frances Ripley, Assistant, vice Bessie Coffin, withdrawn,
from October ii, $500 per year, twelve-months' basis.
COLLEGE 0o1 DENTAL SURGERY
Floyd B. Crill, in charge of Dental Clinic for Ann Arbor
school children, $200.
L. Coleman Ludlum, Research Assistant upon the State




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1920                         53
Dental Society Research Fund, for eight months from October I, $75 per month.
Lauretta M. Roland, Clerk, from  October 15, $35 per
month.
Mabel Strong, Teaching Assistant in Pathology, vice
Robert R. Dieterle, $0.45 per hour.
GENERAL LIBRARY
Edward H. Eppens, Stack Clerk, vice J. Harold Hathaway, resigned, from October I, $1200 per year, twelvemonths' basis.
Josephine M. Holcombe, half-time Cataloger, from October I, $550 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Estelle G. Mackensen, Stenographer in the Order Department, from October I, $I200 per year, twelve-months'
basis.
Kirke C. Veeder, Junior Assistant in Graduate Reading
Room No. 3, vice Edward H. Eppens, transferred, from October 15, $IIoo per year, twelve-months' basis.
Constance Winchell, Cataloger, vice Esther Betz, resigned, from  October I8, $I500 per year, twelve-months'
basis.
DEAN Or WOMEN
Lucy C. Green, Secretary to the Dean of Women, vice
Anna Lloyd, resigned, from October 4, $io08 per year,
twelve-months' basis.
MUSEUM
Harley B. Sherman, Sunday and Holiday Assistant, vice
Lee Hoadley, resigned, from October I, $I per day.
WATERMAN GYMNASIUM
T. Sullivan, part-time Instructor in Boxing, for the period of four months from January I, I92I, $300 for the
period.
UNIVERSITY EXTENSION
Charles S. Berry, to give a one-hour course in Educational Measurements, in Grand Rapids, first semester, $300
per year.
John L. Brumm, to give a two-hour course in Journalism, in Detroit, first semester, $800 per year.




54           NOVEMBER MEETING, I920
Solomon F. Gingerich, to give a two-hour course in
English Literature, in Detroit, $400 per year.
H. W. Herman, Reading Assistant to Professor A. E.
Wood in a two-hour course in Sociology, in Detroit, first
semester, $80o per year.
Catherine D. Wenley, Assistant to Professor R. M.
Wenley, in two two-hour courses in Philosophy, one course
in Detroit, and one in Jackson, $I80 per year.
Robert M. Wenley, to give two two-hour courses in
Philosophy, one in Detroit and one in Jackson, $600 per
year and expenses.
Guy M. Whipple, to give a two-hour course in Educational Measurements, first semester, in Battle Creek, $600
per year and expenses.
Arthur E. Wood, to give a two-hour course in Sociology
in Detroit, first semester, $600 per year and traveling expenses.
MILITARY SCIINCI AND TACTICS
Master Signal Sergeant Roy W. Collier, Laboratory Assistant, without pay.
Claude Russell, half-time Assistant, from October I,
$37.50 per month.
Ernest S. Shepard, half-time Assistant, from October I,
$37.50 per month.
ALUMNI CATALOGUE OFIFICt
Lunette Hadley, Addressograph Operator, vice Mayme
Harcourt, resigned, $70 per month, from October I8.
PUBLIC HEALTH NURSING
Anna Stacklewitz, Stenographer, from October 13, $IO80
per year, twelve-months' basis.
Promotions
COLLGE O0 LITtRATURE, SCIENCE, AND THs ARTS
Economics
John J. Hanselman, from Assistant at $250 per year, to
Instructor, first semester, $I500 per year.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1920


55


Physics
A. L. Becker, from half-time Instructor at $750 per year,
to two-thirds time Instructor, $Iooo per year.
Rhetoric
Waldo M. Abbott, from Teaching Assistant at $400, to
Instructor at $I500.
COLLEGES OE ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTUREu
Modern Languages
Julio B. Luzunaris, from Assistant in Spanish at $300
to Instructor in Spanish, first semester, $I500 per year.
Salary Adjustments
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Education
Thomas Diamond, restored from the leave of absence
granted for the present academic year, to give two-thirds
time to work in Industrial Education in Grand Rapids,
from November I, I920, $200 per month, payable from
Smith-Hughes Fund.
History
Oie W. Stephenson, Instructor, salary of $2200 to be
paid from the Hudson Professorship Fund, thus releasing
the money appropriated for his salary for the payment of
assistants.
Philosophy
William  M. Trap, Assistant, salary increased  from
$600 to $800 per year.
GENERAL LIBRARY
Elinor Mullett, Cataloger, placed on half-time instead.of
full-time basis, from October I, with salary reduced from
$Io00 to $550 per year, twelve-months' basis.
HOMOEOPATHIC MEDICAL SCHOOL
Emma F. Hartshorn, Secretary to the Dean, salary increased from $900 to $1020 per year from October I.




56


NOVEMBER MEETING, I920


On motion of Regent ILeland, the Board approved the
use of the sum   of $i6oo appearing in the budget as, the
current expense account of the Bureau of Tests and Measurements, Department of Education, as a revolving fund
the purpose of which should be to provide the material used
in the Bureau, with provision for the resale of required
quantities of this material to schools co-operating with the
Bureau or served by it; It was the understanding of the
Regents that such resale should be at prices sufficient to
meet the expense of carrying stock and handling the work
involved in the purchase and sale thereof.
The Secretary reported that a number of incendiary
fires had occurred upon the campus during the preceding
two weeks, all of which had been extinguished without serious damage. Consideration was given to the means which
would be most likely to prevent further incendiarism.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board approved the acceptance of one-year, seven-per-cent notes in settlement of
the bequests to the University and to the Michigan.Union
by the late HI-enry Russel, (see page qo9, preceding volume).
The Secretary filed a report from     Cavanaugh    anid
Burke, Attorneys of the Regents, of the decision in the
case of the City of Detroit.vs. Edwin S. George, (see page
948, preceding volume). In deciding the case the Court
said:It is my opinion that the ownership of the Buildings
is the main question in this case. It has been held that
property held by the Regents of the University of Michigan
in their corporate capacity is the public property of the
state held by the corporation in trust for the purposes to
which it was devoted and is exempt from taxation. It
is expressly stipulated in the lease that the buildings shall
belong to the University and I fail to see any ownership
in them in the defendant George. The only interest that
he can possibly have is a leasehold interest. The buildings
both by the express terms of the lease and under the law
are part of the freehold and the property of the University.
As such, they are exempt from taxation and it becomes my
duty to direct a verdict in favor of the defendant of no
cause of action.




NOVEMBER MEETING, I920


57


On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board formally approved the settlement of the question at issue between the
University laundry and the Michigan Union, as agreed
upon by Mr. Homer Heath of the Michigan Union and
the Secretary (see page 25).
On motion of Regent Murfin; Charles T. Olmsted was
appointed Assistant Professor of Engineering Mechanics
for the year I920-I921 with salary of $2500 as provided in
the budget.
The Regents postponed action upon a communication
from Dean Lloyd of the Graduate School outlining a!lan
for facilitating research and improving teaching in all departments of study in the University.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board added the
sum of $1850 to the Librarian's fund (see page 749, lreceding volume), to permit the purchase of a collection of
books largely dealing with the history of the Netherlands.
The vote on this motion w as as follows: Yes, Regent Clements, Regent Gore, Regent Murfin; no, Regent Leland, Regent Beal.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Regents accepted
with thanks a gift to the Law Library of a collection of
briefs, legal and historical periodicals, and various other
publications, from the library of the late Otto Kirclner,
tendered by his son, Mr. Richard Kirchner, of Detroit.
A communication from the Dean of the Summer Session requested that salaries in the Summer Session be fixed as follows for members of the staff doing full-time
work:Professors $900 and $Iooo.
Associate Professors $750.
Assistant Professors $6oo.
Instructors $450.
Regent Murfin moved that this schedule be approved.
This motion was lost on the following vote: Yes, Regent
Clements, Regent Murfin; no, Regent Leland, Regent Beal,
Regent Gore.
On motion of Regent Gore, the following Summer Ses



58


NO VEM1. BER MEETING, I920


sion schedule was adopted for the eight-weeks' sessions:Professors, class A, $900; class B, $850.
Associate Professors, $675.
Assistant Professors, $550.
Instructors, $425.
Class A professors are those receiving $5000 or more
for their work through the regular University year; class
B professors are those receiving less than $5000 for their
work during the. regular academic year.
The schedule above provided is to be adapted, as previously, to special conditions in the Medical School and the
Law School, as follows:In the Medical School seventy-five per cent of the salaries named in the above schedule shall be paid 'for instruction during the sessions of six weeks.
In the Law School class A professors shall be paid $225
and class B professors $212.50 for each teaching unit of
sixteen hours.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board made a continuing
provision for classes in Elementary Latin for entrance as
follows:For such instruction the student shall pay a special fee
of $io per semester. The instructor for 1920-I92I shall be
Dr. Orma F. Butler. For the first semester of I920-1921
her compensation shall be $6oo for three sections taught,
unless the special fees paid shall be less than $600 in which
case her compensation shall be the amount of the fees. In
future semesters, until further notice, the compensation of
the instructor shall be $200 per section per semester with
each section limited to approximately twenty students and
with the provision that the compensation of the instructor
shall not in any event exceed the special tuition paid.
On motion of Regent Leland, the sum of $1187.50 was
added to the Barbour Gymnasium equipment account to
provide lockers and corrective apparatus.
On motion of Regent Beal, upon recommendation of
the Faculty of the College of Pharmacy, degrees were voted
as follows:



NOVEMBER MEETING, 1920


59


PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST
Leonard Ransom Wagener
Jordan Yanakieff
BACHELOR O SCIENCt (in Pharmacy)
Roy Henry Clark
Norman Carl Fliegel
On motion of Regent Murfin, in accordance with the
recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate
School, degrees were voted as follows: —
MASTER 01! ARTS
James Douglass Bond, A.B.
Ella Marilla Campbell, A.B.
Mary Elizabeth Campbell, A.B.
Jesse Bryant Carpenter, A.B.
Laura Augusta Carpenter, A.B.
Stella Nora Cathcart, A.B., Western Maryland College
Geneive Worthington Clark, A.B.
Julio del Toro, A.B., Washington College, A.M. ibid.
Laurence Hobart Fleck, A.B.
Harry Cadwallader Fortner, A.B.
Charles Franklin Geeting, Ph.B. (Ed.), University of
Chicago.
Edna Fay Goodhew, A.B., Greenville College.
Cleveland Pendleton Hickman, A.B., Salem College.
Jennings Rush Hickman, A.B., Salem College.
Rose Anne Howe, A.B., Smith College.
Philip Murray Iloff, A. B.
William Marcellenus Laux, A.B.
Helen Alice Loomis, A.B. (Sci.), University of Illinois.
Mary Victoria Mummery, A.B.
Arthur Herbert Noyes, A.B., University of Wisconsin.
Hannah Alice Parkyn, A.B., Hillsdale College.
Andrew O. Skye, A.B.
Chester Baker Slawson, B.S.
Charles Lyle Spain, A.B
William Robert Spriegel, A.B., Lebanon University.
Frances Lucinda Stearns, B.S.
Lela Marie Wright, A.B.




60


VNOVEiIMBER MEETING, 1920


MASTER O0 SCIENCE
Mahlon Henry Buell, A.B., Hillsdale College
Mary Isabel Henkel, B.S., Purdue University
Leland Eugene Holly, A.B., Albion College
Amelia Rosea Kaden, A.B.
Cynthia Cornelia Lord, A.B., Adrian College
Charles Philip Miller, Jr., B.S., University of Chicago,
M.D., Rush Medical College
Gerrit Van Zyl, A.B., Hope College
MASTER O0 SCIE.NCE (in Chemistry)
Harold Eugene Gladhill, B.S. (Chem.)
Mary Louise Morse, B.S. (Chem.)
MASTER OF SCIENCE (in Engineering)
Alfred Carl Marwin, B.S.E.
The Board considered a new     schedule of fees for the
Summer Session but took no action.
On motion of Regent Clements, the following resolution was adopted:Inasmuch as there has been recorded in the records of
the Board an error in the cost arrangement for the Hospital
for the work of Albert Kahn, Architect, be it
Resolved, That the incorrect record of May 9, I919, page
583, be corrected to read as follows: Resolved, That the
officials of the University be authorized to enter into a
contract with Architect Kahn for plans and specifications
and receiving of tenders, letting of contracts, auditing of
bills, and general supervision at five per cent of the cost
of the executed work, plus traveling expenses and salary
of the clerk of the works.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board approved the
arrangement made by the Secretary for the continuance at
the expense of the Ann Arbor Board of Education of the
Dental Clinic for Ann Arbor School Children.      Dr. F. B.
Crill was appointed to do the work of the Clinic with compensation of $200 for which the University will be reimbursed as stated.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1920                  6 
On motion of Regent Clements, the following resolution was adopted:Resolved, That the Librarian may use his discretion in
the sale of duplicate periodical material, and that the sale
of this material if made be consummated through the Purchasing Department, and that the proceeds from such sales
be turned back to the Library for equitable distribution by
the Librarian to the General Library fund, the Medical
Library Book fund, and the Engineering Library Book
fund.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board directed that,
out of the proceeds of the sale of forty-six lots (see page
840, preceding volume), payment be made of the lateral
sewer assessment against such lots, of $2438 plus such interest as may have accrued. The opinion of Cavanaugh and
Purke to the effect that such assessment was properly payable by the Regents was filed by the Secretary.
The Board discussed the question involved in establishing a separate School of Education, a separate School
of Commerce, a College of Architecture, and a separately
organized Chemical Laboratory. The first of these questions was referred to the Regents' Committee on E'ducational Policies, with  Superintendent Johnson associated
with the Committee, for consideration and report.   No
action was taken with regard to the last-named three.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board extended an
invitation to the American Institute of Chemical Engineers
to hold one session in Ann Arbor during its meeting to be
held in Detroit next June, and authorized a luncheon to the
Institute, within an expense of $300, should the invitation
be accepted.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board voted against
publishing a separate register of alumni of the Colleges of
Engineering and Architecture.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board approved certain recommendations of the Faculty of the Colleges of
Engineering and Architecture with respect to the stage in
their courses when the Civil Engineering students should
receive their instruction in Surveying.




62


NOVEMBER MEETING, I920


On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board directed the
transfer of $8oo     from   the P'harmacv salary     roll to the
Health   Service account with the understanding that this
sum  should be used in fitting up room     - II40 in the Natural
Science Building    to  accommodate the Pharmacy or prescription work of the Health Service,
On motion of Regent Teland, the Board approved the
charging-off at the end of the year I919-1920 of the following overdrafts:Administration, Regents' Traveling   Expenses.$    408.54
Appointment Committee, Salaries...............       48.I5
University Health Service, Current......6...        62.01
University Health Service, Hospital Service Fund    163.57
Administration, Diplomas.....................    I,216.44
Administration, Non-Resident Lecturers.........     26.08
Administration, Postage......................      391.53
Administration, Taxes on California Iands......     64.42
Literary Administration, Current...............   i,672.78
Astronomy, Salaries...........................     45.00
Economics, Salaries...........................     I00.00
Fine Arts, Salaries............................8
History,  Salaries..............................  I88.oo
Latin, Removal of Entrance Conditions, Salaries   I,ogooo
Physics, Government Work...................         67.86
Public Speaking, Salaries.....................      I7.78
Engineering, Signal Corps Material............      21.84
Surveying, Moving Expense..................        31.3S
Engineering  Mathematics, Salaries............,400.00
Neurology, Current...........................      23.17
Ophthalmology, Current.......................       14.57
Pathology, Current...........................       47.76
Pediatrics, Current...........................     102.2I
Physiology,  Current..........................     13.52
Surgery, Current.............................       769
Summer Session, Current, I919.................      330.97
Biological Station, Current, I99I...............   100.79
General Library, Moving Expense................46.84
University Museum, Salaries.................       350.40
University Hospital, Current................... 76,829.03
University Hospital, Nurses' Home Equipment..       I58.95
Homoeopathic Hospital, Current............... 2.728.58
University Extension, H.S. Debating League...        92.65




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1920                        63
Buildings and Grounds:
Electric Light and Power........$  I92.09
Gas............................  2,483.17
Shop   Supplies...................  211.93
Water.........................     904.89
Switching Charges.............      3989
Fuel...........................  31,829.30
Locomotive Repairs.............   424.35
Michigan Union Tunnel..........    469.03
Power Plant, Salaries............ 1,466.34 $38,I20.99
Refunds, Summer Hospital..................    3,000.00
Total.............................$........$ 48,05I.60
The Secretary filed explanation of the reasons for each
of the overdrafts and reported further that balances turned back into the general fund on June 30, I920 totaled
$I33,790.o6.
On motion of Regent Beal, in accordance with the recommendation of. the Faculty of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture, degrees were voted as follows:BACHELOR OF SCIENCg IN ENGINEERING
(Mechanical Engineering)
Valroy Shield Barretta
Howard Nicholas Collins
Walter Davis Cook
John Charles Edwards
Clarence Earle Eichelberger
Clarence Herman Harpst
Norman William Hobson
Minot Edwards Lane
Edward August Macholl
William Stanley Morehouse
Federico Louis Mourglier
Kenneth James Sloan
Joseph Vincent Tracy
Pierce Albert Weyl
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
(Electrical Engineering)
Gordon Rowen Anderson
George Robert Clarke




64


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1920


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
(Chemical Engineering)
Gardner Hotchkiss Chidester
Herbert James Leland Cotton
Joseph Arkel Hovsepian
Lawrence Bunting Sims
Howard DeFord Willard-Jones
William Frederick Zingg
BACHELOR O0 SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
(Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering)
Joseph Dean Ballard
Carl Washburn Porter, as of the class of I919
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ARCHITECTURE
(Architecture)
George Howard Burrows
H-erbert Dale Schmitz
On motion of Regent Mtirfin, the following resolution,
which had been prepared by Regent Hubbard and would
have been offered by him    had he been able to be present,
was adopted by the Board:Resolved, That with a sense of personal loss the Board
of Regents record the passing away of the late Professor
Emeritus, Isaac Newton Demmon, for forty-five years a
teacher in this institution. In him the University possessed'
a keen and scholarly student of English literature, and a
valued instructor; the Library, a wise and far-sighted promoter of its special collections within his particular province, and a reverent custodian of its rare books; the
public, a citizen candid, outspoken, and fearless; and his
nearer acquaintance, a friend  whose cheerful humor,
kindly smile, and sympathetic companionship will ever be
their most cherished remembrance.
'he President asked whether it was the desire of the
Regents, in the light of present conditions, to continue
during I920-192I the University news service, for which




NOVEMBER MEETING, I920


65


allowance had been made in the budget.  On motion of
Regent Murfin, the Board directed that the Service be continued.
On motion of Regent Mlurfin, the Board authorized a
luncheon, within the cost of $300, to the University Press
Club of the State upon the occasion of the meeting of.that
club in Ann Arbor in the near future.
A communication from Professor Kelsev requested the
Regents to construe the will of the late Charles IL. Freer
in so far as it contained a bequest to the University (see
pages 30 and 31). On motion of Regent MAurfin, it was
declared to be the sense of the Board that the Regents were
not at this time in a position to give an interpretation upon
the point raised by Professor Kelsev.
On motion of Regent Clementsl the Board voted to request the CWar Department to detail Colonel Oliver L.
Spalding, Jr., to co-operate with the expedition now under
the charge of Professor Kelsey, as military expert in certain investigations bearing upon the campaigns of Julius
Caesar.  The vote upon this action was:   Yes, Regent
Clements, Regent Beal, Regent Gore; no, Regent Leland,
Regent Murfin.
On motion of Regent Beal, and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts degrees and diplomas were
voted as follows:BACHEIOR O ARTS
Elsie Amanda Abbott
Frederick Bauer
Harold Hudson Britton
*Anna Mai Crow
Bernard Fewell Magruder
Oscar Stephen WAood
BACHELOR OI' SCIENCcE
Joseph Rubins


*With Distinction




66


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1920


BACHELOR OF SCIINCE
(In Chemistry)
Stuart Johnson Colvin
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE
(In Medicine)
Iouis Joseph Gariepy
TEACHER'S DIPLOMA
Elsie Amanda A.bbott
Harold Hudson Britton
Emma Lyall Drummond
Oscar Stephen Wood
On motion of Regent Gore, the President was requested to communicate to Judge Claudius B. Grant the thanks
of the Board for his gift to the Law Library of the original
brief tiled by former Governor Alpheus Phelps in the case
of The People vs. The Regents of the University of Michigan many years ago.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote except where otherwise expressly stated.
The Board adjourned to the date of the next regular
meeting, Friday, December 3, I920, at 9:30 A. TM.
SHIRIILY W. SMITH, Secretary.




DECEMBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, DECEMBER 3, 1920 
The Board met in the Regents' Room at 9:37 A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Sawyer,
Regent Clements, Regent Hanchett, Regent Murfin. and
Superintendent Johnson.    Absent, Regent Beal, who later
took his seat, Regent Hubbard, and Regent Gore.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the minutes of the meetings of October I and November 3 were approved as submitted to the members in proof with        certain  specified
changes.
On motion of Regent Clements, it was voted to approve
the actions of the Executive Committee as evidenced by
the following minutes of that Committee's meetings: —
November 6, 1920
Present, the entire Committee.
An additional sum of $350 was allowed the Chemical
Laboratory, Administration Department, for additional dispensing assistants to relieve the great congestion and consequent waste of time at the dispensing stand.
The sum of $2400 was allowed to provide an additional
instructor in Political Science to take care of an increase of
one hundred and forty students in the first course in American Government, including quiz sections.
November 9, 1920
Present, the entire Committee with Regent Clements in
conference.
The President was authorized to secure a speaker for
an address before the University body on December 7, in
celebration of the Tercentenary Anniversary of the Landing
of the Pilgrims. An honorarium of $Ioo plus sufficient to
cover the traveling expenses of the speaker was authorized.
Professor Kelsey was requested to secure a meeting
between representatives of the Freer estate and attorneys
of the Regents to determine if possible the proper construc



68


DECEMBER MIIEETING, 1920


tion of the will of the late Charles L. Freer relating to the
bequest to the University (see page 65).
The President and Secretary were authorized to secure
adequate stenographic services in order to keep their correspondence up to date.
Authorization was given for engaging the service of a
Press Clipping Bureau to furnish the President with clippings from Michigan newspaper editorials relating to the
University.
Such papers as were submitted in support of all the
above actions are filed with the minutes.
SHIRItY WS. SMITH, Secretary
There followed a discussion of the creation of certain
new schools and colleges in the University, taking the place
of departments as now organized (see page 6i).
Regent Beal entered during the discussion.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That the question of the creation of a separate
school or college of Architecture be referred back to the
Committee on Educational Policies for further consideration
and report at the January meeting of the Board.
The President on behalf of the Committee on Educational Policies reported upon the establishment of a School
of Education. On motion of Regent Murfin, the following
resolution was adopted:Resolved. That the Regents are inclined to approve the
policy of establishing a School of Education and that they
again refer the question to the Committee on Educational
Policies, with a request to consider and present definite'plans
for the establishment and operation of such a school and
to report the same for the further consideration of the
Board.
On motion of Regent Sawyer. the Board declared a
policy with respect to a certain bequest should it be tendered.
Regent Hanchett and Regent Murfin, respectively, made
informal reports concerning matters before the committees
on Promotion of Research and on Student Welfare.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1920


69


Regent Beal, as geheral Chairman of the Committee on
the Educational Conference and Inauguration, filed a list
of the persons who had rendered service in the planning
or carrying out of the plans of the event, and on motion
of Regent Beal the Board expressed its thanks to the following for their cooperation and help:General Committee: Dean V. C. Vaughan, Dean M. E.
Cooley, Dean H. M. Bates, Dean J. R. Effinger, Paul
Buckley, Secretary.
Executive Committee: E. H. Kraus, Chairman, S. VW.
Smith, O. L. Buhr, J. R. Effinger.
Hospitality Committee: W. P. Lombard, Chairman, \Wilfred B. Shaw, Charles T. Andrews (who acted as Dr.
Lombard's secretary).
Transportation  Committee and   sub-committees thereof:
Hugo P. Thieme, Chairman.     Train Service: H. J.
Goulding, Edward Mathieu, H-. S. Mlallory, John Bradshaw, Fred Wahr, M. C. Wier. Baggage Service: Peter
Field, Peter Okkelberg. Automobile Service: L. A.
Hopkins.   Auto-drives: W. B. Ford.     Information
Service: C. P. Wagner. Auto Train Service: William
A. Frayer, Hugh Brodie, I. D. Scott. Other members
of the committee also worked on this service. Visiting
University: J. C. Hildner. Students aided. Mechanician and General Repairs: H. C. Carver.
Reception and Banquet Committee (this committee also
looked after providing lunches and dinners at the
Union): Evans Holbrook, Chairman, A. E. R. Boak,
J. R. Hayden, H. A. Kenyon, A. O. Lee, U. B. Phillips,
Ren6 Talamon, M. P. Tilley.
Publicity and Printing Committee: J. R. Brumnm, Chairman.
Music Committee:    A. A. Stanley, Chairman; William
Wheeler, Earl V. Moore.   (Mr. Julius Sturn and Mr.
Henry Cyphers of the Detroit Symphony Orchestra
assisted for the banquet.)
Alumni Associations Committee: W. B. Shaw, Chairman.
Decorations Committee: Emil Lorch, Chairman.
Academic Procession: L. 'IM. Gram, Chairman; W. H. Butts,
J. H. Cissel, E. L. Eriksen, C. 0. Wisler, J. H. Bateman,
C. E. Wilson, H. C. Sadler, G. L. Alt, R. W. Elliott,
G. A. May.




70


DECEMBER MEETING, 1920


Platform Arrangements Committee: Chas. W. Cook, Chairman; W. H. Hunt, H. H. Bartlett.
Committee on Ushers: Julius C. Palmer, Acting Chairman.
Miscellaneous: W. C. Hollands, printing; Otto Hans, printing; E. C. Pardon, Superintendent Buildings and
Grounds; Thomas O'Brien, Chief of Police; O. E. Roszel, Storekeeper; A. E. McCall, Head Janitor.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That it is the sense of the Regents that full
time chairs should be established for each of the clinical
services of the University Hospital, as soon as the new
Hospital building is completed and occupied.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board passed a
vote of thanks to Judge Claudius 13. Grant for his gift to
the Library of an autograph poem      written by President
Tappan, dated October 8, 1873.
The President filed a letter from the Houghton County
Medical Society expressing appreciation of the clinics held
in Houghton County by Professors Cabot, Peterson, Van
Zwaluwenburg, and Newburgh.
The Secretary filed a letter from  Cavanaugh & Burke
reporting argument in the Federal Court upon the demurrer
taken by the Counsel for the Board in the case of the SeldenBreck Construction Company against the Regents (see preceding volume, page 949).
The   Secretary  reported   the  following  resignations,
appointments, and other changes in the University staff, as
authorized by the President:RESIGNATIONS AND DECLINATIONS
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Physics
M. H. Buell, Assistant at $600, resigned August 31, 1920.
Victor Legg, Assistant at $600, resigned August 31, I920.
COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
Electrical
Marion C. Miller, Clerk and Stenographer at $960,
resigned October 31, 1920.




DECEMBER MEETING, I920                         71
MEDICAL SCHOOL
Adiministrationr
Amy Scutt, Assistant Secretary at $I440, resigned October 31, 1920.
Roentgenology
John A. Herring, Instructor at $I500, resigned November I, I920.
GENERAL LIBRARY
Laura E. W. Benedict, Superintendent of the Reading
Room, at $2000, resigned September I, 1920.
Olive Sheldon, Assistant in the Catalogue Department,
at $o000, resigned October I, 1920.
APPOINTMENTS
(All for the academic year 1920-1921, unless otherwise
stated.)
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Physics
Thomas C. Anderson, Assistant, vice Victor Legg,
resigned, from October 15, $600.
Laurence E. Frost, Assistant, vice M. H. Buell, resigned,
from October 15, $6oo.
Public Speaeking
John C. Carey, Assistant, from October I, $300.
Rhetoric
O. K. Bouwsma, Assistant, vice Kenneth Kuhn, promoted, from November I, $250.
Marian H. Studley, Assistant, vice Carl G. Schmiedeskamp, promoted, from November I, $300.
Houghton W. Taylor, Teaching Assistant, vice Waldo
M. Abbott, promoted, from November I, $400.
COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURIE
Chemical
L. A. Pridgeon, Assistant, from October I, without pay.
Electrical
Charles E. Gilbert, Instrument-Room man, from November 4, $1200, twelve-month's basis.
Gladys  Spiegelberg, Clerk  and   Stenographer, vice
Marion  C. Miller, resigned, from   November 8, $Io8o,
twel ve-month's basis.




72            DECEMBER MEETING, 1920
Engineering Ml echanics
S. WV. Traylor, Student Assistant, from October I, $275.
MEDICAI, SCHOOL
Adminiistration
Carolyn M. Green, Assistant Secretary, vice Amy Scutt,
resigned, from November I, $1500 per year, twelve-month's
basis.
Pathology
Mabel Strong, half-time   Technical Assistant, from
November I, $500, twelve-minth's    basis.  (Transferred
from Teaching Assistant in Pathology, College of Dental
Surgery, at 45c per hour.)
Frances Tracey, full-timne Technical Assistant, from
November I, I92o, to February 28, I92I, $o000; half-time
Technical Assistant, from March I to June 30, I92I, $500;
twelve-month's basis.
Physiology
N. W. Bourne, Assistant, from October I, $400.
E. R. Elsinger, Assistant, from October I, $400.
J. E. Ludwick, Assistant, from October I, $400.
C. C. Mlills, Assistant, from October I, $400.
W. E. Muldoon, Assistant, from October I, $400.
William R. Torgerson, Assistant, from October I, $z4oo.
Roentgenology
Wayne Johnston, Instructor, vice John A. Herring,
resigned, from  November I, I920, $I500, twelve-month's
basis.
CHEMISTRY
Chemiical Laboratory
Alfred W. Schluchter, first Assistant to the Director,
from October I, $6oo.
General and Physical Chemistry
Ralph F. Cohn, Assistant, from November 9, $50.
GENERAL LIBRARY
Hildegard Dietz, Assistant in Catalogue Department,
vice E. Grace Holland, promoted, from November 15, $ieoo,
twelve-month's basis.
Margaret Inglis Smith, Superintendent of the Reading
Room, vice Laura E. W. Benedict, resigned, from December
I, $2000 per year, twelve-month's basis.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1920                          73
Mary Steere, Assistant at the Corridor Desk, vic   E.
Grace Holland, transferred, from November I, $iooo, twelvemonth's basis.
Maabel Watts, half-time typist and multigrapher, from
October I, $500 per year, twelve-month's basis.
BARBOUR GYMNASIUM
Blanch Hull, half-time Secretary in Physical Education
for Women, from   October 26, $450.
UNIVERSITY EXT'ENSION SERVICE
Isador Lubin, two-hour course in Political Economy, in
Detroit, $300 and traveling expenses.
E. W. Peterson, Assistant in Bureau of Visual Instruction, $200.
FTLLOWSIIPS
Acme WiVhitc Lead and Color WTorks
Walter R. Hickler, from October I, $750.
Frederick Stearns and Company T'ellowship in, Pharmacy
Hans W. Vahlteich, from October I, $500.
National Aniline and Chemical Com.pany
Frederick F. Blicke, from October I, $750.
Wesley Minnis, from October I, $750.
Ric-wiL Fellozship
Charles A. Burton, from October I, $600.
University Fellowship
Raymond R. Haffner, from October I, $300.
PROMIOTIONS
COLLEGE Or LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THI ARTS
Rhetoric
Kenneth Kuhn, from Assistant at $250 to Instructor at
$I500, from November I.
Carl G. Schmiedeskamp, from Assistant at $300 to
Instructor at $I500, from October 27.
GENIERAL LIBRARY
E. Grace Holland, from Assistant in the Catalogue
Department at $Iooo to Order Clerk, vice Emily Hendricks,
promoted, $I200 per year, twelve-month's basis, from November I5.




74


DECEMBER MEETING, 1920


SALARY ADJUSTMENTS
COLLEGES O E]NGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
Engineering Mechanics
George E. Korten, Student Assistant, salary increased
from $I25 per year to $200.
GENERAL LIBRARY
Dorothy Ide, Typist and Multigrapher, from full-time
to half-time, salary reduced from $Iooo to $500, from October I.
TRANSFERS
CHEMISTRY
Ralph F. Cohn, half-time Dispensing Assistant at $250'
to November 8, made Assistant in General and Physical
Chemistry at $50.
GENERA, LIBRARY
E. Grace Holland, from Assistant at the Corridor Desk
at $o000 to Assistant in Catalogue Department, vice Olive
Sheldon, resigned, from November I, $oo000 per year, twelvemonth's basis. (See also page 73).
The following report was filed and on motion of Reg(
Clements was approved:The following report is made of actions by the President
and Secretary and proper dean or department head under
authority of the Regents' resolution of February 20 (see
page 840, preceding volume), and action of March 12 (see
page 873, preceding volume):Seventy-five ($75) dollars was added to the current
expense budget of the Department of Rhetoric, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts. This increase was necessary by reason of the increased number of students.
A full-time dispensing assistant was authorized for the
Chemical Laboratory with salary of $Ioo per month for seven
and a half months, total $750, payable from a balance of




DECEMBER MIEETING, 1920


75


$780, $280 of which is available through the death of Michael
Condon and $500 through the resignation of two half-time
undergraduate assistants.
Respectfully submitted.
M. L. BURTON, President
S. W. SMITH, Secretary
The Secretary filed the opinion of Cavanaugh & Burke
upon the construction of the will of the late Charles L.
Freer (see page 67). The opinion is as follows:MR. SHIRLEY W. SMI'TH, Secretary
Ann Arbor, Michigan
Dear Sir:In re Freer will, particularly interpretation of the
words "Oriental Art" in connection with Article 24 and
Article 12 of said will:
The proposition whether the publication of certain matters as submitted by Professor Kelsey may properly be considered within the scope of the will of Mr. Freer and particularly within the meaning of expenditures in connection
with "Oriental Art" has been considered by us.
At the first consideration, it might appear that the purpose Professor Kelsey has in mind is too broad to be reasonably included within the limitations of the will. Professor Kelsey is unquestionably an "expert" within the
meaning of Article 24 of the will. He has no hesitation in
giving as his opinion that the work contemplated is an aid
of research in connection with Oriental Art. The metamorphosis of Scriptural text to Oriental Art is accomplished,
in his judgment, by the "beauty of line" and the "charm of
illustration."
Upon further examination of the subject, however, and
particularly after an examination of the letter of Katherine
N. Rhoades, in the light of Article 12 of the will, we are of
the opinion that the cash dividends or income of the fund
may be used for the purpose indicated.
In any event, the concluding words of Miss Rhoades's
letter:
"I think Mr. Freer has worded paragraph twenty-four in very broad terms purposely, so that you
at the University will have the greater freedom in




76


DECEMBER MllEETING, I920


your choice of methods in achieving those results
for which he so ardently hoped,"
taken in connection with the language of the will:
"Said income shall be used primarily in aid of
research to be conducted by experts regarding the
art objects embraced in the collection of oriental
art transferred or bequeathed by me to the Smithsonian Institution; for the publication of the results
of such research, and for the preparation of text of
descriptive scientific catalogues of said collections
whenever the necessary information can be prepared."
will be sufficient justification for the action.
We are returning herewith collection of exhibits,
including copy of will, correspondence of Charles L. Freer,
Katherine N. Rhoades, and memorandum    of Professor
Kelsey.
Very respectfully,
CAVANAUGH & BURKE
Ann Arbor, Michigan,
November 29, 1920
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board accepted the
opinion and approved Professor Kelsey's plan for applying
income from this bequest to the expense of editing certain
Greek Biblical Manuscripts which are a part of the collection.
On motion of Regent Beal, the fund arising from this
bequest under the Freer Will was formally designated as
the Freer Research and Publication Fund (see pages 30
and 3I).
The 'Secretary reported the injury of Mr. John HI. Callender, night watchman, on the public street while returning home from his work on the morning of September 28,
1920.  On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board directed
that if this accident was not compensable under the Workmen's Compensation act, the hospital expenses of Mr. Callender would be assumed by the Regents.
The Board declined to consider the purchase of property at 826 Tappan Street.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the resignation of Dr. G..




DECEMBER MEETING, 920o


77


Irving Naylor as Assistant Professor of Genito-Urinary
Surgery and Registrar of the Homceopathic Medical School
was accepted, to date from October 31. In accordance with
the recommendation of Dean Hinsdale, the following distribution of Dr. Naylor's work was made:i. The work in Dermatology and in the medical phases
of Genito-Urinary Diseases was transferred to the Department of Internal M/edicine and Assistant Professor Garth
W. Boericke was placed in charge of the former and Assistant Professor J. L. Boyd of the latter, in each case without
further compensation.
2. The work of the surgical conditions of Genito-Urinary Diseases was assigned lo the Department of Surgery,
and the compensation of Professor Hugh M. Beebe was
increased by $800 for the period from November I to June
30 of the present academic year.
3. The salary of Professor Scott C. Runnels, Clinical
Director of the Homceopathic Hospital, was increased by
$400 for the period from November I, I920, to June 30, I92I.
4. To James K. Durling, Assistant in Surgery at $6oo,
the Board assigned the additional title of Secretary of the
Homceopathic Medical School, to be in charge of records,
schedules, announcements, etc., for the remainder of the
year, with additional compensation of $200 for the period
from December I to June 30.
On motion of Regent Clements, the title of Miss M.
Eunice Wead was changed from Assistant Curator of Rare
Books in the University Library to Curator of Rare Books.
On motion of Regent Murfin, Professor Frederick C.
Newcombe was given leave of absence for the second semester, with full pay, upon the condition that he provided a
substitute at his own expense satisfactory to the President
and Dean Effinger.
The President filed a letter from Director C. G. Parnall
with respect to housing conditions for nurses and help at
the University Hospital.
The President filed a communication, not requiring
action at this time, with respect to the deanship of the
College of Pharmacy.




78


DECEMBER MIEETING, I920


On motion of Regent Leland, the Board declined to
participate in the organization and expense of the movement known as "Associated Endowments."
The President presented the following communication:To the Honorable Board of Regents:
During the current year the War Department changed
the amount of commutation of uniforms to be paid to institutions maintaining units of the Reserve Officers Training
Corps and wearing special uniforms.  The amounts now
paid are:For  the  first  year.................... $36.00
For  the  second  year.......................  9.00
For the third year......................... 36.00
For  the  fourth  year.........................  9.00
Total..................................$90.00oo
The members of the R. O. T. C. at the University of
Michigan have designed an inconspicuous uniform  which
they desire to adopt and which will be acceptable to the
Military authorities. Its general specifications are:A straight-front sack coat of blue material, approximating the blue of the University colors; two breast and two
side pockets each covored by a flap; black composition buttons; button holes in both lapels; embroidered R. O. T. C.
shield in blue silk attached to left sleeve.
Ordinary trousers of same material as coat with no
insignia or special marking.
Cap similar in cut to "trench" or "overseas cap" with
piping, probably of University maize.
This suit is quoted at present at $33.50.
The wearing of this suit will be required only while the
student is actually undergoing Military instruction, at other
times its use will be optional with the student.
Authorization by the Board of Regents for the adoption
of such uniform by the R. O. T. C., effective at the opening
of the academic year 192I-I922, is therefore requested.
ROBERT ARTHUR,
November i8, I920.                  Major, C. A. C.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the following resolution
was adopted:



DECEMBER MEETING, 1920


79


Resolved, That the Regents formally approve the uniforms for members of the R. O. T. C. proposed in Professor
Arthur's communication to this Board under date of November I8.
The President filed the following report of work done
in the Highway Laboratory for the month of October:
Summary of Tests conducted during October, I920:Tests for Tests for Tests for
State   Counties, University MiscelDepart- Tozwnships,    of    lanCeos    Total
Mlaterial   ment   and Cities Michigan  Tests     Tests
Portland
Cement....63          22        26                2II
Sand, Gravel;
Crushed Stone 48        5                  5        58
Ledge Rock...I                                        I
Tar........... 3                                      3
Bituminous
Mixtures.... Io       13                           23
Cement Concrete........ 22       3                           25
Corrugated
Metal Pipe... 12                                   12
258       43        26        6       333
A communication was received from the Student Council with respect to the use of Hill Auditorium.     On motion
of Regent Murfin, the following resolution was adopted:
Resolved, That the use of Hill Auditorium   may be
granted to student organizations for lectures or addresses by
prominent men on topics of the day, under guarantee that
during such addresses there shall be no violation of recognized rules of hospitality, nor advocacy of the subversion
of government or of the state, and that such meetings shall
be in spirit, and in expression, worthy of this University.
Requests for such use of Hill Auditorium shall be addressed
to a committee consisting of the Regents Committee on Student Welfare including the President of the University ex




8o


DECEMBER MEETING, 1920


officio, and the President of the Student Council. Provided
that under no circumstances shall the building be used for
political speeches or purposes.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, thle Board declined to
change the allowance to pupil nurses in the Hospital Training Schools to a money compensation instead of compensation in materials.
Librarian Bishop communicated to the Regents that the
Trustees of the Tappan Presbyterian Association had presented to the University Library the Association's library
amounting to about six hundred volumes, largely made up
of the private libraries of two former Regents of the University, Reverend Doctor George Duffield, Regent from
1839 to I848, and Reverend George Duffield, Jr., Regent
from 1877 to I886. On motion of Regent Clements, the
Board accepted this gift with thanks.
On motion of Regent Murfin. the Regents expressed
thanks to the Hawkeye Pearl Button Company of Muscatine, Iowa, for its gift to the Department of Zoology, of
specimens of button mussels and of the stages of their
manufacture into buttons.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board voted the
honorary degree of Doctor of Laws, to be conferred at Commencement of 1921, with the usual condition that the candidate should be present at that time. In accordance with precedent the name of the proposed recipient is not printed until
the publication of the full list at Commencement time.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board authorized
the expenditure of not to exceed $1200 to provide a fireproof storehouse for combustible chemicals.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board approved the
policy involved in the following communication:To the Presidcnt and Regents of the University of 11ichigal:At a meeting of the University Senate held November
22, 1920, the following was adopted:Resolved, That the Senate approves the recommendation




DECEMBER M1EETING, 192P                     81
of the Dean of the Graduate School in regard to the reorganization of the Executive Board of the Graduate School,
and requests the Regents to adopt the same. Dean Lloyd
recommends that the number of appointees on the Board
be increased from seven to eight, that the term of office be
reduced from seven to foury years, and that after necessary
adjustments, two new appointments be made annually.
Respectfully submitted,
JosEPH L. MAR KLEY,
Secretary of University Senate
November 23, I920
An this point the Board took a recess for lunch.
AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at 2:20 P. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal,
Regent   Sawyer,   Regent    Mu -fin,  and  Superintendent
Johnson.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board approved the
plan of the Ann Arbor Art Association for two exhibits in
the Alumni Memorial Hall, presumably in February and
May, next.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board referred to
Regent Beal and the Secretary questions arising with respect
to the extension of Forest Hill Cemetery in the direction
of University property.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board approved the
continuance of Field Courses in Geology and Geography in
the summer of I92I, on the express condition that at least
twenty students shall enroll for such courses. The following conditions also attach:I. The courses are to begin early in July and continue
for six weeks with a maximum of eight hours of credit.
2. The fee for the courses is to be $40.
3. The budget adopted for the courses is as follows:Director Carl 0. Sater.....................$ 775
Instructor  George  MI. Ehlers.................  425




82          DECEMBER MEETING, I920
Assistant  R.  C. Hussey......................  200
Travelling  and  Excursion  Fund..............  275
Camp Fund....................... o00
Repairs..................................... 275
Storage  and  Equipment......................  50
$2100
On motion of Regent Leland, an appropriation of $Ioo
was authorized for the support of the American School of
Oriental Research in Jerusalem during the year I920-r921.
Regent Clements and Regent Hanchett took their seats.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board authorized the
Departments of Latin and Greek to extend an invitation
to the American Philological Association and the Archteological Institute of America to hold their annual joint
meeting for the year I92I in Ann Arbor, presumably during the last days of December. Should the invitation be
accepted, the expenditure of not to exceed  300o to provide
a suitable reception and other entertainment for the Associations was authorized.
On motion of Regent \Murfin, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Law School, the degree of
Juris Doctor was conferred upon Arthur Stevenson White,
Ph.B., Grove City College 1903, LL.B. I909 and A.M. 195.
On motion of Regent Beal and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate
School, degrees were voted as follows:MASTER OF ARTS
Jesse Earl Thornton, A.B., Albion College.
George Green Wright
IMASTER OF SCIEINCVE
Luis Viceus Bartual, M.D., University of Valencia.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board approved the
nomination of Professor Walter B. Ford as a member of
the Executive Board of the Graduate School, vice Professor
Alexander Ziwet, whose term has expired.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board added the sum
of $Iooo to the salary budget of Highway Short Course,




DECEMBER MEETING, 1920


83


to procure the services of an additional assistant professor
or other adequate assistance.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board declined to
authorize the beginning of work on Grapevine Point as a
site for the Biological Station pending action by the Legislature upon the request for an appropriation to cover this
work.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board approved the
budget for the Summer Session of 192I in the'sum of $I47,I54.63. The budget appears as Appendix A of the proceedings of this meeting.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board referred to
the President with power the suggestion of providing board
and lodging for delegates to the District Conference of the
Associated Cosmopolitan Clubs.
On motion of Regent Beal and in accordance with. the
recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, degrees were voted as follows: —
BACHEl, OR 01 ARTS
Charles Spencer Clark  *George Seletto
Donald Thomson Lester  Henry Calvert Simons, Jr
BACHELoOR O0 SCIENCE (IN MEDJCINE)
t Joseph I-Hume Taylor
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board appointed
Mr. Charles Dana Loomis Assistant Professor of Architecture with salary at the rate of $3000 per year for the
period from October 25, 1920, to June 30, I921. Funds
for this appointment are provided in the budget.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote.
On motion, the Board adjourned to the date of the next
regular meeting, Friday, January 7, 1921, at 9:30 A. M.
SIlRLtY WV. SMAITH, Secretary
* With Distinction.
l With High Distinction.




APPENDIX TO REGENTS' PROCEEDINGS OF DLCEMPER 3, 1920
BUDGET FOR THE SUMMER SESSION OF 1921
As APPROVED      C DECE~MBER 3, 1920 (See page 83.)
A. GENERAL FUNDS':
Increase or
1921         I920       Decrease
College of Literature, Science; and the Arts.$ 76,253.9I $ 64-793.32  -$II,460.59
Colleges of Engineering and Architecture.. 24,837.50       25,033.33  -     195.83
Medical School...........................      8,762.50    5,975.00  +   2,787.50
Law   School..............................   8,100.00    9,000.00  -     90o.00
College of Pharmacy......................,200.00     I,I00.00  +    I00.00
Biological Station.....................    9,490.00    8.o5.oo   +   1,475.00
Library Methods.........................       3,07500      2,600oo.oo     475.00
Embalming and' Sanitary Science..........       920.00     I,85.00   -     165.00
Public Health Nursing.................... 89.67 83.33         -    39
Administration...........................    5,72.00     4,875.00  +     85o.oo
General Expense.........................       7,899.05    4,785.00  -- 3,114.05
$147,154.63  $I28,544.98  +$I8,609.65
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Salary               Increase or
Astrollnomy-                              Hr 1s.  1921        1920       Decrease
Professor William   J. Hussey.........  32   $  450.00
Professor Ralph H. Curtiss........... 32        425.00
Asst. Prof. W. Carl Rufus............ 48       275.00
Assistant............................           40.00
Visitors'  Night......................         20.00
$ 1,210.00  $ 1,020.00  +$   190.00
BotainyProfessor Bradley MI. Davis.......... 64    $  850o.oo
Assoc. Prof. James B. Pollock........4   675.00
Assoc. Prof. Calvin H. Kauffman.....      64    675.00
Instructor Felix G. Gustafson......... 48       212.25
Assistants............................         200.00
$ 2,612.25  $ 2,310.00  +$   302.25
For Smith-Hughes Fund, see page -




86


DECEMBER MEETING, 1920


Chemistry- 
Assoc. Prof. David M. Lichty.......
Assoc. Prof. William G. Smeaton....
Assoc. Prof. Hobart H. Willard......
Asst. Prof. Chester S. Schoepfle.......
Instructor Harry N. Cole.............
Instructor Alfred Ferguson..........
Instructor J. Hallett Hodges..........
Instructor Harold R. Snow...........
Teaching Asst. J. Walter Britton......
Teaching Asst. John F. Ross..........
8   A ssistants.........................


Hrs.
64
64
64
96
96
96
96
96


Salary
192I
$ 675.00
675.00
675.00
550.00
425.00
425.00
425.00
425.00
200.00
200.00
480.00
$ 5,155.00
$8;,o.oo
$ 850.00
675.00
675.00
675.00
5o.oo
550.00
366.67
425.00
425.00
283.33
283.33
$ 5,208.33


Increase cr
T920      Decrease
$ 4,780.00  +$   375.oo
$ 4,1TO.oo  +$ 1,I08.33


EconomicsProfessor I. Leo Sharfman...........64
Assoc. Prof. William A. Paton.......64
Assoc. Prof. Clare E. Griffin.......... 64
Assoc. Prof. Arthur E. Wood........64
Asst. Prof. Herbert N. Schmitt.......96
Asst. Prof. Wilbur P. Calhoun.......64
Instructor Roy H. Holmes...........96
Instructor James P. Adams...........96
Instructor VWm. F. Hauhart..........64
Instructor Isador Lubin..............64
*EducationProfessor Allen S. Whitney..........64
Professor Calvin O. Davis............64
Professor Charles S. Berry...........64
Professor Guy MA. Whipple...........64
Professor Stuart A. Courtis......... 64
Professor Paul C. Packer............64
Professor Ernest Burnham..........32
Professor Jay W. Sexton.............64
Professor...............64
Professor —..............64
Assoc. Prof. George L. Jackson......64
A ssistants...........................


$  900.00
850.00
850.00
900.oo
900o00
900.oo
450.00
900.00
900.00
900.00
675.00
100.00


$ 9,425.00
* See appendix for appointments on the Smith-Hughes Fund.


$ 6,200.00 +$ 3,225.00




DECEMBER MEETING, 1920                                   87
Salary               Increase or
English-                                  Hrs.    1921        1920       Decrease
Professor Louis A. Strauss........... 64     $  850.00oo
Professor Morris P. Tilley.......... 64        85o.oo
Assoc. Prof. Samuel Moore........... 64        675.oo
Asst. Prof. Wilber R. Humphreys..... 4.366.6
Asst. Prof. Solomon F. Gingerich..... 96        550.00
Instructor Wim. O. Raymond......... 96         425.00
Instructor John R. Moore............ 64        283.33
$ 4,000.00  $ 3,600.00  +$   4o.oo0
Fiize ArLtsProfessor Herbert R. Cross.......... 64      $  850.oo
Assistants...........................           I30.00
$   980.00  $ I,096.67  -$    iT6.67
Geology and GeographyProfessor.............. 64   $  85.00
Assoc. Prof. I. D. Scott.............. 64       675.00
Assistant............................           75.00
Excursion Fund.....................             I25.00
$,725.00oo  $ 1,150.00  $  57500oo
Professor Max Winkler............. 64       $  850.oo
Professor Tobias J. Diekhoff......... 64        850.oo
Assoc. Prof. Jonathan A. Hildner.... 64        675.00
$ 2,375.00  $ 2,200.00  +$   175.00
GreekProfessor Campbell Bonner........... 64      $  90o.00
Asst. Prof. Frank E. Robbins.........64        366.67
$ 1,266.67  $  900.00  +$    366.67
HistoryProfessor Claude H. Van Tyne....... 64      $  900.00
Professor Earl W. Dow.............. 32          425.00
Professor Ulrich B. Phillips.......... 64      850.oo
Professor Arthur L. Cross...........    32      42.00oo
Professor Arthur E. Boak............ 64         850.oo
Assoc. Prof. William   A. Frayer...... 64       675.00
Instructor Oie W. Stephenson........ 64         283.33
$ 4,408.33  $ 3,800.00  +$   608.33




88


DECEMBER MEETINTG, 1920


Landscape Design — 
Professor Aubrey Tealdi.............
Assistant...........................


Salary
Hrs.    192I
64  $   850.00
40.00
S Rnono nn


Increase or
1920       Decrease:


$   830.00  -$


6o.oo


Latin —
Professor Henry A. Sanders......... 64    $
Professor Clarence L. Meader........ 64
Assoc. Prof. Albert R. Crittende.... 64
Instructor...........................  64
Mathematics
Professor Wooster W. Beman......... 64    $
Professor James W. Glover........... 64
Professor Walter B. Ford............ 64
Professor Louis C. Karpinski......... 64
Assoc. Prof. John W. Bradshaw...... 64
Asst. Prof. Harry C. Carver.........96
Asst. Prof. Carl J. Coe....:.......... 96
Min eralogyAsst. Prof. Albert B. Peck............ 96$
Instructor.......................... 48
A ssistant............................
Philosophy and Psychology ---
Professor Robert M. Wenley......... 64     $
Professor Walter B. Pillsbury........ 32
Professor John F. Shepard........... 32
Assoc. Prof. Roy W. Sellars.......... 64
Assoc. Prof. Henry F. Adams........ 64
Instructor Charles H. Griffitts........ 96
Assistant William  M\. Trap........... 64
$
Physical Triaining —
Asst. Prof. George A. May...........
Instructor Marion 0. Wood..........
A ssistant...........................


900.00
85.o00
675.00
283.33
2,708.33
900.00
900.00
850.00
85o.oo
850.00
675.00
550.00
5,275.00
350.00
212.50
50.00
812.50
900.00
450.00
425.00
675.00
675.00
4252.o
Io.0oo
3,700.00
55o000
425.00
50.00


$ 2,o66.66 +$     64,1.67
$ 4,233.33 +$ I,041.67
$  800.00 +$-    I2.50
$ 3,350.00 +$   350.00


$ I,025.00 $ 1,050.00 -$    2-.O 0




DECEMBER MEETING, 1920


89


Salary               Increase or
Hrs.     I92I       1920       Decrease
PhysicsProfessor Harrison LI. Randall....... 64    $   80o.oo
Professor Neil H. Williams......... 64         850.00
Assoc. Prof. Arthur W. Smith........6           6 75.00
Asst. Prof. Daniel R. Rich........... 96       550.00
Asst. Prof. William  W. Sleator....... 96       550.00
Asst. Prof. George A. Lindsay........ 96        550.00
Instructor Carlton V. Kent............ 96      425.00
Instructor Ralph A. Sawyer.......... 64        28333
Instructor Harold -I. Sheldon........ 64        283.33
Instructor Charles S. Fazel........... 96       425.00
Instructor Wilfred N. St. Peter...... 96        425.00
Instructor Arthur L. Becker..........  t       212.50
Instructor Bethel J. Babbitt.......... 48      212.50
Instructor James M. Cork............ 48        212.50
$ 6,504.I6  $ 6,400.00  +$   104.I6
Political Science —
Professor Jesse S. Reeves............ 64    $   900.00
Professor Robert T. Crane........... 64.       85o.oo
$ 1,750-00 o 1,400.00  -$   350.co
Public SpeakingAssoc. Prof. Richard D. T. Hollister.. 64   $   675.00
Asst. Prof. Ray K. Immel............    96      550.oo
Instructor George B. Wilner.......... 96        425.00
Assistants...........................         300.00
$ 1,95.00  $ 1,500.00  -   -$ 450.00(
RhetoricProfessor Thomas E. Rankin......... 64      $  850.oo
Assoc. Prof. John L. Brumm......... 64        675.00
Asst. Prof. Herbert S. Mallory....... 64       366.67
Asst. Prof. Roy W. Cowden.......... 96          550.00
Instructor Harold P. Scott........... 96      425.00
Instructor Edward S. Everett......... 96       425.00
A ssistants...........................        200.00
$ 3,491.67 $ 2,833.33  +$   658.34




90


DECEMBER MEETING, 1920


Salary
Hrs.     1921


Increase or
Decrease


1920


Romiance Languagesa. French and ItalianProfessor Arthur G. Canfield...... 64
Professor Hugo P. Thieme........ 64
Asst. Prof. Rene Talamon........ 96
Asst. Prof. William  McLaughlin.. 96
Asst. Prof. Philip E. Bursley....96
Asst. Prof. -        —.........     64
Instructor Jean Cloppett........... 96
Instructor     -........... 96
b. SpanishProfessor Charles P. Wagner...... 64
Asst. Prof...........: 96
Instructor Julio del Toro.......... 96
Instructor Gustave Michaud......96
Instructor Norman Willey........ 96
ZoologyProfessor Jacob E. Reighard........ 64
Assoc. Prof. A. Franklin Shull........ 64
Instructor Arthur Chickering........ 96
A ssistants...........................
TOTALS..........................


$  900.00
850.00
55o.00
550.00
550.00
366.67
425.00
425.00
$ 4,616.67
$  850.00
550.00
425.00
425.00
425.00
$ 2,675.00
$  850.00
675.00
425.00
540.00
$ 2,490.00
$76,253.9I


$ 4,233.33 +$   383.34
$ 2,500.00 +-$  I75.00


$ 2,440.00 +$     5o.00
$64,793.32 +$II,460.59


COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE


ArchitectureProfessor J. J. Albert Rousseau.......
Lecturer Emma Grattan..............
Assistant Viola Ludwig...............
Instructor.............


Salary               Increase or
Hrs.    1921        1920      Decrease
~ 64  $  850.00
675.00
~ 325.00
96      425.00
$ 2,275.00  $ 2,000.00  -$  275.00




DECEMBER MEETING, 1920                                   91
Salary              Increase or
Hrs.     1921       1920      Decrease
Chemical EngineeringProfessor -.............. 64                $   900.00
Asst Prof............... 96        550.00
Instructor            -.............96         425.00
2 Assistants.........................          300.00
$ 2,175.00  $ 1,900.00  — $  275.00
Civil EngineeringInstructor Glenn L. Alt............... 96   $   425.00    I,oo00.00  -$  675.oo
DrawingAssoc. Prof. Herbert J. Goulding...... 64  $   675.oo
Asst. Prof. Frank R. Finch........... 96        550.00
$ 1,225.00  $ i,6oo.oo  -$  375.00
Electrical EngineeringProfessor John 'C. Parker............ 64   $  900.00
Professor Alfred H. Lovell........... 64       85o.oo
Professor Joseph H. Cannon......... 64         850.00
Instructor.............. 96      425.oc
Instructor.............. 96      425.00oo
Instructor.............. 96      425.00
$ 3,875.00  $ 3,400.00  +$  475.oo0
En gineering MechanicsProfessor............... 64  $   900.o0
Assoc. Prof. John A. Van den Broek.. 64         675.00
Asst. Prof...96                    550.00
Asst. Prof................96       550.oo
$ 2,675.00  $ 2,300.00  +$  375.oo0
EnglishAsst. Prof. Francis L. Schneider...... 96   $   550.oo  $ 0 0.00 -$   250.00
FrelchAssoc. Prof. William H. Waite....... 64     $  675.00
Asst. Prof. Herbert A. Kenyon....... 96        550.oo
$ 1,225.00  $  766.67  +$   458.33




92


DECEMBER MEETING, I920


MiathemitaticsProfessor Peter Field...............
Professor Theodore Running.........
Asst. Prof. Louis A. Hopkins........
Asst. Prof. Vincent C. Poor..........
Asst. Prof. Louis J. Rouse...........
Asst. Prof. Alfred L. Nelson.........
Instructor     ---..............
Assistant............................


HFrs.
64
64
96
96
96
96
96


Salary
1921
$  850.00
850.oo
550.00
550.00
550.00
55o.oe
550.00
425.00
75.00
$ 4,400.00


Increase or
1920      Decrease
$ 3,200.00  +$ 1,200.00


Mechanical EngineeringProfessor John E. Emswiler......... 48
Professor Claude E. Wilson.......... 64
Professor Ransom F. Hawley......... 64
Asst. Prof. Allen F. Sherzer.......... 96
Instructor Harry J. Watson.......... 96
A ssistants...........................
Shop WTorkChanged to twelve-months' basis....
SurveyingProfessor Clarence T. Johnston.......
Asst. Prof. Harry Bouchard.......... 96
Asst. Prof. —............. 96
A ssistants...........................
TOTALS...........................


$   637.50
850.oo
85o.00
550.00
425.00
200.00
$ 3,512.50  $ 3,700.00  -$   187.50........ $ I,866.66  -$ I,866.66


$ 1,000.00
550.00
550.00
400.00
$ 2,500.00
$24,837.50


$ 2,400.00
$25,033.33


-+$     100.00
-$    I95.83


MEDICAL SCHOOI,
Salary
Anatomy (Eight Weeks)-                    Hrs.    1921
Professor G. Carl Huber............. 60     $  9oo.00
Professor Rollo E. McCotter......... 60         850.00
Asst. Prof. Orlow   C. Snyder......... 90       550.00
Asst. Prof. Stacey R. Guild........... 90       550.oo
Instructor Elizabeth Thompson....... 90         425.00
$ 3,275.00


Increase or
I920       Decrease


$ I,575.oo00   $ 1,700.00




DECEMBER MEETING, 1920                                    93
Salary               Increase or
HIrs     192I        1920      Decrease
BacteriologyAsst. Prof. --............... 90  $  41250
Instructor...........................   90      3t-75
Assistant............................           I50,00
$   881.25  $  825.00  +$     56.25
MedicileAsst. Prof...............90                 $   412.50
Asst. Prof................ 90      42.50
$   825.00  $  675.o00  +$   150.00
ObstetricsInstructor ------.............. 90 $ 38.75
Instructor..............  9      3I8.75
$   637.50  $  300.00  +$    337.50
PharmacologyAsst. Prof. Erwin E. Nelson.......... 90    $   412.50
Assistant --        -...............         I50.00
$   562.50  $  375.00  +$    187.50
Physiological ChemistryInstructor -.............. 90   $   318.75
Assistant --...............         150.00
$   468.75  $  400.00  +$     68.75
PhysiologyAsst. Prof. Otis M. Cope............. 90    $   412.50
Assistant —. —...............        100.00
Assistant --...............         I00.00
$   612.50  $  475.00  +$    I37.50
SurgeryAsst. Prof. M:ax Peet................ go. 9     4    0 4 5  $  375.00  +$  37.50
PathologyProfessor Aldred S. Warthin......... 6o      $   675.00
Asst. Prof. Carl V. Weller............ 90       412.50
$ I,087.50  $  975.00  +$    II2.50
TOTALS...........................       $ 8,762.50  $ 5,975.o00  +$ 2;787.50




94


DECEMBER MEETING, 1920


LAW SCHOOL


Hrs.
Professor Victor H. Lane.............. 64  $
Professor Horace L. Wilgus........... 64
Professor Edwin C. Goddard........... 64
Professor John B. Waite.............. 48
Professor Edgar N. Durfee............. 48


Salary
I92I
900.00
900.00
900.00
675.00
675.00


Professor 
Professor 
Professor
Professor 
Professor 
C
Asst. Prof. Clifford C. GI
Asst. Prof. Charles H. St..............  8o   I,I25.00..............   8o  1,25.00..............  64    90o.oo..............  32    450.00.............. 32     450.00
$ 8,Ioo.oo
OLLEGE OF PHARMACY
lover.......... 96  $  550.00:ocking........ 96     550.00


Increase or
1920      Decrease
$ 9,000.00 -$    900oo.c
$ I,100.00  +$   100.00


A ssistants.............................
BIOLOGICAL
Director George R. LaRue..............
Professor Frank Smith.................
Asst. Prof. Paul S. Welch..............
Asst. Prof. Frank C. Gates.............
Asst. Prof. George E. Nichols..........
Asst. Prof. John H. Ehlers.............
Asst.  Prof.................
Three Assistants......................
Custodian..............................
Clerical  Assistance.....................
Mrs. Frank C. Gates, Dean of Women...
Scientific  Equipment...................
B ooks.................................
Printing..............................
L abor.................................
Repairs and Current Expense...........
Travelling Expenses...................
General Equipment....................


I00.00
$ 1,200.00
STATION
$  800.00
850.00
550.00
550.00
550.00
550.00
550.oo
450.00
300.00
500.00
100.00
950.00
85o.oo
40.00
850.00
1,150.00
400.00
300.00
$ 9,490.00


$ 8,oi5.0oo:$ 1,475.00




DECEMBER MEETING, I920


95


LIBRARY METHODS
Salary
Hrs.     I92I
Director William  W. Bishop...........  $  oo0oo
Assoc. Prof..                                      600.00
Assoc. Prof........               600.00
Instructor Fredericka Gillette..........      22.00
Instructor William  C. Hollands.........          223.00
Instructor Edith Thomas..............'.           225.00
Two   Instructors.......................         300.00
$ 3,075.00


Increase or
T92C      Decrease
$ 2,600.00  +$  475.00


EMBALMING AND SANITARY SCIENCE


Instructor -            (Cheistry)....
Instructor             (Bacteriology and
Sanitary Science)...............
Instructor              (Anatomy).....
Asst. Prof. Carl V. Weller (Autopsy
Technique)..........................
Instructor George D. Farley (Embalming),Supplies...............................


$  200.00
200.00
200.00
100.00
200.00
20.00
$ 920.00


$,o85.00o  -$  I65.00


PUBLIC HEALTH NURSING
Director Barbara H. Bartlett.......... Annual salary
Professor                (Hygiene   and
Sanitation)..........................     $  337.50
Professor              (Education).....         337.50
Instructor              (Psychology)...          41..67.Instructor Arnold L. Jacoby (Psychiatry)         75.00
$  89.67


$ 1,283.33  -$    391.66


ADMINISTRATION
Professor Edward H. Kraus, Dean.....         $ 2,250.00
Professor Thomas E. Rankin, Secretary.           750.00:Dean of Women........................          500.0o
Professor John R. Effinger, Dean, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts...        300.00
-Professor Arthur G. Hall, Registrar, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts      300.00




96


DECEMBER MEETING, 1920


Salary
Hrs.     I92I


1920      Increase


Committee, Colleges of Engineering and
Architecture........................
Asst. Prof. Louis A. Hopkins, Secretary,
Colleges of 'Engineering and Architecture.................................
Professor Charles W. Edmunds, Assistant Dean, Medical School.............
Professor Evans Holbrook, Secretary,
Law School..........................
Professor Alfred H. Lloyd, Dean, Graduate  School..........................
Assistant in Law Library...............


300.00
100.00
300.00


300oo.
300.00
125.00


$ 5,725.00
GENERAL EXPENSE


I,000o Complete Announcements........
5,000 Announcements, Embalming     and
Sanitary  Science.....................
i0,000 Announcements, Law............
60,ooo Announcements, Abridged.......
Non-resident Lectures.................
Foreign  Lecturer.....................
Stenographic and Clerical Help.........
Lecture  Attendant.....................
Stationery and Printing.................
P ostage................................
R eception..............................
Office and Equipnment...................
Incidentals.............................


$ 1,200.00


50.00
150.00
1,400.00
400.00
6oo.oc
2,500.00
50.00
5c.oo
350.00
200.00
I00.00
75o.oo
149.05
$ 7,899.05


$ 4,875-00 +$ 85o.oo
$ 4,785.00 +-$ 3, II4.05


APPENDIX
B. SMITH-HUGHFtS FUND
Industrial Education
Professor George E. Myers.............       $   900.00
Assoc. Prof. Cleo Murtland............Annual Salary
Asst. Prof. E. Lewis Hayes............            500.00
Asst. Prof. Frank R. Kepler............          250.00
$ I,650.oo


$ I,55o.oo00        Ioo.oo




JANUARY MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, }
ANN ARBOR, JANUARY 7, 1921.
The Board met in the Regents' Room at 9:35 A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Gore, and Regent
Hanchett. Absent, Regent Sawyer, who later took his seat,
Regent Murfin and Superintendent Johnson.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the meeting of December 3 were approved as submitted to the members in proof with certain specified changes.
On motion of Regent Clements, it was voted to approve
the action of the Executive Committee as evidenced by the
following minutes of that Committee's meeting.
December I, I920
Present, the entire Committee.
The salary of Miss Marguerite Chapin, Assistant to
the Dean of Women, was increased from $95 per month
to $125 per month from November I, I920, and continuing
to June 30, 1921.
Such papers as were submitted in support of the above
action are filed with the minutes.
On motion of Regent Gore, it was voted to approve
actions of a special informal conference of the Regents,
adopting the same as the formal action of the Board, in
accordance with the following report:December I6, I920
Present, the President, Regent Sawyer, Regent Beal,
Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Murfin, Regent
Hanchett, Regent Leland, and Superintendent Johnson.
Absent, Regent Gore.
After the discussion of several features of the legislative program, it was the sense of the Board that the program should be adhered to in all of its features.




98


JANUARY MEETING, 1921


The Board referred to the President and Secretary the
question  of heating  University  buildings  during  the
approaching holiday recess, with directions to follow the
heat conservation plan of previous years with only such
exceptions as seemed absolutely necessary.
The Secretary presented a letter from Doctor Bryant
Walker of Detroit, as executor of the estate of the late
Genevieve S. Hinsdale, communicating the fact that by the
terms of her will an undivided one-fourth of the residuary
estate was left to the University in the following words:To the University of Michigan, one share, the
net income only of which shall be expended under
the President or the Board of Regents of such University, in one or m)ore scholarships to be named
after my father, Edwin C. Hinsdale.
Doctor Walker stated that although litigation was pending with respect to the estate, he believed there was no
question that the legacy would be as much as $20,000. In
accordance with the request of Doctor Walker the President and Secretary were authorized to sign a formal acceptance of the legacy.
Regent Leland's traveling expense vouchers for $I33.78
covering the period from January 8 to November 9, I920,
inclusive, were approved.
The:President presented a letter from Mir. Thomas S.
Evans, Executive Secretary of the Students' Christian Association, requesting permission of the Regents to approach
the alumni once a year for contributions toward the religious
work of the Students' Christian Association.  On motion
of Regent Murfin, it was the sense of the meeting that there
was no reason to change the present policy as adopted in
I915, which included permission to solicit for a building fund
for a period ending August 20, 1915, and from time to time
as might le desired by the organization for current expenses
(see Regents' Proceedings, I914-I917, pages 80, 97, I73, and
224. Also 395).
A luncheon to representatives of the five junior colleges of the state was authorized on the occasion of their
meeting in Ann Arbor for a conference with University
officials relative to curriculum and credit allowances.
Professor J. L. Brumm was authorized to attend a meeting of the American Association of Teachers of Journalism
and the American Association of College News Bureaus,
in St. Louis, Missouri, December 28-30, and the conference




JANLz4FRY M/EETING, 1921


99


of representatives of Schools and Departments of Journalism at the University of Missouri immediately after the St.
Louis meeting, with total traveling expenses not in excess
of $I00.
It was voted to be the sense of the members present that
the reading room in Alumni Memorial Hall should be discontinued after December 31, I920.
It was further determined to be the sense of the members present that an invitation to address the University
should not at this time be sent to Doctor Rabinandrath
Tagore.
A discussion ensued, with no action, of the desirability
of establishing a special fellowship or non-teaching professorship, of a temporary nature, for the purpose of bringing
into the University community for considerable periods,
from time to time, leading representatives of the literary,
dramatic, musical, or other fine arts. It was assumed that
a gift which would make it possible to establish such a
fellowship would be very desirable and acceptable.
All papers filed are attached to the original of this report.
The Committee on Educational Policies reported that a
hearing had been held with representative citizens of the
state in regard to the establishment of a school for the training of social and civic workers. Upon the recommendation
of the Committee, and on motion of Regent Leland, the following resolution was adopted:Resolved, That the President in cooperation with the
Deans and other persons concerned make a careful study
of the needs for the training of social workers in the state
of Michigan, and the best methods by which the University
could undertake to meet those needs, and that they report
their conclusions to the Regents' Committee on Educational
Policies.
The Committee on Educational Policies reported that it
had given very careful consideration to the question referred
to it at the last meeting concerning the establishment of a
separate College of Architecture (see page 68). Upon the
recommendation of the Committee the following resolution
was approved:Resolved, That the Committee on Educational Policies
be requested to continue its study of the problem of a sep



I00


JANUARY MEETING, 1921


arate College of Architecture, particularly in its relation —
ship t6 the Fine Arts, including the present courses in Art,
Landscape Design, and Music, and at the proper time to
report its findings to the Board of Regents.
On motion of Regent Leland, traveling expenses were
approved as follows:Of Regent Sawyer from January 7 to December 9 T920,
inclusive, $I73.54.
Of Regent Hubbard fron January 4 to December 17,
I92o, inclusive, $607.49.
The Board requested Regent Leland as Chairman of the
Finance Committee to invest $40,000 of trust funds in
United States Liberty Bonds.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board approved the
traveling expenses of Regent Clements in the sum of $326.70
during the period of March o0 to December IS, 1920, inclusive.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board requested
the Executive Committee to investigate and report upon the
question of finding homes for children born in the hospitals
of the University for whom homes must be provided by
others than their natural guardians.
Regent Sawyer took his seat.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, it was voted that the
regular monthly meeting day of the Board, after the month
of February next, should be transferred from the first Friday of the month to the last Friday of the month. The
meeting of March next is therefore to be held on March 25.
The Secretary called attention to the fact that at the
meeting of August, I9I9 (see page 646, preceding volume)
the Board had authorized the temporary installation of the
refrigerating plant for the new University Hospital in the
present University Hospital. The Secretary reported the
cost of this installation as about $II50. On motion of Regent Beal, this sum was added to the budget.
The Secretary reported that for the entertainment of
delegates to the District Conference of the Associated Cosmopolitan Clubs (see page 83) expenses of approximately
$335 for meals and lodgings had been authorized. On motion
of Regent Leland this action was approved and the sum
named was added to the budget.




JANUA4RY MEETING, 1z21


I01


The Secretary reported the request of Perkins, Fellows,
and Hamilton that a formal contract be signed with them as
architects for the proposed Model High School (see page
894, preceding volume). On motion of Regent Clements,
the Board voted that the entire question of the Model High
School should be laid upon the table for the present.
Upon motion of Regent Leland, the Board ratified the
following proposed agreement between the Board of Education of the City of Ann Arbor and the Regents (see pages
54-3 and 888, Regents' Proceedings of I9I1-I914):PROPOSAL FOR AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE
BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR AND THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
In consideration of the privileges mutually granted
herein and of those which have arisen from a' former contract of similar nature, the Board of Education of the City
of Ann Arbor and the Regents of the University of Michigan hereby enter into the following agreement to continue
for a period of five years from and after the date of the
ratification thereof:First: That, upon the joint nomination of the Superintendent of City Schools and the President of the University, the Board of Education of the City of Ann Arbor may
designate not to exceed sixteen secondary or high school
teachers and sixteen elementary or graded school teachers
regularly employed in the public schools of Ann Arbor,
whose classes shall be open to students in courses in Education at the University of Michigan for observational
study, under such regulations as may be formulated by the
Department of Education of the University together with
the Superintendent of City Schools; provided that it shall
be the duty of such teachers, without any interference with
the performance of the work of instruction regularly
assigned to them, to cooperate with the respective University instructors concerned in such manner as to render such
observational study as effective as possible.
Second: That the terms of the preceding section shall
not become operative in the case of any teacher who shall
indicate in writing to the Board of Education, through the
Superintendent of City Schools, his or her unwillingness to
be subject to such observational study.




102


JANUARY MEETING, I921


Third: That the Regents of the University of Michigan
agree to pay to the Board of Education of the City of Ann
Arbor for the privileges above specified two hundred ($200)
dollars per year for the Principal of the secondary or high
school, one hundred  ($ioo) dollars per year for each
teacher of the secondary or high school, one hundred ($Ioo)
dollars per year for the Principal of the elementary or
graded school and fifty ($50) dollars per year for each
teacher of the elementary or graded school chosen for such
observational study.
Fourth: This contract may be terminated at the option
of either of the parties to this agreement between the close
of any school year and the beginning of the next school
year, by notice in writing.
Fifth: That the terms of this agreement, or any portion thereof, shall not become operative until the same shall
have been officially ratified by the Board of Education of
the City of Ann Arbor and by the Regents of the University
of Michigan.
The above agreement has been ratified this I5th day of
December, 1920, by the Board of Education of the City of
Ann Arbor.
(Signed) EvRWIN E. SCHMID, President
(Signed) JOHN A. SCHLLEE, Secretary.
The above agreement has been ratified this
day of                  by the Regents of theUniversity
of Michigan.
The Secretary reported the following resignations. appointments, and other changes in the University staff as
authorized by the President:RESIGNATIONS AND DECLINATIONS
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THEI ARTS
Physics
Marion Rood, Assistant at $400, resigned before the
appointment took effect.
CHEMISTRY
General and Physical
N. H. Johnson, Assistant at $ioo per year, resigned
December 13.




JANUARY MEETING, I9Q.I


I03


MEDICAL SCHOOL
Serology
Charles Stiles, animal caretaker at $I5 per month,
resigned November 30.
Surgery
C. D. Dyason, Laboratory Assistant at $600 per year,
resigned October 31.
FELLOWSHIPS
Lura I. Miller, State College Fellowship, resigned
November 22.
Benjamin R. Reistein, Roy D. Chapin Fellowship in
Highway Transport, resigned on account of ill health,
before qualifying for any financial benefit under the fellowship.
APPOINTMENTS
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Botany
Egbert H. Walker, Student Assistant, for the months
of January and February, $12.50 per month.
Botanica! Gardens
John T. Berry, fireman, from October 25, $90 per month.
Robert E. Reed, Assistant Gardener, from October 26,
$Ioo per month.
English
Elizabeth Oakes, Assistant, from October 26 to June 30,
$0.40 per hour, 2'2 to 3 hours per week.
Political Science
A. M. Hyde, Instructor, from February 21 to June 30,
$2000 per year.
Physics
Harold R. Swift, Assistant, vice Marion Rood, resigned,
from October 15 to June 30, $400 per year.
COLLEGES O ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
Architecture
Ruth J. Roberts, Stenographer, from October II, $90
per month.
Amy G. Scutt, Stenographer, vice Ruth J. Roberts, from
January I, $1200 per year, twelve-month's basis.
Civil Engineering
Bernard Moll, Special Assistant, Sanitary Experiment
Station, from November 15 to April 15, $40 per month.




104            JANUARY M          TEETING, 192I
MEDICAL SCHOOL
Dermatology
Marjorie Lockwood, Stenographer, from     August I,
$1200 per year, twelve-month's basis.
Fediatrics
Eleanor Naekel, Stenographer, from December i, $goo
per year, twelve-month's basis.
Serology
Frank Barlow, animal caretaker, vice Charles Stiles,
resigned, from December I, $Io per month.
Surgery
William Troy, Laboratory Assistant, vice C. D. Dyason,
resigned, from November I to June 30, $Ioo per month,
payable one-half from the budget of the Department of
Anatomy and one-half from the budget of the Department
of Surgery.
HOMCOOPATHIC MEDICAL SCHOOL
Daniel S. Mackinnon, Laboratory     Assistant, from
December 15 to June 30, $40 per month.
CHEM IS'RY
Chemical Laboratory
Chester E. Beardsley, half-time Dispensing Assistant,
from October 25 to June 30, $250 per year.
Eugene R. Eleson, half-time Dispensing Assistant, from
October 25 to June 30, $250 per year.
Ralph W. Garlick, half-time Dispensing Assistant, from
October 25 to June 30, $250 per month.
Walter Rusche, Dispensing Assistant, from  November
22, $IOO per month.
General anzd Physical Chemistry
Veo G. Foster, Assistant, from December 13 to June 30,
$Ioo per year.
J. O'Kane, Assistant, from December 13 to June 30,
$Ioo per year.
UNIVERSITY EXTENSION SERVICE
Venona Vanderheide, Stenographer, from December 4,
$1200 per year, twelve-month's basis.
COMMITTEE ON STUDENT AFFAIRS
Elsa H. Swanson, Stenographer, from December I,
$iooo per year, twelve-month's basis.




JANUARY MEETING, 192I


Io5


FELLOWSHIPS
Nelson V. Russell, $300 University Scholarship, beginning with the second semester.
Miss Lawrence B. Sims, B.S.E., I92o, $500 University
Fellowship.
Herschel C. Smith, A.B., I913, B.C.E., I915, Roy D.
Chapin Fellowship in Highway Transport, vice Benjamin
R. Reistein, resigned, with stipend of $250, with an allowance of $50 for expenses.
SALARY ADJUSTMENTS
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Education
Margaret Cobb, Assistant in the Department of Education, Bureau of Tests and Measurements at $2000, changed
from the academic to the twelve-month's basis.
Harvey Lowrey, Teaching' Assistant in Education, salary increased from $600 to $800 per year, from October I.
HOM:EOPATHIC MEDICAL SCHOOL
P. G. Hanna, B.S., M.D., Instructor, salary increased
from $1800 to $2000 per year.
CHEMISTRY
General and Physical Chemistry
DeWitt Bell. Assistant, compensation increased from
$ico to $150 per year, from December 13.
Richard A. Nugent, Assistant at $I50 per year, compensation decreased to $Ioo per year.
The Secretary filed the following report, signed by the
President and Secretary, and on motion of Regent Sawyer
the settlement was approved by the Board:At the meeting of February, I920, the adjustment of
relations between the Michigan State Telephone Company
and the University of Michigan was taken from the program with the understanding that it would be brought be-fore
the Board by the President and Secretary when circumstances justified (see page 832, preceding volume).
After a personal interview, President Kuhn of the Telephone Company expressed the belief that he could, under
the law, adjust the question with the University on the basis
of payment by the University of the regular rates for trunk




io6


JANUARY MEETING, I92I


lines and various stations on the campus, with a concession
of $60 per month from the regular charge for switch board
in the campus branch exchange, this concession being on
the theory that the switch board and general apparatus was
installed for educational purposes.
The President and Secretary agreed to this settlement
to date from July I, I919, and we trust this action will meet
with the approval of the Board.
Regents Clements reported that the Committee on Buildings and Grounds was endeavoring to speed up the work of
the contractors on the new University Hospital, and that
this Committee expected to have the Buildings and Grounds
Department put in all work and materials which could be
most economically and advantageously provided now.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board authorized
repairs on the home of the Superintendent of Nurses of the
University Hospital at an expense estimated at $I240
chargeable to the Hospital fund.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, a Committee consisting of
the President, the Committee on Buildings and Grounds,
and the Secretary was requested to investigate and report to
the Board upon the organization of the Buildings and
Grounds Department.
Regent Sawyer presented the resignation of Mrs. Louise
Stock Cook as member of the Board of Governors of the
Martha Cook Building. In her letter of resignation Mrs.
Cook stated that she expected to travel for a considerable
period and would be unable to attend to the duties of membership in the Board. On motion of Regent Sawyer, Mrs.
Cook's resignation was accepted with regret.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Mrs. Harry C. Bulkley,
of Detroit, was appointed to succeed Mrs. Cook for the term
of three years ending January I, I924.
The financial statement of the Board of Governors of
the Martha Cook Building at the close of the year I919-I920
was presented by Regent Sawyer and on his motion accepted
for filing.
On motion of Regent Beal following the recommendation
of Dean Cooley leave of absence for the months of January
and February, I921, was granted to Professor John Airey,
with pay, to enable him to return to his old home in England




JANUARY MEETING, 1921


I07


on urgent personal business. It was understood that Professor Airey would arrange for the care of his work during
his absence.
On motion of Regent Gore, the leave of absence of Assistant Professor H. H. Atwell was continued, without
salary, through the second semester of the year I920-I92I
(see page 849, preceding volume).
The Board took a recess for lunch.
AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at 2:05 P. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent
Hanchett, and Regent Gore. Absent, Regent Murfin and
Superintendent Johnson.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Clifford Woody, Ph.D.,
of the University of Washington, was appointed Professor
of Education and Director of the Bureau of Tests and Measurements at the salary of $5000 per year beginning with the
University year I92I-I922.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the title of Professor Guy
M. Whipple was changed from "Professor of Experimental
Education and Director of the Bureau of Mental Tests and
Measurements" to "Professor of Experimental Education,"
this change to be effective with the University year I92I1922.
The President presented a letter from Professor Albert
A. Stanley tendering his resignation to take effect at the
end of the University year I920-I92I. On motion of Regent
Hanchett the Board accepted Professor Stanley's resignation and on motion of Regent Clements directed that the
record include the following expression of the emotions
with which the Board viewed the termination of Professor
Stanley's service:In accepting, with great regret, the resignation of Albert
Augustus Stanley, Professor of Music, the Board of Regents
is not unmindful of his efficient work.
As an earnest student of music, after graduation from




io8


JAiNUARY MEETING, 1z9.i


the Leipzig Conservatory in 1875, while filling the position
of Organist of Grace Church, Providence, R. I., he was
selected in I888, at the suggestion of President Angell, for
the chair of Professor of Music. He came with scholarly
attainments, combined with executive ability and with
an ardent desire to place music among the advanced Arts
of Michigan, and he was soon rewarded with interest and
success. By Michigan he was given the degree of Master
of Arts in I890. In I894 he became a Director of the University School of Music and soon thereafter Conductor of
the Ann Arbor May Festival. His energy, his tact and fine
discrimination in his selections of music, artists, and orchestras for the festivals have been rewarded by a most enviable
reputation extending over the state and country. He has
always stood for the production of the best music, and the
University and the state have profited. For many years the
May Festivals at Michigan have been eagerly attended, and
their beginning and success must be attributed to Professor
Stanley.
His kindly disposition has made him beloved by all, and
by those of his profession he has been honored by the Presidency both in the National and State Music Teachers'
Associations.
Of his recent work must be mentioned his catalogue of
the Stearns Collection of Musical Instruments, a work of
importance, showing much technical knowledge. The Board
of Regents appreciates these services, and, in his well-earned
retirement from most active service, wishes him health and
happiness.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That Albert Augustus Stanley be recommended to the Trustees of the Carnegie Foundation for the
Advancement of Teaching for the normal retiring allowance.
Dr. C. G. Parnall, as Medical Director of the University
Hospital, submitted to the Regents the following proposed
contract with the United States Public Health Service, with
his recommendation that it be approved by the Board:



JANUARY MIEETING, 192I


IGc9


PROPOSAL FOR THE CARE OF PATIENTS IN
HOSPITAL
U. S. PUBLIC IIEALTH SERVICE
To the Sutrgeon General, U. S. Public Health Service,
Washington, D. C.
Sir:-We hereby agree to receive all patients not suffering from smallpox, chicken pox, scarlet fever, measles, diphtheria, and tuberculosis of lungs, and gonorrhoea, in their
regular order and in such number as can properly receive
care without depriving the regular classes of patients now
admitted of hospital treatment, who are eligible for relief
under the laws and regulations governing the care and
treatment of patients by the Public Health Service, upon
requests (or permits) issued by competent authority, and
to furnish them with hospital or sanatorium care, including
subsistence, ordinary nursing, medical and surgical attendance, a reasonable amount of personal laundry, routine laboratory work, and necessary surgical dressings and medicines (except serums, vaccines, anti-toxins, arsphenamine,
and other unusually expensive medicines), at the rate of
$3.50 a day for each patient. CHARGES TO BE ALLOWED     FOR   THE    DAY    OF   ADMISSION, BUT
NOT FOR THE DAY OF DISCHARGE OR DEATH
OF PATIENT.
This agreement shall remain in force until terminated
at the request of either party after thirty days' written
notice.
By "hospital or sanatorium care" is meant the best
ward treatment afforded by the institution.  Reasonable
additional charges will be allowed for the use of operating
room, the services of an anaesthetist, X-ray plates, and
ambulance. No. additional charges of any kind will be paid
unless specific authority is secured from the District Supervisor.
By "medical and surgical attendance" is meant all treatment, including such surgery as is usually furnished by the
house staff of the hospital concerned. Reasonable fees nay
be paid for major surgery or special medical attendance
when authorized by the District Supervisor.
By "routine laboratory work" is meant the ordinary
laboratory procedures which are carried on regularly in the
laboratory of the hospital concerned. Extra charges must
be authorized by the District Supervisor.




II0            JANAUARY MEETING, 192r
Attention is directed to certain rights which are reserved
by the Public Health Service in the hospitalization of
patients under this contract, as follows:(a) Inspection of the hospital by an officer of the
Public Health Service designated for this purpose to determine whether the standards maintained conform to requirements necessary.
(b) Admission of a designated medical officer of the
Public Health Service to the rights and privileges of the
medical staff of said hospital in so far as such rights or
privileges pertain to the medical or surgical care and treatment of the patients of the Public Health Service in said
institution.
Any provision in this contract which cannot be carried
out by the hospital should be lined out.
UNIVERSITY HOSPITA.L
Signed  by............................
Director
Ann Arbor, Michigan
December 29, 1920
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the proposal was approved
by the Board with the following added conditions:i. There shall be inserted with the acceptance of the
United States Public Health Service a condition providing
for monthly settlements by the Government.
2. There shall be inserted a condition with similar
acceptance providing that copies of the reports of the
inspection mentioned in item (a) of the proposal shall be
delivered to the President of the University for the Regents.
A communication was received from Professor Louis A.
Strauss proposing the preparation and issue of a catalogue
of the McMillan Shakespeare Library as a memorial to the
late Professor Isaac N. Demmon. By request of Regent
Clements this communication was filed for further consideration at a later date.
A request was received from Professor Albert A. Stanley
that the Regents consider the necessity for extensive repairs
to the Frieze Memorial Organ. On motion of Regent Clements the Board directed that temporary repairs within a
cost of $200 should be made, pending further investigation.
On motion of Regent Gore the Board referred to the




JATNUARY MIEETING, 19.21


I I I


Executive Committee with power the request of the staff of
the University Hospital, received through Professor J. G.
Van Zwaluwenberg, for additional assistance in the Clinical
Laboratory.
On motion of Regent Leland, the sum of $600 was
added to the salary account of the Department of Roentgenology to provide an additional assistant for the remaining
six months of the present University year at a compensation
of $I200 per year.
On motion of Regent Leland, a special appropriation of
$I500 was made for the purchase of new equipment for the
elementary laboratory of Physics (see also page 773, preceding volume).
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board approved the
inclusion of courses in Highway Transport in the Summer
Session schedule of I92I, at an estimated cost of $850, provided the total budget of the Summer Session as already
adopted should not be increased thereby.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, fees in the Summer Session were fixed at the following rate effective with the Summer Session of I92I:All divisions  eight weeks  in  length...................$3000
Medical School: six weeks in lengthA.  General Courses...........................$30.00
B.  Clinical Courses............................ $35.o
Law  School: ten  weeks in  length.................... $37.50
These fees include laboratory fees except in laboratories
where there is actual consumption of materials more or less
under the control of the individual student, in which cases
there shall be a proper deposit made by the student, with a
refund at the end of the course of such an amount as is not
required to pay for materials consumed and breakages. It
is understood that the laboratories in which such deposits are
to be made include the laboratories of Chemistry, Bacteriology, and Hygiene (see page 892, preceding volume). The
proposal to include a Michigan Union fee and a Women's
League fee in the Summer Session fee was not adopted.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the following appointments to and changes in the teaching staff of the Summer
Session, as recommended by Dean Kraus, were approved by




I12


JANU4ARY MEETING, I9 z


the Board on the usual condition that the total budget be
not affected thereby.
COLLEGE OF LITERAtURE, SCIENCE, AND THE' ARTS
Education-                           Hours     Salary
Professor Ernest Burnham............... 32       $450.00
(Additional)
Superintendent Leslie A. Butler........... 32      450.oo
Director Floyd A. Rowe................. 64        850.00
Associate Professor L. L. Thurstone..... 64        675.00
Assistant Warren K. Layton.............            I00.00
Assistant Helen Davis..................           I00.00
Assistant Constance Hopkins............            00.00
Philosophy and PsychologyProfessor Walter B. Pillsbury............. 32     450.00
(Additional)
COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
Chemical Engineering —              Hours      Salary
Assistant Professor Clair Upthegrove..... 96       $550.oo
Instructor George D. Brown............ 96         425.00
Electrical EngineeringProfessor Benjamin F. Bailey........... 64        850.00
Assistant Professor Arthur D. Moore.... 72         412.50
Instructor Erwin E. Dreese.............. 96       425.00
Instructor James F. Fairman............. 96       425.00
The appointment of Professor Alfred H.
Lovell to be cancelled.
Engineering l/MechdnicsProfessor George W. Patterson.......... 64         850.oo
Assistant Professor Frank H. Stevens...   96       550.00
Instructor Richard T. Liddicoat......... 96       425.00
MEDICAL SCHOOL
ObstetricsInstructor Roland S. Cron............... 90        318.75
Instructor Norman F. Miller............. 90       3T8.75
EMBALMING AND SANITARY SCIENCE
Instructor Erman 0. Scott..............           200.00
ADMINISTRATION
Marguerite Chapin, Acting Dean of Women            500.00
A request was received from the Treasurer and the Secretary of the University for an audit and inspection of the
University's accounts.    On motion of Regent Leland, this




JANUARY MEETING, 1921


I I3


request was referred back to the Secretary with instructions
to furnish the Regents with an estimate of the cost involved.
The Secretary filed the usual monthly statement of estimated income, and appropriation to date.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board referred to
Regent Beal with power the matter of a claim by a firm
dealing in tax titles to the North 2 of the Southwest j4
Section 26, T   37 North Range 3 West, this description
being one of those deeded to the University by C. and H. W.
Bogardus in   908o (see pages 274-275, Regents' Proceedings
of I906-I9I0).
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board declined to order
copies of The Michiganensian for the year I92I for distribution to high schools of the state.
The Board received the following communication:Gentlemen:Under Articles of Agreement dated March i5, 1918, I
donated to your Honorable Body certain real estate for a
fund designated the "H. H. Herbst Scholarship Fund."
On August I2, I919, I added to this fund in cash deposited with the Huron Valley Building and Savings Association $7000, and $800 in Liberty Bonds. This donation was
accepted by your Honorable Body September 26, 1919.
On December 30, I919, I made an additional donation
to this fund of a Warranty Deed executed to your Honorable Body of a lot on Ferdon Road. In making this donation I expressed my intention of building a residence on it
with a view of making it my home instead of my present
place of abode.
I have an additional ten thousand dollars which I wish
to add to the above named fund upon like terms and conditions, with the understanding, however, that in the event I
would want to build on the Ferdon Road lot you will allow
me to use as much of the $Io,ooo as I may need toward its
completion.
I am, not absolutely sure that I will build, and should I
build it is possible that I may have enough funds to do so
without calling for any portion of the $Io,ooo, but I wish it
to be so arranged that I may be able to call upon it should
I build and not have enough funds to complete the house.
Of course, any additional value I may place in the lot on
account of improvements adds to that extent to the fund,




II4


JANUARY MEETINGr, 1921


since the title to the property is in the Regents. If I do
not build within two years I am reasonably certain that I
shall be able to put up such a residence as I contemplate
without calling for any part of this $1o,ooo.
Very truly yours,
H. H. H;RBST
Ann Arbor, Michigan
December 6, IQ20
(See pages I76-I8o, 690, and 824-825, preceding volume.)
On motion of Regent Clements, the offer of Mr. Herbst
was accepted with thanks in accordance with its terms.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Director of the University Extension Service was authorized to recommend to
the President and Regents an Assistant Director with title
and rank of an Assistant Professor, the new official to begin
his duties with the University year I92I-I922.
The Secretary outlined to the Regents the arrangement
under which for a number of years heat and light had been
furnished to the State Psychopathic Hospital from the University power plant. On motion of Regent Leland, the
Board authorized the continuance of the present arrangement.
The Secretary filed with the Regents a communication
from Adjutant General Harris of the U. S. Army, urging
that the scholarships for "honorably discharged veterans of
the late war" (see page 948, preceding volume) should be
made available for any qualified soldiers in the service who
might be recommended upon discharge. The Adjutant
General stated that the intention of the War Department in
suggesting these patriotic scholarships was to stimulate interest in education among the soldiers and to assist deserving men who through the general educational facilities in the
Army had fitted themselves for higher education. On motion
of Regent Leland, the Board approved the suggestion, and
made these scholarships available for such soldiers.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board authorized
assumption by the University of institutional membership in
the American Student Health Association, with an annual
membership fee at present of $5.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board declined to
authorize the attendance, at the expense of the University,




JANUARY MEETING, 1921


I I5


of Miss Marion 0. Wood upon a meeting of the National
Educational Association to be held in Atlantic City at an
early date.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board referred to Regent
Murfin with power a bill presented by Cavanaugh and
Burke, attorneys.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board authorized the
charging off of an overdraft of $323.07 on the current expense account of the College of Dental Surgery, year I9I9 -I920. The Board further authorized the inclusion of the
furnishing of towels for the dental clinic, in the clinic expense account rather than in the current expense account of
the College of Dental Surgery.
On recommendation of the committee in charge of the
examinations for the Phillips Scholarships the following
were appointed to these scholarships for the year I920-I921
with stipend of $50 in each case:Winifred Smeaton
Lucilla Walker
Mary J. Loughlin
On motion of Regent Beal, upon the recommendation of
the Faculty of the College of Dental Surgery, the degree of
Doctor of Dental Surgery was conferred upon the following:John McLauchlan Parsons
John Cornelius Porter
David Tybutus Sundstrom
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board referred to the
Secretary with power certain questions arising between the
Auditor General of the state and the offices of the two hospitals of the University, with respect to charges against
patients sent to the hospitals under the state statutes.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board voted that
appropriations from the University's general funds for fellowships or scholarships in the Graduate School should hereafter be made in a lump sum with the understanding that the
Executive Board of the Graduate School might recommend
to the Regents appointment to fellowships and scholarships
with such stipends as in the good judgment of the Executive




JANUARY MEETING, I92I


Board might be desirable to fit individual cases, to a total
within the appropriation. Any thus far unassigned balances
in fellowships in the Graduate School budget for the year
I920-I92I may, under this action, be treated in the same
manner by the Executive Board of the Graduate School.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board authorized
traveling expenses not in excess of $Ioo for Professor
Aubrey Tealdi in his attendance upon the meeting of the
American Association of Landscape Architects in New
York, and for a conference with authorities of the Department of Agriculture concerning the acquisition of plants for
the arboretum.
Communications from Professor William H. Hobbs and
Dean Effinger informed the Regents that ex-Governor and
ex-Regent Chase S. Osborn had deposited with the treasurer the sum of $50ooo as the initial contribution to a foundation for the Geological Department of the University to be
used in carrying out geological expeditions during the years
I92I-I922, and in later years. On motion of Regent Hubbard this gift was accepted and the President was requested
to transmit to Mr. Osborn the thanks of the Board.
Professor Hobbs requested, with the approval of Dean
Effinger, leave of absence for the year 192I-1922 in order
that he might embark upon the first expedition of the proposed series, through the South Pacific Ocean, the island
groups off the Asiatic coast, and the Andean chains of South
America, with the expectation also that he would devote a
portion of his time to working up the results of the expedition at a European university center and would probably
deliver there a course of lectures at the same time. On
motion of Regent Hubbard this leave was granted with full
salary, less such an amount as may be necessary to secure the
services of a substitute satisfactory to the President and
the Dean.
On motion of Regent Gore, the title of Charles C. Fries,
on leave for the present year from his professorship of English at Bucknell University, was changed from Instructor in
English to Acting Assistant Professor of English. This
change in title does not involve any change in salary.
Dean Vaughan communicated to the Regents a gift
from the widow of the late Doctor George M. Sternberg, at




JANUARY MEELTING, 1921


11 7


one time Surgeon General of the United States Army, of
$IooQ in Government bonds, the interest on which is to provide annually a medal to be awarded to the student in the
Medical School of this University having the best record in
the subject of preventive medicine. On motion of Regent
Hubbard this gift was accepted with the thanks of the
Board.
Professor Albert A. Stanley communicated to the Regents the following gifts to the Stearns Musical Collection:
From Mr. William Wheeler, of the University School of
Music, a clarinet by a celebrated maker, "Martin 'a Paris,"
about I820.
From Mr. John Bellamy Taylor, of the General Electric
Company, Schenectady, New York, two valuable oriental
flutes, one of the latter being accompanied by a monograph
from Professor A. Terada, College of Science, Imperial
University, Tokyo, Japan. On motion of Regent Hubbard
these gifts were accepted with the thanks of the Regents to
the donor.
Professor Ruthven reported a.gift from Mr. Calvin
Goodrich, of Detroit, of $75 toward the expense of printing
the scientific publications of the Museum of Zoology. On
motion of Regent Hanchett this gift was accepted with
thanks.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the sum of $600 was
voted to provide furniture for the new offices of the Dean
of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board approved the
action of the President and Dean Effinger in authorizing
Professor E. C. Case of the Department of Geology to render weekly service for the time being, ordinarily on Saturday, to the Department of Geology of the University of
Chicago.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board approved an
arrangement reported and recommended by Professor Ruthven, between Columbia University, the University of Indiana, and the University of Michigan by which the latter
two Universities would join in assuming the salary of one
member of the so-called Mulford expedition which Columbia University is organizing to explore the headwaters of




JANUARY IMEETITNG, r92I


the Amazon in Western Brazil and Eastern Colombia, and
to collect specimens in that region. The sum of $600 was
appropriated for this purpose.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board extended thanks
to Dr. C. G. Parnall for his gift of $Ioo to establish a loan
fund for student nurses in the University Hospital Training
School for Nurses. Solicitation by Dr. Parnall of further
gifts for loan funds of this nature was approved, provided
such solicitation should be in conference with the President.
The President presented an invitation from the Trustees
and Faculty of Clark University to the University of Michigan to send a delegate to the Inauguration of Wallace
Walter Atwood as President of Clark University. On
motion of Regent Hanchett, the President was authorized
to appoint such delegate, and the sum of $I25 was set aside
to cover his expenses.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board approved the
plan of the Student Council as outlined by the President, for
a "drive" for Eastern European and Chinese relief.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote.
On motion, the Board adjourned to the date of the next
regular meeting, February 4, I92I, at 9:30 A. M.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH, Secretary.




FEBRUARY MEETING
UNIVERSITY OS MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, FEBRUARY IO, 192I.
The Board met at the house of President Burton at 7:45
P. M., February Io.
Present, the President, Regent Beal, Regent Clements,
Regent Murfin, Regent Leland, and Regent Sawyer. Absent,
Regent Hanchett, Regent Gore, Regent Hubbard, and Superintendent Johnson.
The meeting called for February 4 had been postponed
to the above date in view of the illness of President Burton
on February 4.
Regent Murfin filed an audit of the University of Michigan Union, made at the request of the Union directors, by
the Detroit Trust Company. The audit covered the period
beginning September I, I915, and ending August 31, I92o,
and comprised an extensive check of all details applicable to
the year 1920 and a test of current transactions for the
previous four years.   The audit covered 71 typewritten
pages. Its general summing-up was as follows:In conclusion, we wish to express our appreciation of
the general efficient work which the Union organization has
done in the conduct of transactions through its business
offices. The extensive volume of clerical duties necessary
for the collection and disbursement of building fund items
as well as the usual operating accounting details have shown
extreme accuracy in all items coming under our observation.
The entire office organization reflects a business management comparable with the most highly successful commercial establishments, and we. feel that special commendation
is worthy of being extended for the manner in which the
development has taken place as well as the efficient and
careful execution of routine duties.




I20           F:EBRUARY MEETING, 1921
On motion of Regent Murfin the audit of the Michigan
Union was received and placed on file.
On motion of Regent AMurfin the minutes of the meeting
of January 7 were approved as submitted to the memlbers in
proof with certain specified changes.
On motion of Regent Murfin the Board directed that the
Dean of Students when appointed, in conference with the
President shall prepare a standard form of lease to be recommended for use in relations between landlords and student tenants, and shall formulate a general code of rules
and regulations with respect to the general living conditions
of the student body.
On motion of Regent Murfin the Board took the action
set forth in the following program:There is hereby created and established a University
Department of Physical Education.
This department shall be put in charge of some person
to be chosen by the Board of Regents who shall have the
rank, privileges, and duties of a full professor and hold the
title of Director of Physical Education.
The entire salary of the Director of Physical Education
shall be paid by the Board of Regents.
The Director o.f Physical Education shall be in primary
charge of all athletic fields for men and women, of both gymnasiums (the men's gymnasium and the women's gymnasium), of all sports, indoor, outdoor. intercollegiate, and
intramural. He shall have entire charge of the athletic
office as now or hereafter constituted, and, by virtue of his
position, shall be a member of and Chairman of the present
Board in Control of Outdoor Athletics, whose powers and
duties shall not be affected by this resolution except as
expressly provided herein.
All assistants and instructors in this work or department who are engaged in activities now or hereafter prescribed by rule shall be paid by the Board of Regents and
appointed by them on the recommendation of the Director
of Physical Education, concurred in by the President of the
University, and by the President transmitted for action to
the Board of Regents in the same manner and under like
circumstances as is now provided for all other campus
appointments.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 192I


121


All trainers, coaches, assistant coaches, and persons in
like employment shall be appointed by the Board in Control of Outdoor Athletics on the recommendation of the
Director of Physical Education.  Their salaries shall be
determined and paid by said Board in Control of Outdoor
Athletics.
It is hoped and expected that by the adoption of this
program a method will be speedily found whereby every student on the campus will become actively interested in his
or her physical well being, and to that end the so-called
intramural athletics in some proper form, it is expected,
will lbe further enlarged and' developed upon the campus.
On motion of Regent Murfin the Board voted that because of the impossibility of seating the entire student body
at any indoor event, such as an indoor track meet or a basket
ball game, from and after the beginning of the first semester
of I92I-1922 the outdoor physical education fee now a part
of the alnnual tuition shall not entitle the student to admission to these indoor events. The Board in Control of Outdoor Athletics was authorized to charge a reasonable, proper
admission fee for such events.
On motion of Regent Murfin the Board took the following action:Resolved, That there shall be established the office of
Dean of Students and that said official shall by virtue of
his office also be a member of the University Senate, and
Chairman of the Senate Committees on Student Activities
and on Student Publications.
Resolved fuirther, That Professor Joseph A. Bursley is
hereby appointed Dean of Students, with salary at the rate
of $7500 for the academic year.
Resolved further, That this appointment take effect at
once.
On motion of Regent Leland the Board directed the
President and Secretary to provide such assistance, office
space, furniture, and equipment as may be needed by the
Dean of Students.
Regent Leland stated that he had purchased $40,000
worth of 1928 United States Liberty Bonds to yield about
six per cent (see page Ioo).




122


FEBRUARY MEETING, I92p


Regent Beal informally reported with respect to the extension of Forest Hill Cemetery in the direction of University property, and to possible planting of trees which would
be desirable under these circumstances (see page SI).
Regent Leland further reported that he had purchased
$I4,500 worth of six per cent first and refunding Detroit
Edison Company gold bonds, to yield about seven per cent
as an investment of the Alice Freeman Palmer History Fellowship funds (see page 9).
On motion of Regent Clements the Board approved the
proposal to run a highway through the Bogardus tract on
condition that the University should bear none of the expense of the construction of this road.
The President filed a statement by Professor Reuben
Peterson relative to the methods under which homes are
found for children born in the University Hospital whose
natural guardians are unable or unwilling to provide for
them (see page Ioo).
The President reported that the Carnegie Foundation for
the Advancement of Teaching had declined to provide a retiring allowance for the Dean of the Homoeopathic Medical
School (see page 987, preceding volume), on the ground
that the Foundation would not make provision for retiring
allowances for more than a single Medical School in any
one university.
On motion of Regent Clements the Board voted that
when Dean Hinsdale's resignation should become effective,
the University itself would provide a retiring allowance for
him equal to that to which he would be entitled under the
usual Carnegie -Foundation plan.
On motion of Regent Clements the Board accepted with
thanks the gift of $Ioo from Mr. James L. Lee, of Detroit,
as a scholarship loan fund for pupils in the University Hospital Training School for Nurses.
The Secretary reported the following resignations, appointments, and other changes in the University staff, as
approved by the President, within the budget:



FEBRUARY MEETING, 1921


123


RESIGNATIONS AND DECLINATIONS
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Administration
Gladys Hooper, Clerk to the Registrar, resigned January 8.
Chemistry
Wayne W. Albright, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry,
resigned at close of first semester.
Jacob K. Johnson, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry,
resigned at close of first semester.
Geology
Wade DeVries, Assistant in Geology and Assistant in
the Geological Muselum, resigned at close of first semester.
Rhetoric
Marion H. Studley, Assistant, resigned November 30.
COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
Helen McNamee, Student Assistant in the office of
Secretary Hopkins, resigned at the close of first semester.
Chemical Engineering
Myrta Mulholland, half-time Stenographer, resigned
January 31.
MEDICAl. SCHOOL
Internal IMedicine
Elizabeth M. Havener, Stenographer, resigned January 31.
COLEGE OF PHARMACY
Myrta Mulholland, half-time Stenographer, resigned
January 31.
ADMINISTRATION
Dfctaphone Office
Elsie G. Cutmore, Stenographer, resigned February 5.
LIBRARY
Donald J. Thorpe, Assistant at the Corridcr Desk,
resigned July I, 1920.
MII,1TARY SCIENCE AND TACTICS
Roy W. Collier, Laboratory Assistant, resigned December 20.
APPOINTMENTS
COLLEGE 0F LITERATURE, SCIENCE, ANI) THE ARTS
A dministration
Gladys Alura Paine, Clerk to the Registrar, vice Gladys
Hooper, resigned, from January II, $900 per year, twelvemonths' basis.




I24


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1921


Chemistry
Monica M. Allen, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry,
vice Wayne W. Albright, resigned, for the second semester,
$Ioo per year.
Jacob K. Johnson, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry,
vice Elton B. Tucker, resigned for the second semester,.
$Ioo per year.
Education
Helen M. Walker, Clerk and Stenographer, from January I, $1200 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Geology
Harry L. Marvin, Assistant, vice Wade DeVries, resigned, for the second semester, $200 per year.
Leroy G. Snow, Assistant in the Geological Museum,
vice Wade DeVries, resigned, for the second semester, $200
per year.
Rhetoric
Marjorie B. Avery, Assistant, vice Marion H. Studley,
resigned, from January 5, $250 per year.
COLLEGES oF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
A. dmninistrationt
Florence A. Shirey, Student Assistant in the office of
Secretary Hopkins, vice H.elen McNamee, resigned, for the
second semester, $250 per year.
Elgineering Shops
Lawrence A. Philipp, Student Assistant in the Foundry
Laboratory, for five months from February I, $30 per month.
Clarence J. Swigert, Student Assistant, for five months
from February I, $25 per month.
Mechanical Engineering
Alfred B. Curtis, Student Assistant, from January I,
$250 per year.
George E. Oles, Teaching Assistant, second semester,
$750 per year.
Moderln Languages
William B. Anderson, Instructor, second semester, $1700
per year.
Julio B. Luzunaris, Instructor, second semester, $r1oo
per year.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1921                      125
Surveying
Howard W. Slack, Instructor, second semester, $I5oo
per year.
Edward Young, Instructor, second semester, $I5oo per
year.
MEDICAL SCHOOL
Intternal Medicine
Blanche Hendershot, Stenographer, vice Elizabeth Havener, resigned, from January I, $900 per year, twelve-months'
basis.
LIBRARY
Henrietta Scranton, Assistant in the Reading Room,
vice Margaret Smith, promoted, from January I8, $1500
per year, twelve-months' basis.
Carl L. Whitchurch, Assistant at the Corridor Desk,
vice Donald J. Thorpe, resigned, from January 17, $goo per
year.
MILITARY SCIENCE AND TACTICS
Master Signal Sergeant Harry F. MAiller, Laboratory
Assistant, vice Roy W. Collier, resigned, without salary.
FELLOWS HIPS
Harold T. Corson, holder of the National Steel Fabric
Company Fellowship in Highway Engineering, with stipend
of $250 plus $50 for expenses, payment to be made upon
completion of the particular investigation involved.
ADMiNISTRATION
Elsie G. Cutmore, Stenographer in the Dictaphone Office
from January I, $I200 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Sala ry Adjustlmen ts
Richard M. Page, Assistant in Psychology, salary increased from $300 per year to $600, second semester.
Lena Henkle, Filing Clerki in the Health Service, salary
increased from  $65 per month to $75 per month, from
January I, 1921.
Ethel Holt, in charge of Dictaphone Office, salary increased from $IIOO to $1200 per year, from January I, 1921.
On motion of Regent Clements the Board set aside the
sum of $I8O to cover the cost of preparing offices in the socalled S. A. T. C. building, or automobile laboratory, for
headquarters of the Department of Military Science and
Tactics.  It was understood that the equipment necessary




126


FEBRUARY MEETING, I92I


for the offices would be provided out of funds already
appropriated.
On motion of Regent Beal the sum of $I75 was added
to the current expense account of the Department of
Neurology.
On motion of Regent Murfin, Regent Beal was appointed
to initial the University vouchers for the months of January,
February, and March.
The Secretary filed a letter indicating that confusion
had arisen in the public mind between certain proposed privately operated dormitory companies and the University
proper. It was the sense of the Regents that to receive the
approval and co-operation of the University such dormitory
companies should operate under names or titles which would
avoid their confusion with the University itself.
On motion of Regent Sawyer the traveling expense
vouchers of Regent Murfin from January 7 to December I6,
1920, inclusive, were approved in the sum of $235.93.
On motion of Regent Leland the traveling expense
vouchers of Regent Gore from April I6, to November 27,
1920, inclusive, were approved in the sum of $112.60.
On motion of Regent Leland the Board voted compensation of $250 per month to Professor Joseph A_. Bursley for
services rendered as Chairman of the Housing Bureau
through the months of October, November, December, and
January.
The Board took a recess until 9 A. M. February iI.
SESSION OF FEBRUARY IT, I92I
The Board met in the Regents' Room at 9:Io A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
Sawyer, Regent Clements, Regent Gore, and Regent Murfin.
Absent, Regent Hanchett, who later took his seat Superintendent Johnson, who was present at the afternoon session,
and Regent I-Iubbard.
The President presented correspondence from a member of the Legislature inquiring whether it was the purpose




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1921


t27


of the Regents to increase the fees of non-resident students,
and the reasons for the attitude of the Board. On motion
of Regent Murfin the President was authorized to advise the
writer of this letter and other inquirers that the subject of
fees of non-resident students has been for a long time a
matter of interest and study with the Regents and that these
fees have been increased from time to time as circumstances
justified; that they were last increased for the present University year; and that further increases are contemplated in
Dentistry and in Medicine, and finally that the Regents
would regard a general non-resident fee of $250 per annum
as absolutely prohibitive.
On motion of Regent Sawyer the annual fee for nonresident male students in the College of Dental Surgery was
fixed at $200, and for non-resident female students in that
college at $196, beginning with the year I92I-I922.
On motion of Regent Sawyer the annual fee for nonresident male students in the Medical Schools of the University was fixed at $200, and for non-resident female students in these schools at $196, beginning with the year
1921-1922.
On motion of Regent Gore, John Crowe Brier was appointed Professor of Chemical Engineering for the second
semester of the present University year with compensation
at the rate of $4000 per annum.
On motion of Regent Gore, Harry Linn Campbell was
appointed Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering for
the second semester of the present University year with
compensation at the rate of $2700 per year.
On motion of Regent Beal, Arthur Raymond Carr was
promoted from Teaching Assistant in Chemical Engineering
at a salary of $750 per year to an instructorship in Chemical
Engineering with salary at the rate of $5oo00 per year beginning with the second semester, and the appointment of
an undergraduate assistant in Chemical Engineering at the
rate of $250 per year, for the second semester, was
authorized.
Funds covering the salaries of Messrs. Brier, Campbell,
and Carr, and the undergraduate assistantships are already
provided for in the Chemical Engineering budget.




I28


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1921


On motion of Regent Gore, Roger Thomas was appointed Instructor in Rhetoric, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, for the second semester of the present
University year, with salary at the rate of $iSoo per year,
vice Kenneth Kuhn, whose term of service was for the first
semester only. This appointment added $I50 to the budget.
On motion of Regent Murfin, Professor E. C. Case was
appointed Director of the Geological Museum of the University, vice Professor William H. Hobbs, resigned as Director
of the Museum.
On motion of Regent Beal there was added to the title
of Instructor George M. Ehlers the designation, "Custodian
in Invertebrate Paleontology."
On motion of Regent Gore, Ellen C. Semple was appointed Lecturer in Historical Geography in the Department
of Geology and Geography for the present University year
with compensation of $250 per year, vice Mr. Frank Leverett who is unable to serve this year.
On motion of Regent Murfin, First Lieutenant Frederick
W. Hoorn, U. S. A., was appointed Assistant Professor of
Military Science and Tactics, to have charge of the Signal
Corps Unit of the R. O. T. C.
On motion of Regent Murfin it was held that increases
requested in two salaries in' the Department of Romance
Languages, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
could not be made at this time, on the principle that salaries
could not be increased in mid-year except in cases of the
greatest emergency.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board authorized an
additional Instructor in Romance Languages, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, with salary not in excess
of $I8oo per year, for the second semester.
Regent Hanchett took his seat.
On motion of Regent Murfin leave of absence was
granted to Professor John G. Winter for the University
year 1921-I922 to enable him to spend a year in foreign
study and travel. This leave is on full salary less such
amount as may be necessary to secure a substitute satisfactory to the President and Dean.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board requested the
President to submit for the consideration of the Regents,




FEBRUARY MEETING, 192I


I29


prior to the next ensuing University year, a new general plan
to govern the granting of leave of absence.
A communication was received from Dean Lloyd embodying a revised plan for facilitating research and improving teaching in all departments of study in the University
(see page 57). After considerable discussion, on motion of
Regent Murfin it was voted that action upon this communication be postponed until the March meeting.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board postponed consideration of the matter of publishing a catalogue of the
McMillan Shakespeare Library (see page IIO) until the
May meeting.
A request was received from the Michigan Union for
permission to present a series of entertainments, including
moving pictures, in Hill Auditorium. This request had the
approval of Professor L. A. Strauss, as Chairman of the
Committee on Student Affairs. On motion of Regent Clements, the request was granted with the understanding that
the permission should not constitute a precedent for future
actions.
A communication was received from Mrs. W. D. Henderson, as Secretary of the Alumnae Council of the Alumni
Association of the University, requesting the Regents to
approve the launching by the Alumnae Council of a campaign for $I,ooo,ooo to build and endow a women's building at the University. On motion of Regent Sawyer, seconded by Regent Gore, the Regents gave their approval to
this proposition.
A further communication received from Mrs. Henderson, as Secretary of the Alumnae Council, requested the Regents to provide a site for the proposed women's building.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, seconded by Regent Gore, the
Board voted to provide such a site if the campaign should
raise funds of $500,000 or more. The vote on this action
was: Aye, Regent Sawyer, Regent Gore, Regent Beal, and
Regent Hanchett. No, Regent Murfin, Regent Leland, and
Regent Clements.
A communication from Dean Ward, of the College of
Dental Surgery, stated that Professor N. S. Hoff, of the
College, desired to offer his resignation provided he might




130


FEBRUARY MEETING, 192I


receive the usual retiring allowance from  the Carnegie
Foundation. On motion of Regent Murfin the President
was requested to take up this question with the officials of
the Carnegie Foundation.
The Secretary presented to the Board in a general way
the proposal to extend to others than members of the Faculty the present plan for contributory retiring allowance
(see pages 482-487, preceding volume), or some similar
plan. On motion of Regent Murfin this question was referred for investigation and report, including an estimate
of the probable cost, to the President, Regent Clements, and
the Secretary.
On motion of Regent Leland, the sum of $2500, was
added to the current expense budget of the Department of
Surgery, with the understanding that $500 of this fundwould be transferred to the fund for the maintenance of the
so-called Clinical Laboratory.
Regent Murfin was excused.
On motion of Regent Leland the sum of $300 was added
to the salary budget of the Department of Organic Chemistry to provide an additional teaching assistant for the second semester of the present University year with compensation at the rate of $600 per year.
On motion of Regent Leland the sum of $5000 was
added to the current expense account of the Chemical
Laboratory.
On motion of Regent Leland the Board authorized the
payment of traveling expenses of Professor John Crowe
Brier and Assistant Professor Harry Linn Campbell, respectively from Holland, Michigan, and Bay City, Michigan, to Ann Arbor and return, for personal interviews with
the Dean and the President previous to their appointment to
the Faculty of Chemical Engineering (see page -). These
expenses are to be charged to the Chemical Engineering current expense account.
The Secretary presented the biennial' inventory of the
University made up, in accordance with Section 2225 of the
compiled laws of Michigan, as of June 30, I920 (see page
932, preceding volume). The inventory totals were summarized as follows:



FEBRUARY MEETING, 192I


I3I


Value
Jutie 30, 1920
Real Estate......$  816,599.73
Trust Fund    Real
Estate...........  464,909.64
Buildings and Land
I m p r o vements,
University....... 6,455,342.4I
Psychopathic Hospital.............   82, I 4.03
Equipment     a n d
Supplies,
University..... 3,483,372.48
Psychopathic Hospital.............  23.965.59
Totals...... $1 I,326,303.88


Value
Junle 30, 19,18
$ 624,522.68


Increase in
value in last
tzwo years
$ I920 77.05.............*464,909.64;1,660,.32.20  I,794,8I0.2I
79,043.13    3,070.90
2,782,748.22  700,624.26


I7,314.87
$8,I64,161.10


6,650.72
$3,I62, 42.78


*Truist Flund real estate has not been included in the inventory of
previous years.
On motion of Regent Gore the inventory was accepted
and adopted by the Board.
On motion of Regent Leland the sum of $4000 was
added to the current expense budget of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
On motion of Regent Beal the Board authorized the payment of traveling expenses of Professor Campbell Bonner
upon a trip to the meeting of the Classical Association of the
Middle West and South, to be held at St. Louis, March 25
and 26, when Professor Bonner is to participate in the
program.
On motion of Regent Gore, Professor Harley H. Bartlett was appointed as a member of the Executive Board of
the Graduate School (see pages 8o-8I) for a period of four
years beginning with the University year 1920-1921.
On motion of Regent Beal, Clara J. Allison, who is now
studying at the American Academy for Classical Studies in
Rome, was appointed to an honorary fellowship.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, and upon recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, Teacher's Diplomas were voted to the following:



I32


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1921


Frederick Truman Hawley    Theo Josephine Wilson
Joseph Rubins
On motion of Regent Hanchett the following appointments and changes in the teaching staff of the Summer Session, as recommended by Dean Kraus, were approved by
the Board on the usual condition that the budget be not
affected thereby:COLEGE OP LITERATURL:, SCIENCE, AND THE'H ART'S
Latin-                             IIo,:rs  Sallor
Instructor Eugene S. McCartney............ 64  $283.33
SemiticsProfessor Leroy Waterman................. 32   425.00
COLLJEGES OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
Chelmlical EntgineerilgAssociate Professor Eugene H. Leslie......6 64 675.o
BIOLOGICAL, STATION
Assistant Professor Zeno P. Metcalf........   55o.oo
Mrs. Lois S. Ehlers, Dean of Women.......      100.00
(The appointment of MIrs. Frank C. Gates
to be cancelled)
LIBRARY METHODS
Instructor  Clare  M ullett....................  I50.00
Instructor  Esther  Peers.....................  I5o.o
Special Lecturers
President Dwight B. Waldo................      30.00
Superintendent William G. Coburn...........     30.00
Superintendent Charles L. Spain.............    25.00
Dr. J. Adams  Puffer.......................    75.00
A communication was received from Mr. Jay H. Payne,
a student, stating that he came to Ann Arbor in the summer
of I919, and enrolled in the University at the beginning of
the year I919-1920 before he had been in the state six
months. Mr. Payne requested that in view of the fact that
he had purchased a residence in Ann Arbor and intended
to continue to reside in this state, he be given permission to
register as a resident of Michigan for the present University
year. On motion of Regent Leland this request was denied.
On motion of Regent Gore the Board'approved the traveling expense vouchers of Regent Hanchett in the sum of
$334.82 covering the period from    December 2I, 1916, to
December 13, I919, inclusive.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1921                   I33
On motion of Regent Hanchett the Board approved the
traveling expense vouchers of Regent Beal in the amount of
$119.29 for the period from March 22 to April 23, I920, inclusive, and in the sum of $29.I6 under date of December
12, 1920.
In a communication the University Senate recommended
the following proposed annual calendar, based on the semester plan and covering a period of nine years. On motion
of Regent Gore the calendar was approved.
FIRST SEMESTER
Close for                     Length first
Clhristmas Reopen after  End of  Semester in
Year     Open      Vacation  New Year first Semester week days
1921-22 Tle. Sept. 27  Fri. Dec. i6 Tue. Jan. 3  Fri. Feb. o0  I04
1922-23  "    26    "    " 15  "  "  3  "      9    103
923-24   " ' 25    "  " 14  Thu. "  3  "      3    102
1924-25        23   "     "9  Tue.  6   "   "  6    104
I925-26  (  '  22   "  "  I8    "    5  "      5    104
1926-27  "  " 28    "    17   "  "  4   "   " II    I04
I927-28  "  '  27    i'   6   "     '  3  "  "      104
1928-29  "  " 25         I " 14 Thu.  3  "  "       102
1929-30   "   24    "  " 20  Tue.   7   "      7    I04
SECOND SEMESTER
Length
Second Leingth
Close for                    Semester Year
Spring  Reopent after  Commence- in week in week
Year    Open     Recess Spl-ing Recess  mlenlt  days  days
1921-22 Mon, Feb. I3 Fri. Apr. 7 Tue. Apr. 18 Mon. June I9  98  202
1922-23       1 I2  "6   I" 17        "     8   98    201
I923.24       I I     I I  "  "  22  "     i 6  98    200
1924-25  "  "  9       I       i " 22" 15      98    202.
1925-26  "     8    " 9      " 20       "   4   98    202
I926-27  "    1"  4 ". 8. " 19  "  " ' 20  98    202
1927-28  "  " 13.   6     " 17   "   "   8   98    202
928-29.. I.I  1 I2 2    23         1 I 7  98  200
1929-30  "       " 0  "  II I   "  22  I"   6   98    202
On motion of Regent Gore a new plan for commencement week, as recommended in the Senate's communication
was adopted, to take effect with Commencement, 1922. This
revision provides that Class Day shall be held on Friday,
Alumni Day on Saturday, the Baccalaureate Service on Sunday morning, and the Commencement Exercises on Monday
morning, thus permitting the graduating exercises to be held
over the week end, an arrangement which will undoubtedly
prove more convenient for many of the Alumni. On motion




134


FEBRUARY MEETING, I92I


of Regent Hanchett, the time of the Baccalaureate Service
on the commencement program of I92I, was set at II o'clock
in the morning, Sunday, June 26.*
The Board took a recess for lunch.
AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at 2:45 P. M. Present, the
President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer,
Regent Hanchett, and Superintendent Johnson. Absent,
Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Gore, and
Regent Murfin.
Regent Sawyer read and on his motion the Board accepted and placed on file a communication from  Dean
Vaughan and six other members of the Medical Faculty setting forth their views concerning the proper relationship between the University Hospital and the University Medical
School and the relationship of both to the State.
On motion of Regent Beal, Carl D. LaRue was appointed
Instructor in Botany for the second semester of the present
University year with salary at the rate of $T8o0 per year.
The amount paid to Mr. LaRue under this appointment is
to be deducted from the salary of Professor F. C. Newcombe, absent on leave (see page 77).
On motion of Regent Leland the Board authorized assurance to Acting Assistant Professor Charles Carpenter Fries
that he would be appointed to an Acting Assistant Professorship in English for the year I921-I922 with salary of
$200( for the year.
On motion of Regent Leland $500 was added to the
salary roll of the Dean of Women to provide for the appointment of certain assistant social directors, their individual
compensations to be fixed by Dean Jordan and the President.
The President presented a letter from Mr. Frederick K.
Stearns, offering to pay the expenses, at an estimated cost
of $Iooo, of publishing a catalogue of the Stearns Musical
* The entire new scheme for Commencement Week was reconsidered and
laid upon the table at the meeting of March 25 (see page I4I).




FEBRUARY MEETING, I921


I35


Collection. On motion of Regent Leland this gift was accepted and the President was requested to express the thanks
of the Board to Mr. Stearns for this further evidence of his
generosity to the University.
The President notified the Regents that Mrs. Josephine
P. McGowan had sent an additional check of $500 for the
loan fund originally established by her in November, I9I5
(see page 30I, volume I914-I917). This additional gift was
accepted with the thanks of the Regents which the President
was asked to communicate.
Regent Clements took his seat.
Professor Victor H. Lane, as Executor of the Estate of
the late Mrs. Abigail F. Prescott, communicated to the Regents the fact that the fifth item in the will of Mrs. Prescott
made the following bequest:I give, devise and bequeath unto the Board of Regents
of the University of Michigan, the sum of six thousand dollars, in trust, however, for the founding of a scholarship in
Organic Chemistry, to be known as the "Albert B. Prescott
Scholarship in Organic Chemistry." This gift is upon the
condition that the income from such fund, only, shall be
paid the incumbent of such scholarship, and that the
appointee to such scholarship shall be nominated by the head
professor of Organic Chemistry after consultation with the
President of the University. Such nominations shall be
made as vacancies may occur, and shall be for such terms
as may, by such professor, after consultation with the President, be determined.
Professor Lane's communication stated that the money
was now on hand and would be paid over on receipt of notice
that the Regents had accepted the bequest. On motion of
Regent Leland the bequest was accepted in accordance with
its terms, and with the thanks of the Regents.
The President presented a letter from the Security Trust
Company, of Detroit, inquiring whether the Regents would
find acceptable the possible bequest of a sum of money for
the establishment of a chair or professorship of economic
geology, such chair or professorship to be designated by the
name of the donor and to continue for a period of thirty
years from and after the date of its establishment, the pro



I36


FEBRUARY MEETING, 192I


posed bequest providing further that the Security Trust
Company should serve as trustee and pay over the income
of the bequest to the Regents for the purpose and period
mentioned. On motion of Regent Leland the President was
requested to notify the Trust Company that such a bequest
would be accepted provided the income were sufficient to
support a full-time professor, that is, provided the income
should be, at least approximately, $5000 per annum.
The President presented correspondence from the Detroit Chapter of the American Red Cross tendering a check
for $375 to constitute a scholarship, to which it was desired
to have Mr. Gerald Ensing of Grand Rapids appointed with
stipend of $75 per month during the period when he is in
actual attendance at the University as a student in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. The tender was
accepted and Mr. Ensing was appointed under the conditions
stated.
On motion of Regent Leland the Board authorized the
registration as a student in the University of the Rev. P.
Wesley Dierberger at the annual fee of $io authorized for
teachers taking not over five hours' work. This action was
taken with the express understanding that it should not constitute a precedent.
On motion of Regent Sawyer the Board approved the
organization in the University of Infantry and Ordnance
Units of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps provided the
proper number of students offer themselves for enrollment.
The Board further authorized the Department of Military Science and Tactics to establish certain semi-practical
courses of instruction in Military subjects, in accordance
with the request of Professor Robert Arthur, Major
U. S. A.
On motion of Regent Hanchett the Board authorized
Dean Myra B. Jordan to attend the meeting of Collegiate
Alumnae to be held in Washington in April and the meeting of the Deans of Women to be held in Atlantic City during the general sessions of the National Educational Association, as official representative of the University with
traveling expenses, within $Ioo for each occasion, payable
by the University.




FEBRUARY MEETING, iz92


I37


The President presented an invitation from the University of Virginia to send a delegate to the celebration of the
one hundredth anniversary of its founding. On motion of
Regent Hanchett the invitation was accepted and the Board
requested the President himself to serve as such delegate if
he found it possible to do so.
On motion of Regent Clements the sum of $Iooo was
added to the budget of the General Library, to serve expressly for expenses of binding.
On motion of Regent Clements the Board approved a
change in the plans of the new University Hospital providing considerable additional sun room space at an added cost
of approximately $500.
On motion of Regent Leland and upon the recommendation of the Faculty of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture degrees were granted as follows:BACHELOR OFr SCIENCE IN 'ENGINEERING (CIVIL ENGINEERING)
Herald Floyd Hamill
BACHELOR oF SCIENCE N  NINEIN NIN RNG (MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING)
Herbert Lucien Dunham
Louis Arthur Plath (as of the class of (120)
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING (CHEMICAL,
ENGINEERING)
Bruce George Logan         John Vernon Orris
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ARCI-[ITECTUIRE (ARCHITECTURE)
Timothy Younglove Hewlett   Emil Gerhardt Jehle
On motion of Regent Beal the Board appointed Azariah
Smith Root Associate Professor of Library Methods and
Frank Keller Walter Associate Professor of Library AMethods, each with compensation of $6oo as provided in the
budget of the -Summer Session of 192I.
Regent Beal presented the report of Professor Ralph W.
Aigler, as Chairman of the Board in Control of Athletics,
for the year ended June 30, I920, which was received and
placed on file. This report presented among others the following facts:For the above period there were total receipts, inclusive
of $7,500 in loans, of $I33,251.45, and total disbursements,
inclusive of $32,500 in payments of loans and the shares of




138


FEBRUARY MEETING, I92I


receipts paid to visiting teams, of $I40,500.60. As usual, it
was evident from the report that the receipts of football
games, with a total attendance of 113,658, continue to be
the main source of income and that the surplus from this
sport makes it possible to carry the heavy deficits in the
other branches of athletics. January I, 1921:, the Athletic
Association had on hand $30,000 in time certificates of
deposit and approximately $Io,oco in its general account.
The report predicted that, after making reasonable allowance for expenses for the balance of the college year, the
Association would have on hand at the end of the current
year, a surplus in the neighborhood of $I5,000. The report
also contained a discussion of the losing football season of
1919 and the efforts made by the alumni which resulted in
the pronounced! change in the record of 1920. Comment on
the change for the better ini the viewpoint' of both alumni
and students as to the necessity for the University being
represented by an unbeaten team and the consequent raising
of the standards of sportsmanship is found in the report,
as well as a frank discussion of the inevitable danger of the
false standards fostered in the minds of prominent high
school athletes who have been induced to enter specific universities through a system of proselyting. The report states
that because of this class of evil the National Collegiate
Athletic Association, at its recent meeting in Chicago, unanimously adopted the following resolution:"That a Committee of Nine, one from each district,
be appointed to deal with charges of proselyting or eligibility, each of these men to acquaint himself with the
eligibility committees or arbitrators of the various conferences in his district, and also, so far as possible, with
the eligibility authorities of the several institutions in
his district not in organized conferences. Second, that
a Committee of Three, conveniently located geographically, be named as a cotrt of last resort for such cases
of proselyting or eligibility as are not cleared up by the
local conference authorities or district representatives."
An investigation along similar lines is now being conducted by a Committee of the Western Conference.
The report also contains a discussion of the necessity
for enlarging the seating capacity of Ferry Field and the
plans which have been adopted to add approximately 12,-00
seats. Following last year's report, which indicated a com



FEBRUARY MEETING, 192I


I39


mendable revival of intramural athletic activities, the current report discusses this phase of athletics and presents a
table showing that the number participating in intramural
activities has increased from 1,750 in I916-I917 to 3,054 in
1919-1920. This latter figure, it should be explained, does
not include any duplications and indicates that approximately
one-half of the men on the campus are interested in such
athletic activities. There is also found a discussion of the
so-called informal teams representing the University in
soccer, hockey, and swimming, and the statement that the
same rules of eligibility for the members of these teams are
applied as those applied in intercollegiate athletics.
On motion of Regent Leland the Board added the sum
of $250 to the budget of the Department of Philosophy to
provide an assistant in Logic for the second semester with.
compensation at the rate of $500 per year.
A communication from Dean Effinger, enclosing a letter
from Professor Wenley, recommending that Brand Blanchard be appointed Assistant Professor of Philosophy for the
University year 192I-I922, was, on motion of Regent Hanchett, referred to the Executive Committee with power.
Regent Beal read a letter addressed to the President by
Messrs. Harcourt, Brace & Howe, Publishers of Mr. W. B.
Shaw's new History of the University of Michigan, suggesting that the Regents consider the distribution of this
book among high schools. On motion of Regent Beal the
Secretary was requested to place the matter before the secretaries of the several local alumni associations of the University, with the favorable recommendation of the Board.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote except
where otherwise expressly stated.
The Board adjourned to Friday, March 25, I92I, at
9:30 A. M.
SHIRLEY W. SMITI-I,
Secretary




MARCH MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, MARCH 25, I92I
The Board met at the house of President Burton at 9:50
A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Clements, Regent Beal,
Regent Murfin, and Regent Leland. Absent, Regent Sawyer who later took his seat, Regent Hanchett, Regent Gore,
Regent Hubbard, and Superintendent Johnson.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board reconsidered
and laid upon the table its action at the February meeting
(see pages I33-I34) adopting a new schedule for Commencement Week including a morning hour for the Baccalaureate Service.
On motion of Regent Clements, the minutes of the meeting of February Io-II were approved except for the abovementioned item reconsidered, with certain specified minor
changes from the form in which the minutes had been submitted to the members in proof.
On motion of Regent Clements, it was voted to approve
the actions of the Executive Committee as recorded in the
following minutes of that Committee's meetings:February I8, 1921
Present, the entire Committee.
An increase of $250 for the second semester was authorized in the salary of Mrs. Elmie Mallory, Assistant in
the Homoeopathic Medical School at $500 per year, thus
fixing her annual rate at $Iooo.
February 21, I921
Present, the entire Committee.
Dean Lloyd requested that $200 be allowed for the
photographing of certain papyri. The Committee agreed
upon an appropriation of $125 for this purpose.




I42


i MARCH MEETING, 1921


February 28, I92I
Present, the entire Committee.
The Committee authorized an increase in the salary of
Acting Assistant Professor Charles C. Fries, Department
of English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
from $Iooo per year for half-time to $500o per year for
three-quarters time, for the second semester of the present
University year. This increase was allowed on account of
the large number of students enrolled in Course I.
March 14, I921
The Committee granted an addition of $60 to the budget
of the Appointment Committee. This increase was necessary because of an unforeseen increase in the enrollment.
An increase of $250 for the second semester was granted
to William IM. Trapp, Assistant in Philosophy. This increase was necessary in order to secure additional assistance
from Mr. Trapp to take care of additional work in the
department. This increase makes Mr. Trapp's rate for the
second semester $I300 per annum.
The Committee granted a leave of absence, with salary,
to Professor Nelville S. Hoff, College of Dental Surgery,
in order that Professor Hoff might, on recommendation
of his physician, go to Florida on account of ill health.
The Committee also granted a leave of absence, for
the month of March, with salary, to Mr. Norman A. Wood,
Curator of Birds in the University Museum, in order that
he might go to the Amherst College Museum for a month
to classify and arrange their collection of birds, Amherst
College to pay all of Mr. Wood's expenses and to allow
him to select a considerable number of specimens for our
own museum.
Such papers as were submitted in support of all the
above actions are filed with the minutes.
Regent Sawyer took his seat.
The Board discussed at length the building program of
the University as now before the Legislature. On motion
of Regent Murfin, the President, Regent Clements, and the
Secretary were authorized to take such action with respect
to this matter as in their judgment the interests of the University might require.
The President presented a letter from the Auditor General of the State calling attention to the depleted condition




MARCH MEETING, 1921


I43


of the State treasury as affecting the balances still due the
University under legislative appropriations. On motion of
Regent Clements, the financial situation thus involved was
referred to Regent Leland and the officers of the University
with the request to take up the matter with the State officials
at Lansing and to make such arrangements to meet the
emergency as might be wise and feasible.
The Secretary reported the following resignations, appointments and other changes in the University staff, as
authorized by the President under the legislation of the
Board (See page 23):Resignations and Declinations
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Botany
Ruth H. Hayes, half-time Assistant, resigned at close
of first semester.
Granville H. Evans, Assistant, resigned December 22,
1920.
Economics
Florence K. Middaugh, Assistant, resigned at close
of first semester.
Seward L. Horner, Laboratory Assistant in Accounting, resigned at close of first semester.
Physics
Jeannette Armstrong Goodale, Assistant, resigned at
close of first semester.
COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
Robert H. Ainsworth, Student Assistant, resigned at
close of first semester.
MEDICAL SCHOOL
Anatomy
Ernest E. Huber, Assistant, resigned February 28.
Internal Medicine
Theodore L. Squier, Instructor, resigned February 17.
CHEMISTRY
Chemical Laboratory
Arthur B. Otis, half-time Student Assistant, resigned
January 31.
Jack Raitt, half-time Dispensing Assistant, resigned
February 28.




144              MARCH     MEETING, I921
L. G. Devine, full-time Dispensing Assistant, resigned
January 31.
Eugene R. Eleson, half-time Student Assistant, resigned January 3I.
Adrian T. Hess, half-time Student Assistant, resigned
January 3I.
S. Lipman, half-time Student Assistant, resigned January 31.
COLLUGEG  O DENTAL SURGERY
Floyd B. Crill, Demonstrator, resigned March 17.
BARBOUR GYMNASIUM
Doris Wardner, Teaching Assistant in Physical Education, resigned February I.
LIBRARY
Esther Mercer, Assistant in the Medical Reading Room,
resigned February I9.
Ernest D. Siefert, Assistant in Graduate Reading Room
No. 4, resigned February I9.
MILITARY SCIENCE AND TACTICS
Ernest S. Shepard, half-time Assistant, resigned January 27.
Appointments
COLLEGE O LITEIRATURE. SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Botany
Mildred Harris, Assistant, vice Ruth Hayes, resigned,
second semester, $300 per year.
Vernon P. Johnson, Assistant, vice Granville H. Evans,
resigned, second semester, $300 per year.
Economics
Alfred E. Lindbloom, Assistant, vice Florence K. Middaugh, resigned, second semester, $250 per year.
Leo A. Schmidt, Laboratory Assistant in Accounting,
vice Seward L. Horner, resigned, second semester, $400
per year.
*E. C. Wightman, Special Instructor in Insurance Accounting, second semester, $250 for the semester.
Mineralogy
Fred Bartlett, Assistant, second semester, $500 per year.
George S. Buchanan, Assistant, second semester, $200
per year.
Fred B. Kniffen, Assistant, second semester, $200 per
year.




MARCH MEETING, 1921                        I45
Philosophy
Jean Nutter, Assistant, second semester, $500 per year.
Physics
Almond G. Fairchild, Assistant, vice Jeannette Armstrong Goodale, resigned, second semester, $600 per year.
Political Science
M. E. M. Martin, Assistant, second semester, $400 per
year.
COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
Architecture
Harold A. Beam, Teaching Assistant, second semester,
$450 per year.
Delbert D. Ehresman, Student Assistant, vice Robert
H. Ainsworth, resigned, second semester, $Ioo per year.
Grayson W. Gill, Teaching Assistant, second semester,
$350 per year.
John H. Pielemeier, Teaching Assistant, second semester, $600 per year.
John E. Somppi, Teaching Assistant, second semester,
$450 per year.
Chemical Engineering
Howard D. Grant, under-graduate Assistant, second
semester, $250 per year.
Electrical Engineering
Wilbur E. Cook, Student Assistant, second semester,
$112.50 per year.
Engineering Mechanics
Abraham S. Neiman, Student Assistant, second semester, $125 per year.
Mechanical Engineering
Myron L. Begeman, Teaching Assistant, February I5 to
June 30, $750 per year.
Surveying
George R. Clemens, Student Assistant, second semester,
$250 per year.
Joseph P. Winchell, Student Assistant, second semester, $500 per year. This supercedes Mr. Winchell's appointment as Student Assistant at $250 per year.
MEDICAL SCHOOL
Anatomy
Melville A. Goldsmith, Assistant, vice Ernest E. Huber,
resigned, from March I to June 30, $Ioo per month.




146              MAzRCH    MEETING, 192I
Bacteriology
Robert S. Breakey, Assistant, from March I to June
30, $75 per month.
Clarence H. Crego, Jr., Assistant, from March I to
June 30, $75 per month.
Orla H. Gillett, Assistant, from  March I to June 30,
$37.50 per month.
Pathology
Sophia Hartman, Technical Assistant, from February
o0, $oo000 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Phanrnacology
James C. McClure, Assistant, second semester, $800
per year.
Ralph O. Rychener, Assistant, second semester, $800
per year.
William A. Smith, Assistant, second semester, $800
per year.
Edward A. Wishropp, Assistant, second semester,.$800
per year.
Roentgenology
H. F. Minkley, temporarily appointed Assistant Technician, from February I5, $Ioo per month.
CHEMISTRY
Cheiical Laboratory
J. O. Arrowsmith, second Assistant to the Director,
second semester, without salary.
Allen R. Fox, half-time Dispensing Assistant, vice Jack
Raitt, resigned, from March I to June 30, $25 per month.
Edgar Meads, full-time Dispensing Assistant, vice L.
G. Devine, resigned, from February I, $Ioo per month.
~Woodard Neithammer, half-time Student Assistant, vice
Eugene R. Eleson, resigned, from February I to June 30,
$25 per month.
W. H. Older, half-time Student Assistant, vice Adrian
T. Hess, resigned, from February I to June 30, $25 per
month.
H. E. Ritz, half-time Student Assistant, vice S. Lipman
resigned, from February I to June 30, $25 per month.
General and Physical Chemistry
Eugene R. Eleson, Laboratory Assistant, second semester, $50 per year.
Bennett L. Heath, Laboratory Assistant, second semester, $I50 per year.




MARCH MEETING, I92I.147


Arnold E. Pratt, Laboratory Assistant, second semester, $50 per year.
Organic Chemistry
Glenn E. Cantwell, Laboratory Assistant, second semester, $200 per year.
Donald L. Tabern, Teaching Assistant, second semester, $600 per year. This appointment supercedes Mr. Tabern's appointment as Laboratory Assistant at $200 per year.
LAW SCHOOL
William H. Faust, Lecturer in Admiralty Law, $350.
COLLEGE OF PHARMACY
Leonard R. Wagener, Assistant, second semester, $200
per year.
T. Waldo Blackmer, Assistant, second semester, $200
per year.
Elmer L. Hammond, Assistant, second semester, no
salary.
LIBRARY
John R. Dickinson, Assistant at the Corridor Desk, vice
Lewis R. Williams, promoted, from February 21, $goo per
year, twelve-months' basis.
Nancy B. Thomas, temporary Assistant in the Graduate Reading Room, vice Agnes C. Fries, on leave, from
March 8, $IIoo per year, twelve-months' basis.
Donald J. Thorp, Assistant in Graduate Reading Room
No. 4, vice Ernest D. Siefert, resigned, from February 2I,
$IIoo per year, twelve-months' basis.
MILITARY SCIENCE AND TACTICS
Kingsley S. Anderson, half-time Assistant, vice Ernest
S. Shepard, resigned, from February 14 to June 30, $37.50
per month.
BARBOUR GYMNASIUM
Doris Ewing, Teaching Assistant in Physical Education from March 22 to June 30, $120 per month.
UNIVERSITY EXTENSION SERVICE
W. R. Humphreys, Professor, appointed to give a twohour course in English, Course 25, Literary Interpretation
of the Bible, in Jackson, Michigan, second semester, $365
for the course.
A. E. Wood, Professor, appointed to give a two-hour
course in Sociology, Course 29, Community Problems, in
Detroit, Michigan, second semester, $375 for the course.




148


MARCH MEfETING, I92I


Isador Lubin, Instructor, appointed to give a twohour course in Political Economy, Course I-X, Principles
of Political Economy, in Detroit, second semester, $185
for the course.
FELLOWSHIPS
Ruth Harriet Hayes, appointed to the Whittier Fellowship, second semester, stipend of $250.
Promotions
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Botany
Egbert H. Walker, advanced from part time Assistant
to full time Assistant, second semester, $300 per year.
MEDICAL SCHOOL
Internal Medicine
P. L. Marsh, from Medical Resident at $Iooo per year
to Instructor at $1500 per year, from February 21.
LIBRARY
Lewis R. Williams, promoted from Assistant at Corridor Desk to Assistant in Study Hall, vice Elana K. Taylor, promoted, $IIoo per year, twelve-months' basis, from
February 21.
Elana K. Taylor, promoted from    Assistant in Study
Hall to Assistant in Medical Reading Room, vice Esther
Mercer, resigned, from February 21, $1200 per year, twelvemonths' basis.
Salary Adjustments
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
History
C. H. Karraker, Teaching Assistant, salary increased
for the second semester from $500 per year to $700 per year.
MEDICAL SCHOOL
Internal Medicine
Cecil Corley, Instructor, salary increased from $I5oo
per year to $2000 per year, from February 21.
CHEMISTRY
General and Physical Chemistry
DeWitt B. Bell, Laboratory Assistant, salary increased,
for the second semester from $150 to $200 per year, hours
increased from 12 to 16.




MARCH MlIEETING, I92I


149


John S. France, Laboratory Assistant, salary increased
for the second semester from $Ioo per year to $I50 per
year, hours increased from 8 to 12.
Richard A. Nugent, Laboratory Assistant, salary increased for the second semester from $Ioo per year to $I5o
per year, hours increased from 8 to 12.
Donald Lamb, Laboratory Assistant, salary decreased
for the second semester, from $I50 per year to $Ioo per
year, hours decreased from 12 to 8.
COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY
J. Dwight Glover, Demonstrator, placed on half-time
basis instead of full-time, from March 2I to June 30, salary
$75 per month.
Leave of Absence
LIBRARY
Agnes C. Fries, Assistant in the Graduate Reading
Room, granted an indefinite leave of absence on account of
ill health, from March 5, without pay.
The resignation of Dr. Victor C. Vaughan as Dean and
Professor of Hygiene and Physiological Chemistry in the
Medical School was presented together with a resolution
passed by the Faculty of the Medical School.
It was voted, on motion of Regent Murfin, that the resignation both as Dean and Professor be accepted with deep
regret to take effect on J.une 30, I92I, and the following
resolution  presented by Regent Sawyer, expressing the
Board's appreciation of Dean Vaughan's life-long service
to the University and to medical education was unanimously
adopted:Resolved, That with the acceptance of Dr. Victor C.
Vaughan's resignation as Dean of the Medical School and
Professor of Hygiene and Physiological Chemistry, the
Regents give expression to their deep appreciation of his
long and distinguished service to the University and to
medical education, and of his contributions to science.
The world recognition of him as an administrator and
a worker in the field of research has been a large factor in
placing the Medical School in a position of first importance
and standing.
Honored by membership in international and national
scientific and social welfare bodies, and having held a high
office in many of them, he has had a rare opportunity for




150


MARCH MEETING, 1921


influence and vision in race progress and betterment. Responding to his country's call, he has in two wars acted as
a valued adviser and investigator, and by his aid in the
determination of the causes of disease and the application
of corrective measures, helped to bring about the greatly
reduced morbidity and mortality. Few men can measure
up to his attainments and accomplishments, and the international estimate of them.
Resolved, further, That the Board of Regents wishes
for him a happy relief from his arduous labors, and his
continued interest in the Medical School, for the success
of which he has so long been responsible.
It was further voted that the Board record its understanding and appreciation of the point of view set forth in
the resolution of the Faculty and express its desire to cooperate fully with Dean Vaughan in any scientific work in
which he may engage after his retirement from active service and officially tender to him the use of his laboratory in
the Medical Building.
It was further voted that the President be authorized
to communicate with the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching applying for a retiring allowance
for Dean Vaughan.
On motion of Regent Beal, Mr. Albert Ray Newsome
was appointed Instructor in History for the year I92I-1922
with a salary of $I8oo, vice Henry J. Ryskamp, not a candidate for reappointment.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the salary of Mrs. F. P.
Allen, Stenographer in the Department of Roentgenology,
was increased from $75 per month to $90 per month to date
from January I. This action added $90 to the budget of
the Department.
The Secretary reported informally with respect to the
general financial situation of the University.
The Board took up the communications received from
Dean Lloyd embodying a plan for facilitating research and
improved teaching in all departments of the University (see
page I29). On motion of Regent Clements, the plan received
the approval of the Board in accordance with the finally revised provisions of Dean Lloyd's communication, as
follows:



MARCH MEETING, 192I


I 5


Some time ago, with the unanimous endorsement of
the Executive Board of the Graduate School, a plan for
"facilitating research and improving teaching in all departments of study in the University" was submitted for
action of the Regents. Action, as I understand, was several
times postponed. Finally, at the suggestion of Regent Hanchett, Chairman of the Regents' Committee on the Promotion of Research, certain changes were requested in the
form of the plan and in accordance with this request the
changes have been made, as indicated in the revised statement submitted below, the changes being in sections 4 and 5
and in the addition of a new section, No. 7, and being
marked with blue pencil. The plan, then, as revised, follows:At the present time, in most universities, including the
University of Michigan, productive research and successful teaching, both essential to a vigorous and efficient university education, interfere with each other. Research is
halted and teaching is made restless and dissatisfied simply
because- there is little distinct provision for the former,
and, this provision lacking, unreasonable expectation from
the latter.
For progress in education, as well as for other appropriate public services, the universities must both advance
knowledge more efficiently and provide trained and informed teachers and investigators in larger number than
ever before. They cannot, moreover, look with indifference
on the recent establishment of separate, non-educational
research institutes. These institutes draw away from the
universities men of special interests and abilities whom the
universities need. Not only are research and teaching essential to a vigorous and efficient university education;
also, they are essential to each other. Without their constant association and interchange education must lose vitality. A university that includes among its teachers competent investigators and original thinkers without providing them with adequate opportunity for research and investigation is failing seriously in one of its primary purposes.
The proposal here drawn up would, then, make distinct
provision for research at the University of Michigan, and
in making such provision it would improve teaching as well
as foster original investigation. It would keep both at the
University while correcting the interference from which




152


MARCH MEETING, 192I


both have been suffering.  Special research appointments
from the teaching staffs, relief or partial relief from classroom and the general laboratory for stated periods, and
co-operation in publication are among the means by which
these purposes may be served.
Accordingly, it is here proposed:I. That all gifts or endowments in support of this
plan for research and improved teaching or of publication of the results of research be made to and leld
in trust by the Regents of the University of Michigan.
2. That, so soon as the necessary organization for
what is here contemplated has been completed and the
resources called for have been secured, any department
in the University may apply to the Executive Board
of the Graduate School for establishment of a Research
Division and that, if, in the opinion of the Board, the
conditions so warrant, such a Research Division be
proposed by the Board to the Regents of the University for approval and establishment by them.
3. That, in each Research Division created by the
Regents as above provided, there be appointed, whenever possible, one or more Research Professors and
one or more Research Associates and one or more
Research Fellows, the period of appointment in each
case being one year or, in special cases, one semester.
Any holder of any such research position may be reappointed. While usually appointments, as here intended,
are to be from the teaching staff, the appointee may
at times come from among scholars and scientists not
in the service of the University. Appointees from the
teaching staff shall be regarded as absent on leave for.purposes of research and shall receive salaries equal
to those they would receive if not appointed to the
Research Division; except that, on recommendation
of the Executive Board, Research Fellows may sometimes receive some increase in their usual salaries.
None of these appointees shall be required to give instruction to any but Fellows or other approved graduate students. They may, however, if they so wish,
give other instruction in a limited amount, provided
the cost of such instruction be not met by the research
foundation and the salaries paid by the foundation be
reduced by the amount of the cost in each case. All
appointments are to be made by the Regents on nomi



MARCH MEETING, I921


I53


nation of the Executive Board and upon appointment
the appointees will become members of the Research
Division of the Graduate School as well as of the Research Divisions in their several subjects of specialization.  Finally, Fellows of the National Research
Council may be received and be given all the privileges
of regular appointees, and Fellows may be appointed
also from among properly prepared graduate students
with fellowships carrying the annual stipend of about
twelve hundred dollars whenever money is available
for such appointment.
4. That the Research Divisions in the different
departments of study have at their disposal, under conditions approved by the University, all the resources
for study and investigations that the University affords,
libraries, laboratories, museums, etc.
5. That'there be created by the Executive Board
for each Research Division a Research Committee composed of the Research Professors and Associates. This
committee, when appointed, shall submit to the Executive Board for approval and upon approval for communication to the Regents, all further nominations for
appointment to its particular Division.  There shall
also be available for expenditure at the discretion of
the Board of Regents, upon the recommendation of the
Research Committee, any money that may be given
specifically for work in the particular field which it
represents.
6. That the results of all researches be considered
as public property, publishable by the University at
such time and in such way as it may determine and
that to these ends the Research Committee of each
Division have as one of its special duties the supervision of preparation of the results for publication and
that, with the other monies to be raised, money be
secured for defraying the expenses of publication in
such manner as may be determined upon in each case.
The Executive Board of the Graduate School, on application from the different Divisions, should make recommendations to the Board of Regents regarding appropriations from this fund. If in any case money has
been given specifically for publications of a particular
Division, the Board's supervision can then be only generally editorial, the purpose of it being to secure reason



I54


MARCH MEETING, 1921


able uniformity in methods and standards of publication.
7. That, to the end of carrying out the proposals
here made, Research Units be authorized by the Board
of Regents, each comprising, whenever possible, one
Research Professor, one Research Associate, and two
Research Fellows. An endowment of $300,000 is suggested as desirable for each such Unit. Such a sum
at 5% would yield an annual income of $I5,000, to be
appropriated about as follows: Professor, $6,ooo; Associate, $4,500; two Fellows, $4,000.  Subject to the
action of the Board of Regents, any balances remaining
may be used for materials, books or aid in publication,
or even, should the amount suffice, for fellowships.
The Units in some instances, it is thought, should be
provided for without restriction as to the subject of
research, assignment to particular subjects in such instances being left to the Executive Board.  Money,
however, may be received for creation of a Unit or
Units in any specified subject.
8. That, while specific Research Units, each comprising four persons, as indicated in the preceding paragraph, have been recommended, it be nevertheless understood that money may be received by the Board of
Regents in any amount for support of any part of such
Unit or of any of the purposes included in this plan as
a whole.
Correspondence was received from the Dean of the
Graduate School and the Librarian urging that provision
be made for the acquisition by the University of
an appropriate share of the results of the Egyptian expedition being carried on by the British Museum with participation by various American and foreign universities for
the recovery of ancient Egyptian papyri and other objects
of historical interest now likely to disappear forever through
commercial and agricultural operations under way in Egypt
as a result of the war.    On motion of Regent Clements,
the Board authorized an expenditure of not to exceed $2000
for this purpose. The vote upon this action was as follows:
Aye, Regent Clements, Regent Beal, Regent Murfin, and
Regent Sawyer. No, Regent Leland.
The following communication was received from        Pro



MARCH     MEETING, 1921                  155
fessor Albert M. Barrett (see Regents' Proceedings I917 -1920, page 959).
TO THE BOARD O: REGENTS:At a meeting held on February Io, 1921, the Board
of Trustees of the State Psychopathic Hospital approved
the following, and respectfully submit the matter to the
Board of Regents of the University of Michigan for their
consideration:That the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan request the General Educational Board to provide the
University of Michigan with an endowment of $200,000 for
the teaching of psychiatry in the Medical School of the
University.  The income from  this shall be expended
for the payment of the salary of the Professor of Psychiatry now provided by the University of Michigan and for
the teaching of psychiatry, and for the establishment of a
graduate fellowship in psychiatry. It is understood that if
this is granted, the University will continue the present
appropriation now devoted to the teaching of psychiatry,
this to be expended for the payment of salaries of an Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, the Assistant Professor of
Neuro-pathology, and additional assistants in the Department of Psychiatry.
Respectfully,
ALBERT M. BARRETT,
Medical Director
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board approved and
authorized a communication to the     General Educational
Board in accordance with the recommendation of the Trustees of the State Psychopathic Hospital.
On motion of Regent 'Murfin, leave of absence for the
University year I92I-I922 was voted to Professor Edward
R. Turner, with salary of $2500 while on leave. To care
for Professor Turner's work in his absence Professor
Albert B. White, of the University of Minnesota, was appointed Professor of History for the University year I921 -1922 with salary of $5000.
On motion of Regent Leland, the sum of $400 was added
to the current expense budget of Internal Medicine.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board declined to
take action at this time looking toward the acquiring of




156


MARCHI MA'ETING, I92I


additional vacant lands in the vicinity of Ann Arbor for the
use of the Department of Surveying.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to
establish a deposit fee of $2 to be paid by students using
drawing tables in the College of Architecture.
A communication was received from the Executive Staff
of the University Hospital strongly urging that a hospital
expense of $I500 be authorized in co-operation with the
Michigan State Board of Health in caring for certain
patients in the Department of Syphilology. On motion of
Regent Leland, this authority was given.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Regents approved and
enacted the recommendation of the Board in Control of
Athletics that that portion of the resolution of November
I9, I9I0 (see Regents' Proceedings 19I0-I94, page 20) as
corrected December 21, IQIO (see same volume page 33),
constituting the Board in Control of Athletics be amended
so that the provision for student membership in the Board
in Control should read as follows:Three students to be elected by the male members of
the Athletic Association upon nomination by the Board of
Directors of said Association (said body to nominate six
candidates) or by petition signed by at least three hundred
such members.
The President presented correspondence between himself, Regent Sawyer, and Dr. Udo J. Wile, the substance of
which was that the resolution adopted by the Regents at the
Dec ember meeting (see page 70) with respect to full-time
chairs in the clinical services of the University Hospital,
was not to be understood as intending that present occupants of these clinical chairs on a part-time basis should
be disturbed in their professorships before such time as the
full-time plan has, in operation, proved itself to be a successful venture in medical education. On motion of Regent
Clements, the Board approved the interpretation expressed
in the correspondence.
At this point the Board took a recess for lunch.




MARCH MEETING, I921


157


AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at the Regents' Room at I:15
P. M.
Present, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer,
Regent Clements, and Regent Murfin. Absent, the President, Regent Hanchett, Regent Gore, Regent Hubbard, and
Superintendent Johnson.
On motion of Regent Leland, Regent Clements was
elected to preside throughout the session.
A request was received from the Y. M. C. A. National
Committee on Friendly Relations Among Foreign Students
for the establishment in the University of scholarships and
other provisions for the registration at nominal expense of a
certain number of Russian students now in this country.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to take
such action.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board declined to
authorize the registration as a resident of Michigan of Mr.
Clair K. Searles, a student in the Graduate School.
In accordance with authority given at the February
meeting (see page 121) the Secretary reported for the
President and himself that the sum of $623.04 had been
expended in adapting the offices formerly occupied by the
Dean of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
to the use of the Dean of Students, and that $II65.65 had
been expended for furniture and equipment for such offices.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board formally approved
this action.
On motion of Regent Leland, the sum of $6o0 was
added to the current expense budget of the Department of
Otolaryngology.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board changed the
daily rate provided in the proposal for the care of United
States Public Health Service patients in the University
Hospital from $3.50 per day to $3 per day (see page o09).
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board allowed not to
exceed $50 to cover the expenses of Miss Marion 0. Wood
while in attendance as a delegate from this University to
the annual meeting of the Physical Education Association




I5 


MARCH MEETING, 1921


of the Middle West to be held in Cleveland from     April
21 to 23.
Dean Bates communicated to the Board the gift from
Mr. Eugene E. Prussing, of Chicago, of the Law class of
1878, of a large portrait of Judge Thomas M. Cooley, the
portrait being the original drawing of Thomas Nast, Jr.
The gift was accepted on motion of Regent Murfin with the
thanks of the Regents.
The following communication was received:'To the Honorable, the Board of Regents
of the University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEMN:I have the pleasure of asking you to accept for use as
a residence for women of the University the Cheever home
at 516 Madison Street. The late owner, Miss Pamela A.
Noble, in her will, devised this to me as executor, with
directions to convey it to the University as soon as satisfactory arrangements could be made. She desired it to be
named in honor of her sister-"The Adelia Cheever Residence Hall."
I shall be very glad to make the transfer as soon as
your Board is ready to make the necessary arrangements
to put the property to its intended use.
Very respectfully,
EDWIN C. GODDARD
March I4, I921
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board accepted the
bequest with profound thanks.
Dr. Orma F. Butler communicated to the Board a gift
from  Miss Carrie Frieze, of Ann Arbor, daughter of the
late Professor Henry Simmons Frieze, consisting of miscellaneous correspondence, diaries, engravings, etc. On
motion of Regent Murfin, this gift was accepted with the
thanks of the Regents and the Librarian was formally designated as its custodian.
Professor Alexander G. Ruthven communicated to the
Regents the fact that Mr. E. B. Williamson, of Bluffton,
Indiana, Honorary Curator of Odonata in the Museum,
desired to send at his own expense a scientific collector to
Florida to secure specimens for the Museum and that Mr.




MARCH MEETING, 192I


I59


Williamson had also made a money contribution of $25 for
the publications of the Museum      of Zoology.    Professor
Ruthven further notified the Regents of gifts of $307 from
Dr. Bryant Walker, of Detroit, and of $Ioo from Dr. William W. Newcomb, of Detroit, toward the Museum printing
fund. On motion of Regent Murfin, the Regents expressed
to these donors their appreciation of this continued generous support of the Museum.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the following appointments and changes in the teaching staff of the Summer
Session as recommended by Dean Kraus were approved by
the Board on the usual condition that they were within the
budget as already voted.
COLLEGE Or LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Ecoomnics                               Hours Salary
Instructor Ross G. Walker.................64  $283.34
(The appointment of Professor William A.
Paton to be cancelled)
English
Assistant Professor Charles C. Fries.........64  366.67
(The  appointment of Professor Samuel
Moore to be cancelled)
Geology and Geography
Instructor Kenneth C. McMurry...........96     425.00
Physics
Instructor Paul H. Geiger..................48  212.50
(The appointment of Instructor Arthur L.
Becker to be cancelled)
Romance Languages
Instructor Harry C. Barnett.................64  283.34
Instructor Henry D. Learned...............96   425.00
Instructor Joseph N. Lincoln................96  425.00
COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
Architecture
Instructure Jean Paul Slusser................96  $425.00
MEDICAL SCHOOL
Bacteriology
Assistant Professor Phillip B. Hadley........90  412.50
Instructor Albert P. Ohlmacher..............90  3 8.75




J6o


oMARCH MEETING, 192I


Medicine
Assistant Professor Albert D. Wickett........go
Assistant Professor John T. Connell.........90
Physiological Chemistry
Instructor E. B. McKinley................. go


412.50
412.50
318.75


On motion of Regent Murfin and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the Law School the
degree of Bachelor of Laws was voted to the following:Wallace Clare Hall, A.B. I916 Christian Frederick Matthews,
Olive Scott-Johnson, A.B.    A.B. I919
Oberlin College I9II     Robert Foster Matthews
Walter Oscar Red Johnson,  Henry W. Smith
A.B. I917                Donald Lansdale Wood, A.B.
Center College 1917
On motion of Regent Beal and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture degrees were voted as follows:

BACHELOR Or SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING (CIVIL ENGINEERING)
George Carlton Brown         Hermann Kerst Grunwaldt
Merritt Bruch                Raymundo Lopez
Shur Fund Chan               Stanley Iven Pinel
Robert Cook                  Howard Willard Slack
Charles Kenneth Sigvert Dodd Edward Young


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING (MECHANICAL ENGINEERING)
Lathrop Fielding Berry      Miles Eddowes Goll
Charles Alexander Brown     John Mead Kerr
Frank Perry Brown           James Francis Newell
Edgar Stanton Chipman       Alban Joseph St. Amour
Irving Bowne Clark          Demetrius Samuel Sherotsky
Arthur Davis


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING  (ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING)


Alward Embury Brown
Otto Conrad Davidson, Jr.
William Jasper Mergard


Bruce Sherman Moulton
Clark H. Pasmore, A.B., Albion
College
Leon Arthur Sears




MARCH MEETING, 192I


i61


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING (CHEMICAL ENGINEERING)
Thomas Colby Anderson     Joseph Musser Miller
Charles Philip Beath      Donald Knight Mirrielees
Vernon Delameter          Meade Winthrop Patterson
William Ronald Frazer     Aubrey Allyn Young
Stanley Tilton Lowe
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING (NAVAL ARCHITECTURE
AND MARINE ENGINEERING)
Theodore Henry Keidanz    Jarl Evert Larson
Nisa Faulkner Sato
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ARCHITECTURE (ARCHITECTURAL
ENGINEERING)
R. V. Gay                 Samuel Popkins
On motion of Regent Sawyer, and in accordance with
the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Pharmacy, the degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist was voted to
Harold Jay Thorburn.
A request was received from Director E. D. Campbell
that the net sum received by the Treasurer for the sale of
Chemical Laboratory tickets during the second semester
should be added to the current expense fund of the Chemical Laboratory. On motion of Regent Leland this request
was denied. After consideration of the number of elections
in laboratory courses in Chemistry during the present year
and of the high prices still.obtaining in the field of laboratory chemicals and apparatus, on motion of Regent Leland
the sum of $6ooo was added to the Chemical Laboratory
budget. The vote upon this action was aye, Regent Leland,
Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, and Regent Clements. No,
Regent Murfin.
A request was received from Dean Cooley for an allowance of $I89 to purchase various items required in the gas
laboratory. On motion of Regent Leland, the Board approved the purchase of these items out of the Chemical
Laboratory current expense fund.
A communication was received from Dean Cooley recommending, to meet conditions of the present year, two sessions of the 'Summer Surveying Camp, extending from
June 6 to July 29 and from August I to September 23, re



I62


MARCH MEETING, 1921


spectively. On motion of Regent Leland this request was
referred to the President with power.
Upon motion of Regent Beal, and in accordance with
the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, degrees and certificates were
voted as follows:BACHELOR OF ARTS


William Gortner Bade
Robert Berman
Reinhold Erwin Boes
Edwin Charles Bowers
**Geraldine Brasie
Charles Guernsey Coit
Valois Earl Crossley
Maxymilian Jozef Czaderski
Wade Everett DeVries
Herman Jenner DeLano
Aubrey Herman Dornan
Milton Franklin Ellison
William Peter Fortune
Bruce Albert Garland
Frederick Marvin Greenwood
Rudolph Habermann
Max Halperin
Charles Clare Hamill, Jr.
Anna Cornelia Hamilton
Frederic Davenport Heisordt
John Walter Hindes
Seward Leigh Horner
*William Henry Howe
Nina Lauretta Jermain
James Alexander Kennedy, Jr.
Robert Bass Kerr
*Helen Mary Kurtti
Donald Orland Larkins


Archie George Leonard
Fred R. Matthews
Carl Frank Mayer
Robert Franklin Miller
Leila Elizabeth Newell
Lee Ray Omans
Warren Crippen Parmenter
Edward Thomas Pheney
Herbert Per Roos
Hilliard Edward Rosenthal
(as of the class of 1920)
Howard Fenno Patterson
Jay Howard Payne, Jr.
Arthur Simon Purdy
Morgan Ramsay
Lake Erie Rariden
Jacob Ellis Rosenberg
Morrison Webster Scofield
Paul Alfred Shinkman
Orville McKinley Southard
Frederic William Sullivan
Archie Leroy Swift
Marie Edna Thorpe
Clara Irene Tubbs
Joseph Wren Turner
Lyndly Andrus Walkling
Grace Clark Webb
Kai-Hung Wu


CANDIDATES FOR THE TEACHER'S DIPLOMA


Anna Cornelia Hamilton
Nina Lauretta Jermain
Donald Orland Larkins
Archie George Leonard
* With Distinction.
** With High Distinction.


Fred R. Matthews
Marie Edna Thorpe
Clara Irene Tubbs




MARCH MEETING, 192I


163


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN FORESTRY)
Alvin Darwin Maulbetsch   Francis Xavier Schumacher
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN MIEDICINE)
Harry Edward August       Noel Franklin Shambaugh
William Lloyd Kemp
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CERTIFICATE
Reinhold Erwin Boes       Carl Frank Mayer
Milton Franklin Ellison   Robert Franklin Miller
Rudolph Habermann         Arthur Simon Purdy
Frederic Davenport Heisordt  Frederic William Sullivan
William Henry Howe
The Secretary filed a report detailing the cost of the
erection and furnishing of the Betsy Barbour House in
accordance with the agreement with former Regent Levi
L. Barbour (see Regents' Proceedings I917-I92Q, pages
779-780). The report showed the cost of the building as
$I67,568.95 and of the furnishings as $42,17.I16, total $215,340.II. Against these expenditures were total proceeds
from Mr. Barbour's gifts applicable to the purpose, of $I78,635.40, and the sum of $20,000 appropriated by the Regents
February 20, 1920 (see Regents' Proceedings I917-I920,
pages 862-863).
On motion of Regent Murfin, the report was approved
and the sum of $16,704.71 was accordingly appropriated to
cover the balance of the cost.
The Secretary presented a letter from the Assistant
Superintendent of the Engineering Shops suggesting that
the Shops could, with educational advantage to the student
body and to the financial advantage of the several state
institutions, do more or less foundry work for such institutions. This suggestion was referred to the President and
Secretary with power.
The Secretary notified the Regents that the city assessor
had insisted on continuing upon the tax roll the property
deeded to the University by Mr. H. H. Herbst (see Regents'
Proceedings I917-I920 pages 176-180), and that notice had
been given Mr. Herbst that such properties would be sold
for taxes of I918 on May 3, next, if such taxes with accumu



I64


MARCH MEETING, 1921


lated penalties were not paid before that date. While the
Regents at their meeting of June 25, I918, (see Regents'
Proceedings 1917-1920 page 300) had directed that should
assessment be levied against this property the tax should be
paid by the University under protest, Cavanaugh & Burke,
Attorneys of the Board, now recommended that previous
to the payment proceedings should be taken in the Circuit
Court with the purpose of obtaining an order striking this
property from the list of property to be sold for delinquent
taxes. Upon motion of Regent Murfin, the Board formally
authorized the proceeding recommended by the attorneys.
The Secretary reported the serious illness of.Mrs. Isabel
Kline, Assistant to the Treasurer. On motion of Regent
Murfin, the Board granted to Mrs. Kline a leave of absence
with pay for three months from the date when she was
compelled to give up her duties.
The Secretary notified the Regents of the formal request
of Mrs. -Dora B. Gates and Mrs. Harriet E. Sanders, respectively the widow and the mother of the late Dr. W. C.
Gates, that the University of Michigan accept appointment
as trustee of their estate as life tenants under the will, the
University having interest in this estate as remainderman
(see Regents' Proceedings 19I7-I920, page 986). On motion
of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to accept such trusteeship and suggested to Mrs. Gates and Mrs. Sanders and
their representatives that they arrange with a suitable trust
company to act in this capacity.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to authorize the registration of Mrs. Grace Greenwood Browne
for part-time work at the teachers' part-time fee.
A communication was received from Dr. C. G. Parnall
stating that certain payments were likely to be received
from, the Michigan Mutual Liability Insurance Company
for the services of University Hospital internes in that Company's hospital in Detroit and suggesting that these payments should be held as a fund to be disbursed for such
items as might appear proper to the Medical Director of
the University Hospital which were not provided in the
regular budget. On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board
authorized the acceptance of these payments for the purpose stated, with the understanding that they should go as




MARCH MEETING, 1921


i65


a trust fund to the University Treasurer, to be accounted
for by him in the regular procedure for such funds.
A communication was received signed by a large number of prominent representatives of the press of Michigan
urging consideration by the Regents of the establishment
of a department of Journalism. On motion of Regent
Murfin, the Board formally received this communication
with an expression of appreciation to the signers for directing its attention to this important matter.
On motion of Regent Leland, a sum not in excess of
$225 was set aside to meet the expenses of labeling, packing,
and transporting a collection of American archaeology
offered to the University by Phillips Academy, in Andover,
Massachusetts. The vote upon this action was as follows:
Aye, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, and
Regent Clements. No, Regent Murfin.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the sum of $400 was transferred from the salary budget of the College of Pharmacy
to the current expense account of that College.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board approved the
new requirements for graduation from the College of
Pharmacy, as recommended by the Faculty of that College,
as follows:COLLEGE OF PHARMACY
REQUIREMENTS FOR GRADUATION
THREE YEAR COURSE
Leading to the Degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist
The Degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist is conferred
upon students who have earned ninety-three (93) hours of
credit including the completion of the following prescribed
program of studies:
FIRST YEAR
Subject    Hours Credit   Subject    Hours Credit
Botany Ip           3     Pharmacgonosy I     4
Chemistry 2b        5     Chemistry 3p        7
English I           4     Chemistry 4         2
Pharmacy I          4     Economics 38p       2
i6                        I5




i66


f MARCH MEETING, 1921


Chemistry IO
Chemistry 42
German I
Pharmacognosy II


SECOND YEAR
4      Pharmacy 7
2      Mineralogy I
4     German I I
5     Hygiene I


7
2
4
3
i6


Chemistry 5
Pharmacy 5
Pharmacy 4
Pharmacy 2


15
THIRD
5
5
3
2


YEAR
Pharmacology I
Pharmacy 6
Pharmacy 3
Bacteriology 2


4
4
3
5
i6


I5


FOUR YEAR COURSE
Leading to the Degree of Bachelor of Science
(in Pharmacy)
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Pharmacy is
conferred upon students who have earned one hundred and
twenty-four (124) hours of credit including the completion
of the following prescribed program of studies.


First Semester
Chemistry 2b
Botany Ip
Pharmacy I
English I


FIRST
5
3
4
4


German I
Physics I
Chemistry 5
Mineralogy I
*Elective
Chemistry 7
Pharmacy 5
Pharmacognosy II
*Elective


i6
SECOND
4
4
5
2
2
17
THIRD
5
5
5
2


YEAR        Second Semester
Chemistry 3p            7
Pharmacognosy I         4
Mathematics I          4
Chemistry 4             2
I7
YEAR
Pharmacy 7              7
Physics 2               4
German 2                4
Economics 38p           2


YEAR
Chemistry 7a
Hygiene I
Bacteriology 2
Chemistry 8


17
5
3
5
4
17


I7




MARCH MEETING, 1921


167


FOURTH YEAR
Chemistry 44a       3     Pharmacology I      4
Bacteriology 31     3     Pharmacy 3          3
Pharmacy 4          3     Pharmacy 6          4
Research            4     tChenistry 13       3
*Elective           3     *Elective           2
I6                        16
A communication from   Professor Francis W. Kelsey
stated that Mrs. Theodore D. Buhl and her son Lawrence
D. Buhl, of Detroit, had remitted to the University the
sum of $Soo for the Buhl Classical Fellowship for the year
I920-192I. On motion of Regent Beal, this remittance was
received with thanks.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, and in accordance with
the recommendation of the Faculty of the Medical School,
the degree of Doctor of Medicine was voted to Glenadine
Calkins Snow, B.S., Kalamazoo College.
A communication from Mr. Chas. L. Reese of E. I. Du
Pont de Nemours & Company stated that this Company
would be pleased to continue its Fellowship in Chemistry through the year I92I-I922, at a cost of $750
(see Regents' Proceedings I917-I920, pages 275, 597, 829).
On motion of Regent Beal this offer was accepted with
thanks.
Dean Cooley notified the Regents that the United States
Navy Department proposed to send three post-graduate
students to the University of Michigan to study explosives
in the year I92I-I922.
A communication from   Dean Effinger transmitting a
letter from  Professor William H. Hobbs informed the
Regents, in substance, that the services of Professor H. A.
Brouwer, an eminent Holland Geologist, could be secured
on the basis of an exchange professorship during the second
semester of the year I92I-I922 at a cost to the University
of $400. A part of the arrangement contemplates a course
of lectures to be delivered by Professor Hobbs at Delft and
Utrecht in Holland. On motion of Regent Murfin, the
* This program includes 12I hours of prescribed courses and provides for
12 hours of elective work at the option of the student.
t Elective.




i68           MARCH MEETING, I921
Regents expressed their approval of the proposed plan, set
aside the sum of $400 for the purpose, and authorized the
President to take such steps as might be necessary to complete the arrangement.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote except
where otherwise expressly stated.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Friday, April 29,
subject, however, to a prior call of the President.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
Secretary




APRIL MEETING
UNIVErRSITY o0  MICHIGAN,l
ANN ARBOR, APRIL 29, 192I.S
The Board met in the Regents' Room at 9:4o A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Clements, Regent Hanchett, Regent Gore, Regent Murfin, and Regent Beal.
Absent, Regent Sawyer, who later took his seat, Regent
Leland, Regent Hubbard, who was in town but confined to
his room by illness, and Superintendent Johnson.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the minutes of the meeting of March 25 were approved as submitted to the members in proof with a minor change.
On motion of Regent Murfin, it was voted to approve
the actions of the Executive Committee as recorded in the
following minutes of that Committee's meetings: —
February 17, I92I
Present, the entire Committee
A continuation of the leave of absence of Professor
Howard B. Merrick, until July I, 1922, was granted as recommended by Dean Cooley and Professor Johnston.
February I8, 1921
Mr. Brand Blanchard, was appointed Assistant Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, for the year 1921-1922, with salary at the rate of
$2600 per annum.
Dr. H. G. Waller was appointed Assistant in the Clinical
Laboratory at the University Hospital, without pay, for the
remainder of the present academic year, but with board,
room, and laundry with the internes at the Hospital. The
estimated expense is $250.
All papers filed are attached to the original of this
report.
The President filed notice that the recommendation for
a retiring allowance for Professor Albert A. Stanley had




170


APRIL MEETING, 192I


been approved by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching (see page Io8).
The President filed notice that he had approved the
suggested plan (see page I6I) for a two-session Summer
Engineering Camp, for the coming summer, which involves
an additional expense estimated at $8ooo for the year I921 -1922.
The President reported upon the procedure in providing
homes for children born in the maternity hospital of the
University whose parents do not provide for them       (see
page I22).   No action was deemed necessary.
The Secretary reported the following resignations,
appointments, and other changes in the University staff as
authorized by the President:RESIGNATIONS AND DECLINATIONS
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
A diniistration
Gladys A. Paine, Clerk to the Registrar, resigned April
7, $900 per year.
Botanical Gardens
Martin Bilon, Head Gardener, resigned April 15, $I8oo
per year.
MEDICAL SCHOOL
Serology
Frank Barlow, Animal Caretaker, resigned March 31,
$I5 per month.
BARBOUR GYMNASIUM
Doris Wardner, Teaching Assistant in Physical Education, resigned February I, $I200 per year.
APPOINTMENTS
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
A dministration
Louise L. Gaylord, Clerk to the Registrar, vice Gladys
A. Paine, resigned, from April II, $9oo per year, twelvemonths' basis.
Botanical Gardens
Adrian P. Wezel, Head Gardener, vice Martin Bilon,
resigned, from April I6, $I800 per year, twelve-month's basis.
Economics
Harold W. Scott, Assistant, from March 15 to June 30,
$250 per year.




APRIL MEETING, 1921


17I


COLLEGES oF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
A dministration
Annabel Paxton, half-time Clerk, for three months from
March 2I, $50 per month.
Chemiical Engineering
Ruth E. Shepard, half-time Stenographer, vice Myrta
Mulholland, resigned, from March I, $600 per year, twelvemonth's basis.
MEDICAL SCHOOL
Serology
C. C. Cowie, Animal Caretaker, from April I, $15 per
month.
COLLEGE OF PHARMACY
Ruth E. Shepard, half-time Stenographer, vice Myrta
Mulholland, resigned, from March I, $600 per year, twelvemonth's basis.
COLLEGE O DENTAL SURGERY
Edna B. Dreese, half-time Stenographer, from April I
to June 30, $50 per month.
John M. Parsons, in charge work of Dental Clinic for
Ann Arbor school children, from March I8, $25 per month.
GENERAL LIBRARY
Mary Lane, temporary Cataloguer, vice Elizabeth Widney, on leave, from April I9, $IIOO per year, twelve-month's
basis.
SALARY ADJUSTMENTS
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND TEIE ARTS
Fine Arts
Adelaide A. Adams, Teaching Assistant, salary increased from $30c per year to $700 per year, from February 21.
COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
Civil Engineering
Sylvia Fiegel, Stenographer in the Highway Short
Course, salary increased from $65 per month to $75 per
month, from April I.
HEALTH SERVICE
Margaret McIntyre, Junior Nurse, salary increased
from $800 per year to $oo00 per year, from April I.




I72


APRIL MEETING, 1921


ON LEAVE
GENERAL LIBRARY
Elizabeth Widney, Cataloguer, granted a six month's
leave of absence, on account of ill health, from April I,
without salary.
Regent Sawyer took his seat.
On   motion  of Regent Murfin, Regent Gore was
appointed as the Committee of the Board to initial the University vouchers for the months of April, May, and June.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the minutes of tne meeting of April, I919 (see preceding volume, page 575), were.
corrected to show that the degree of Bachelor of Arts with
distinction was conferred upon Adelia McCrea, this change.
being in accordance with the facts as communicated by
Registrar Hall under date of April 27, I921.
The Secretary read a communication from Miss Louise
Potter as Secretary of the Detroit Alumnae of Collegiate
Sorosis, enclosing a draft for $ioo, to found the Detroit.
Alumnae of Collegiate Sorosis Loan Fund, to be administered by the President of the University, the Dean of
Women, and a third person to be chosen by the donors..
Conditions attached to the gift provided that loans be made
to young women whose record is above reproach and in.
sums to be determined by the committee named, interest thereon not to begin until one year after graduation.
It was a further condition that loans be restricted to women.
in the second semester of their senior year. On motion of
Regent Gore, the gift was accepted with thanks in accordance with its terms.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board referred to
Regent Beal and the Secretary for a report the possible
sale of certain lands owned by the University in Newaygo:
County, Michigan.
The President for the committee appointed at the March
25 meeting of tlie Regents (see page 142) reported the following plan for handling the building program under the
appropriations by the I92I legislature.
Your committee appointed to propose an organization
for handling the Comprehensive Building Plan begs leave
to make the following recommendations:




APRIL MEETING, 192?


I73


i. That the position of Consulting Architect be established with the understanding that this official shall give attention to the entire plan in all stages of its development.
It is further understood that the consulting architect may
or may not be the architect for the separate buildings. We
recommend that Mr. Albert Kahn be appointed as Consulting Architect.
2. That the position of Supervisor of Plans be established with the understanding that this official shall give
attention to the details of the plans of every building and
shall study them with particular reference to the educational needs of the department concerned. We recommend
that Professor John F. Shepard be appointed as Supervisor
of Plans.
3. That the "Committee of Five" consisting of the
Chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, the
President of the University, the Secretary of the University,
the Supervisor of Plans, and the Consulting Architect be
established and placed in direct and full charge of the developments of the plan. This Committee shall be responsible
only to the Board of Regents and shall be charged with the
high duties of making wise and economical expenditures
of the funds provided by the State and of the expeditious
realization of the plan during the next biennium.
4. That a separate Sub-Committee be established for
each new building and that this Committee be expected,
with initiative and resourcefulness, to co-operate in every
possible way to bring about the actual construction of the
building to which it has been assigned. The Sub-Committee shall consist of the Dean of the School or College concerned, the Supervisor of Plans and such others in each
case as they shall nominate to the "Committee of Five".
5. It is further understood that the "Committee of
Five" and the Sub-Committees, together with other university officers and members of the Faculties and experts shall
meet together as conditions may require.
6. It is recommended that pending further action by
the Board of Regents, the Consulting Architect may be requested to give attention to the problems of landscape architecture which are involved.
7. It is further understood that all business operations
involved in the carrying out of these plans shall be carefully centralized in the office of the Secretary of the University. In order to make this system thoroughly effective
the Secretary is hereby authorized to submit to the "Com



I74


APRIL MEETING, I92I


mittee of Five" for presentation to the Board of Regents
recommendations for the necessary enlargement of his
staff.
On motion of Regent Clements the plan was unanimously approved.
Regent Clements read to the Board the following contract embodying in definite form the terms of his gift of a
library and library building (see preceding volume, pages
833 to 836):This Agreement made and executed in duplicate this
5th day of May, A. D. I92I, by and between William I,.
Clements, of Bay City, Michigan, party of the first part, and
the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan, of
Ann Arbor, Michigan, party of the second part, Witnesseth:
First. That the party of the first part hereby gives to
the party of the second part, first party's library of American History situated in first party's residence in Bay City,
Michigan, and in the general library of the University of
Michigan, in Ann Arbor, Michigan, as listed in first party's
card catalogue thereof, and agrees to build, at first party's
expense, upon the campus of the University of Michigan,
at Ann Arbor, Michigan, a suitable building to house same,
at a cost not exceeding the sum of One Hundred and
Seventy-five Thousand ($I75,000) Dollars, and to equip and
furnish said building at an additional cost not to exceed the
sum of Fifteen Thousand ($I5,ooo) Dollars, said building
to be constructed according to plans and specifications which
shall be submitted to and approved by the party of the
second part, and upon such site upon said campus as shall
be mutually agreed upon between the parties hereto. The
building is to be erected by the party of the first part as
soon as, in the judgment of first party, building conditions
are such as to warrant reasonable economy in the construction and equipment thereof.
Second. The gift hereinbefore described is made subject to the following conditions, viz:
I. That this library of books shall be known as "The
Clements Library of American History."
2. That the building herein provided for shall be
known as the "Clements Library Building."
3. That the delivery of the said library, in whole or in
part, shall be made when and as the first party may deter



APRIL MEETING, I921


I75


mine, it being agreed that the party of the first part, if he
desires, is to have the use of the library, in whole or in
part, at his residence in Bay City, Michigan, during his life
time.
4. That the party of the first part shall be at liberty,
from time to time, to add to this library, to exchange book
material therein for better book material, and to exercise
general supervision over such accessions as shall be made
from time to time.
5. That the party of the second part shall:
(a) Maintain and keep in repair the library of
books and manuscripts, and the building and the equipment therein.
(b) Heat and supply such building with water,
electricity and other necessities.
(c) Keep the building and books therein adequately
insured against fire and theft.
6. That the party of the second part shall provide a
fund of Twenty-five Thousand ($25,000) Dollars annually,
the same to be used for the purposes of:
(a) Paying the salary of a Custodian who shall
be known as the "Custodian of the Clements Library of
American History," who shall act as Custodian and
Librarian; and the salaries of such assistants as may be
necessary.
(b)  Paying all necessary expenses incurred from
time to time, in binding, rebinding, or maintaining in
repair the above collection.
(c)  Making accessions to the collection, provided,
however, that the sum set aside for accessions shall not
be less than three-fifths of the total sum to be annually
appropriated as above for the maintenance thereof, and
that all such accessions shall become a part of and be
designated as a part of "The Clements Library of American History," evidencing this fact with the book plate
of such library.
7. That the books belonging to this library shall not
be subject, under any circumstances, to the "loaning privilege," and none of the books belonging to this collection
shall, under any condition, be sold, even though they are
duplicates; nor shall any thereof be removed from the
library building unless removed to a new building which
may hereafter be erected to take the place of the building




I76


APRIL MEETING, 192I


constructed by the first party, nor unless for safe keeping
or for the purpose of preservation in case of fire or other
unusual hazard.
8. That the Custodian shall make an annual report to
the Board of Regents or to its Library Committee, showing
the accessions made and the development of the uses of the
library for work in American History.
9. That the Custodian shall perform his duties as Custodian and Librarian in conjunction with and under the general instruction and supervision of the General Librarian of
the University of Michigan, in order to insure harmony in
operation with the general library, and to prevent duplication of efforts and purchases of book material.
io. That regulations governing the use of this library,
providing for the conservation of its books, manuscripts,
etc., stimulating the study of history, bibliography, and
cartography by means of exhibitions, conferences, and lectures by the Custodian, members of the History Department
of the University of Michigan and reputable historians from
all sections of the country, and such other rules and regulations as the Board of Regents may think necessary, shall.
be promulgated, from time to time, by the Board of Regents, for the government, use and preservation of the
library.
Third. This library may receive and carry upon its
shelves such books of American History, maps or manuscripts now or hereafter a part of the general library of the
University of Michigan which might be carried more safely
and conveniently for advanced study and use in the building herein provided for. Such books, however, to be designated as "loan books," and subject to return on demand to
the general library.
-Fourth. In case of the failure or default of the party of
the second part hereto, or its successor, to fulfill the conditions and obligations by it to be fulfilled as herein set forth,
this agreement shall terminate, the library collection herein
provided for shall revert to the party of the first part, his
heirs, executors, administrators or assigns, and the party of
the first part, his heirs, executors, administrators or assigns,
may take immediate possession of the library collection
above described and of accessions that have been made
thereto by the party of the first part, and may offer the same
to any other institution that will fulfill the terms herein
contained, or may make such other and different disposi



APRIL MEETING, I92I


I77


tion thereof as the party of the first part, his heirs, executors, administrators or assigns, may elect.
Fifth. This agreement is hereby declared to be binding
upon the party of the first part, his heirs, executors, administrators or assigns, and upon the party of the second part,
its successor; successors or assigns.
In Witness Whereof, The party of the first part has
hereunto affixed his hand and seal, and the party of the
second part, as evidencing its acceptance of this agreement,
and of the terms and conditions thereof, has caused its corporate name and seal to be hereunto affixed, and this instrument to be signed by its President and attested by the
signature of its Secretary, the day and year first above
written.
WILLIAM L. CLIME:NTS   (L. S.)
BOARD OF REGENTS OF UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN
By..................................
President
Attest..................................
Secretary
JAMES E. DurFY
CHARLES R. WrELLS
Witness to execution by first party..........................................
Witness to execution by second party
On motion of Regent Sawyer, -the President and Secretary were authorized to execute this contract, the vote
being as follows: Aye, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent
Hanchett, Regent Gore, and Regent MIurfin.         Not voting,
Regent Clements.
Regent Murfin presented a letter from      Mr. Walter E.
Bliss, an attorney at Greeley, Colorado, calling attention to
the fact that the Regents at their meeting of February 17,
1897 (see Proceedings of I896-I9OI, pages 35-36), declined
to accept certain property devised to the University by the
late Anna E. P. Eastman Marsh. The letter of M/r. Bliss
stated, however, that owing to the terms of the will a cloud
still rested upon the legal title to this property, and asked




I78


APRIL MEETING, 1921


the present Board of Regents to authorize a quit-claim deed
thereto.  On motion of Regent Murfin, the President and
Secretary were authorized to execute such a deed.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the following appointments were made:Adolph Frederick Pauli, Instructor in Greek and Latin
for the University year I92I-I922, with salary of $2000, this
sum to be deducted from the salary of Professor John G.
Winter, on leave (see page 128).
Carl F. Brand, Instructor in History for the University year 1921-1922, with salary of $2000.
Detlev W. Bronk, Instructor in Physics for the University year 1921-1922, with salary of $I6co.
David Dennison, Assistant in Physics for the University year I92I-I922, with salary of $800.
* Tom Peete Cross. Professor of English beginning with
the University year 1921-1922, with salary of $5500 per
annum.
James Holly Hanford, Professor of English beginning
with the University year I92I-I922, with salary of $5500 per
annum.
Frances Graves, Senior Assistant in Botany, second
semester of the University year I920-192I, with salary at the
rate of $I50 for the entire year.
The Board discussed informally the situation in the
Medical School. On motion of Regent Beal, the President
and Regent Sawyer were authorized to visit certain other
universities for conferences in connection with this problem.
On motion of Regent Miurfin, the Board extended to
Professor Wilbert B. Hinsdale an urgent invitation to continue in the Deanship of the Homceopathic Medical School
through the year 1921-1922.
The Board took a recess for lunch.
* Professor Cross did not accept.




APRIL MEETING, I92I


I79


AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at I:io P. M.
Present, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent Hanchett,
Regent Gore, and Regent Murfin. Absent, Regent Clements,
who later took his seat, Regent Leland, Regent Hubbard,
and Superintendent Johnson.
The Board discussed at length the question of appointment to the directorship of Physical Education hut took
no action.
Regent Clements entered during the discussion.
Regent Gore was excused in order to reach a train.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board rescinded its action
of May 23, I919 (preceding volume, page 596), limiting the
number of honorary degrees in any one year to six. On this
motion the vote was as follows: Aye, Regent Beal, Regent
Clements, and Regent Ianchett. No, Regent Sawyer, and
Regent Murfin.
The Board voted honorary degrees to be conferred at
the Commencement exercises June 30, I92I, under the usual
conditions.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board finally approved
the schedule for Commencement Week originally adopted
at the February meeting (see pages I33-I34), and later
reconsidered at the March meeting (see page 14I).
On motion of Regent Murfin. the following actions were
taken to be effective with the year 1921-I922: —
The Department of Rhetoric was re-entitled the "Department of Rhetoric and Journalism."
The title of Professor Fred N. Scott was made to read
"Professor of Rhetoric and Journalism."
Associate Professor John R. Brumm was appointed
Professor of Journalism in the Department of Rhetoric and
Journalism.
On motion of Regent BEa!, the matter of enlarged publicity for the University among alumni and the general public was referred to the President with power.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board approved the
expenditure of $10oo  for the purchase of steam meters and




I80


APRIL MEETING, 1921


other equipment to provide accurate measurements of heat
furnished, and a further sum of $Iooo to cover necessary
repairs to and changes in the elevator of the General Library.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the sum of $5000 was
added to the Contingent account for the present year.
The Secretary filed notice that Regent Murfin had
approved the payment of $649.76 to Cavanaugh & Burke
for attorney's services (see page II5).
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board authorized the
University Health Service to promote periodic medical
examinations for all students, beginning the practice with
the sophomore class of the present year. It was the understanding that this work would require no additional members of the Health 'Service staff for the present year and
would involve only small expense for postage and printing.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the sum of $Iooo was
added to the Health Service current expense account for
the present year to meet a number of items stipulated in a
communication from the Health Service.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board authorized
the payment of $1387.21 interest to the First National Bank
of Ann Arbor covering overdrafts in December and January, last, at a time when the State Treasury was empty and
the University was therefore unprovided with funds.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the following appropriations were made:Department of Pathology, Current Expense Account..$Iooo
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Current
Expense  Account...............................  500
Department of Botany, Current Expense Account..... 350
Dean of Women, Current Expense Account..........  60
Medical School Administration, Current Expense Account...............0...........................  II0o
In accordance with the request of Dean Effinger, the following actions were taken:i. The existing herbaria, administered by the Museum
of Zoology and by the Department of Botany, were merged
into one, to be entitled "Herbarium of the University of
Michigan," and to include the present Phanerogamic and
Cryptogamic Herbaria of the Department of Botany, and
the Collections of Plants of the Museum of Zoology.




APRIL MEETING, I92I


2. Quarters for the University of Michigan Herbarium
shall be provided in the new University Museum when the
same shall be erected.
3. Professor Calvin H. Kauffman was appointed Director of the Herbarium in charge of general administration, and to act as Curator of the Cryptogamic collections.
4. Professor John H. Ehlers was appointed Curator of
the Phanerogamic collections.
5. Any funds at present available for the present Herbaria were transferred to the new Herbarium of the University of Michigan.
6. The Herbarium of the University of Michigan is
to be a part of the present Department of Botany.
The Board accepted with thanks a gift from Mr. Charles
A. Sink of an outfit of tuning and repairing tools characterized by Professor Stanley as very unusual. This gift is
to be a portion of the Stearns Musical Collection.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board accepted with
thanks a gift from Dr. Bryant Walker. of Detroit, of a summer scholarship of $75 at the Marine Biological Laboratory,
Woods Hole, Massachusetts.
The Regents approved the general plan of a conference
of alumni to be held in Ann Arbor during the latter part
of May, in accordance with a communication received from
Mr. Stanley D. McGraw, of New York City. The sum of
$500 was set aside to provide entertainment for this gathering.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board approved the
request of the Michigamua Society to place a circular stone
slab with the insignia of the Society, upon the campus near
the Tappan Oak.
On motion of Regent Hanchett and in accordance with
t!'e recommendation of the Executive Board of the Graduate School, degrees were voted as follows:MASTER OF ARTS
Roger William Allen, B.S., Alabama Polytechnic Institute. M.S., ibid.
Crl Enoch William Leonard Dahlstrom, A.B.
Keet William Halbert, A.B.
Earl Henry Neller, A.B.
Oscar John Peterson, A.B., Kalamazoo College.




l82


APRIL MEETIATG, 1921


Bunzaburo Sashida, A.B.
Clair Ketcham Searles, A.B.
Ernst George Siefert, A.B., Miami University.
F. Raymond Smith, A.B., Albion College.
MASTER Or SCIENCE
D. Wilson Crouse, A.B., Wittenberg College, A.M., ibid.
Joaquin Mejorada Maranon, B.S.(Phar.), University of
the Philippines.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the degree of LL.B. was
voted to Mr. Feng Chu Liu, A.B. I918, as recommlended
by the Faculty of the Law School.
A communication from Director C. G. Parnall of the
University Hospital requesting an additional appropriation
for porters and orderlies was referred back to Director Parnall with the request for further information.
In view of the fact that Dean Myra B3. Jordan is to retire
at the end of the year 192I-1922, before becoming eligible
to the Carnegie Foundation retiring allowance, on motion
of Regent Murfin the President was requested to recommend to the Board a proper retiring allowance for Dean
Jordan.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board granted a tenweeks' leave of absence with pay, from May I, 1921, to
Mr. Norman A. Wood, Curator in the Museum, to permit
him to cooperate with the North Dakota Biological Survey.
The North Dakota Biological Survey meets the expense of
Mr. Wood's trip and the University of Michigan IMuseum
receives such specimens as he may collect.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board fixed the salary
of Professor Arthur E. R. Boak at $5000 per year, beginning
with the University year 1921-I922.
On motion of Regent Clements, the sum of $3300 was
appropriated to the University Library for the purchase of
certain duplicate volumes from Harvard University during
the year I92I-1922.
On motion of Regent Clements, the following resolution
was adopted in memory of the late Professor Emeritus
Charles B. G. de Nancrede, who died in Ann Arbor, April
12, 1921:



APRIL MEETING, 1921


i83


Whereas, The recent death of Doctor Charles B. G. de
Nancrede marks the passing from the academic and social
life of the University of a distinguished surgeon, a great
teacher, and a refined and cultured gentleman, of high ideals
and of true University type; therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Board of Regents expresses its
affectionate appreciation of him, and extends to his family
and friends its sympathy in a mutual sorrow.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board authorized
the appointment of Mr. Herbert Atherton Fowler as parttime Instructor in Architecture, with salary at the rate of
$25 per week for a period of eight weeks beginning May 2,
1921.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board referred to
the President and Regent Beal with power the request of
the Dean of the Summer Session for additional living quarters for the residents at the Biological Station during the
coming summer.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board referred to
the President and Regent Beal with power the request of
the American Association of University WVomen for a contribution toward the Madame Curie Radium Fund.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote except
where otherwise expressly stated.
The Board adjourned to the date of the next regular
meeting, Mlay 27, I92I, at 9:30 A. M.
SHIR-LEY W, SMITH, Secretary




MAY MEETING
UNIVERSITY o0   MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, MAY 27, I92I. 
The Board met in the Regents' Room at 9:25 A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer,
Regent Hanchett, Regent Hubbard, Regent Gore, and Regent Murfin.    Absent, Regent Clements, Regent Leland,
and Superintendent Johnson.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the meeting of April 29 were approved as submitted to the members
in proof with minor changes.
On motion of Regent Murfin it was voted to approve
the actions of the Executive Committee as recorded in the
following minutes of that Committee's meetings:May 2, I92I
Present, the entire Committee.
The Committee authorized an expenditure of $25 to
cover the expense of a luncheon tendered May 13 to the
Director of the Library School of Western Reserve University and twenty assistants and students in that school
who were visiting the University Library.on a tour of inspection.
May 3, I921
Present, the entire Committee.
In view of the representations of Dean Lloyd as to the
importance of the scientific work carried on at Woods Hole,
Massachusetts., and of the participation therein in the past
and the proposed participation during 1921 by representatives
of this University, and of the fact that thus far no contribution to the expenses of the Station have been made by the
University of Michigan, the Committee approved the payment of $200 to the Marine Biological Laboratory, this payment to be made out of funds already appropriated to the
State College Fellowship fund in the Graduate School.




I86


MAY MEETING, 192I


May 6, 1921
Present, the entire Committee.
A loan of $300 from University Trust Funds was authorized to Dr. W. Freeman Galpin, Instructor in History.
This loan is to be repaid during the next University year
and is to draw interest at 6%. Dr. Galpin needed the money
to meet the expenses of a proposed trip to Europe for work
in the British Archives this summer to complete the thesis
for his Doctor's degree.
May 9, 1921
Present, the entire Committee.
In view of the fact that the Board had approved of certain art exhibits in the Alumni Memorial Hall provided by
the courtesy and largely at the expense of the Honorable
A. M. Todd, and the Ann Arbor Art Association, and the
further fact that the placing of these exhibits at the same
time, as seemed necessary, caused considerable extra expense and further that neither exhibit could be postponed
because of arrangements already made, your Committee allowed a total sum of not to exceed $550 toward the expense of these exhibits. This allowance was made to the
Ann Arbor Art Association with the distinct understanding
that it should not be construed as a precedent for the future
and that the exhibit should be open to the members of the
University without charge.
Such papers as were submitted in support of the above
actions are filed with the minutes.
Regent Sawyer reported for the Salaries Committee and
the Finance Committee with respect to the budget proposed
for the University year I92I-I922, and on his motion the
budget was adopted exclusive of the hospitals in the form
of the following resolution: -
Resolved, That the budget as recommended by the Finance Committee amounting to $3,647,260.53, exclusive of
the hospitals of the University and the University Hospital
Clinical departments, be approved and adopted as the budget
for the year 1921-1922 and that the Secretary be given authority to group or re-group accounts as may seem desirable for
formal accounting purposes, but without affecting in any case
the actual amount.of the appropriation.
On motion of Regent Sawyer the budget of the Homoeopathic Hospital was adopted as follows for the year
I92I-I922:



MAY MEETING, I92I


I87


Salaries.................................. $  46,89o.00
Current  Expense.............................  78,300.00
Equipm ent....................................  5,000.00
T otal..........................................$I30,I90.00
subject to the general conditions of University administration and further subject to the condition that the receipts
from the hospital must meet the expenses thus allowed in
the budget.
The budget of the University Hospital was not acted
upon at this meeting.
It was informally agreed that the President would in due
course present for the consideration of the Board some
modification in the present plan of procedure in making
the annual budget.
The President reported for the Committee consisting of
himself and Regent Beal, to which had been referred with
power the request of the Dean of the Summer Session for
additional living quarters for residents at the Biological
Station during the coming summer (see page I83), that
the sum of $1,200 had been set aside for the construction
of five additional houses.
The President reported that in accordance with authority
given him (see page 37) he had ruled that students in the
combined course in Letters and Nursing (see Regents' Proceedings I917-I920, pages 643 to 646) should not be required to pay fees while still enrolled in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts after enrollment in the
Nurses' Training School.
On motion of Regent Hanchett and upon nomination
by the Michigan Manufacturers Association, the Board approved the appointment by the President of Mr. Howard
E. Coffin, of Detroit, to membership on the Advisory Board
of the Department of Engineering Research.
Regent Murfin reported to the Board an offer to sell to
the University the residence of the late Bradley M. Thompson on East University Avenue, Ann Arbor.
Regent Beal reported that for the sum of $I5o he had
received a deed clearing the tax title upon the property described on page I 3.
The Secretary reported the following appointments and




I88


MAY MEETING, I921


adjustments in the University staff as authorized by the
President: -
RESIGNATIONS AND DECLINATIONS
John McLaughlin Parsons, College of Dental Surgery,
Demonstrator and Assistant in charge of Clinic for Ann
Arbor School Children, resigned May I.
APPOINTMENTS
COLLGE OF LITERATURI, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Philosophy and Psychology
Anne Louise Mitchell, Assistant, from May I to June
30, $37.50 per month.
SALARY ADJUSTMENTS
COLLtEG OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Philosophy and Psychology
Helen Kurtti, Assistant, salary increased from $200 to
$275, from May I.
Lowell J. Carr, Assistant, salary increased from $500
to $650, from May I.
The Secretary presented the resignation from the Board
of Governors of the Betsy Barbour House of Miss Mary
Turner due to her change of residence from Detroit to California. On motion of Regent Murfin the resignation was
accepted with regret.
The Secretary filed a report submitted by Superintendent
Pardon upon transactions involving the Teams account of
the present University year.
On motion of Regent Murfin three-months' leave of absence with pay was granted to William C. Hollands, Superintendent of the Printing and Binding Plant, this leave being in view of Mr. Hollands's long service and the present
state of his health.
The Board discussed at length problems involved in the
administration of the Medical School.
On motion of Regent Gore, Dr. Hugh Cabot was elected
Dean of the Medical School to begin July I, I92I, without
additional salary to that received by him as Professor of
Surgery.
The Board discussed the projected Department of Physical Education and the President outlined a plan which it
was believed would meet the situation. On motion of Regent Beal the Board approved this plan and empowered




MAY MEETING, 192I


189


and requested the President and Regent Murfin to work out
a detailed arrangement in accordance therewith including
the making of such appointments as might be required.
The President placed before the Board a communication
from Professor A. S. Whitney, Head of the Department of
Education, and also a communication in writing by the President himself upon the general subject of the proposed
School of Education. On motion of Regent Gore the Board
adopted the following resolution:Resolved, That a School of Education be established in
the University to date from July I, I92I, with Professor
Alien S. Whitney as Acting Dean, and that the President be
instructed to proceed to secure a permanent Dean.
On motion of Regent 'Murfin the Board voted that except under circumstances of special emergency no meeting
of the Regents would be held during July and August.
On motion of Regent Beal the Board authorized and directed the provision of a Michigan hood for each recipient
of an honorary degree hereafter. The Board further approved certain proposed changes in the ceremony by which
honorary degrees are conferred.
The President filed copies of the Acts under which the
University mill tax was increased by the Legislature of I921
and appropriations of $4,800,000 were made for land and
building purposes. These are respectively House Enrolled
Act No. 172 and Senate Enrolled Act No. 103.
The President presented a communication transmitted
originally by Regent Murfin from the Safety Committee of
the Detroit Automobile Club urging that the University take
steps to promote instruction in the schools having for its
object the prevention of accidents, fires, and other calamities. On motion of Regent Gore the Board expressed deep
interest in the proposal and referred it to the authorities of
the newly established School of Education.
The President presented a communication dealing with
the question of better publicity among the alumni and the
general public, which had been referred to him with power
at the preceding meeting (see page I79). No action was
taken by the Board at this time.
The President again presented the communication received from Professor Louis A. Strauss proposing the prep



I90o


MAY MEETING, 1921


aration and issue of a catalogue of the McMillan Shakespeare Library as a memorial to the late Professor Isaac N.
Demmon, originally presented at the January meeting (see
page IIO). On motion of Regent Hubbard the matter was
laid upon the table until the September meeting.
On motion of Regent Murfin leave of absence with onehalf pay of $I,900 was granted to Associate Professor Clifford C. Glover of the College of Pharmacy for the year
T92I-I922, which period he will use in study elsewhere.
On motion of Regent Murfin, following the recommendation by the Senate Council, the Regents voted an additional honorary degree under the usual conditions.
The Board considered a communication from Professor
William H. Hobbs urging that one of the persons to whom
an honorary degree had been voted to be conferred at the
coming Commencement might be excused from         actual attendance at Commencement. On motion of Regent Murfin
the Board declined to alter the in presentia condition.
On motion of Regent Hanchett the Regents approved
and authorized the course for Dental Hygienists proposed
in the following communictaion from    Dean Ward: -
Public Act No. 367 of the I919 session of the Legislature legalizes dental assistants and designates them as dental hygienists. This law was passed in accordance with the
requests of large numbers of dentists in the State of Michigan who were primarily interested in better hygiene for
everyone, but more especially for children. Since the passage of this act, numerous requests have been made for the
faculty of the College of Dental Surgery to institute a
course leading to the degree of Dental Hygienist.
Inasmuch as the College of Dental Surgery was not
large enough to care for dental hygienists in addition to the
large freshmen and sophomore classes which were enrolled
during the last two years, it has not seemed possible to accede to the requests for the organization of a course for
dental hygienists. With the realization: of the contemplated
additions to the building, however, ample facilities will be
had to permit the promotion of the present freshman and
sophomore classes to the junior and senior years and at the
same time the organization of a hygienist school. If the
contemplated additions to the College of Dental Surgery
can be finished within a year, 25 or 30 hygienists may be enrolled at the opening of the next session and the following




MAY MEETING, I921


I91


year two or three times that number may.be accommodated,
provided the requests in the budget for this year be granted.
It does not seem practicable to present an outline of
the course which our faculty has under consideration until
the Board of Regents has given approval to the organization and establishment of a course under the general plan
which follows:I. Women only are eligible under the law and must
be 20 years of age and graduates of high school.
2. Minimum requirement under the law: one year of
instruction.
3. Course proposed by dental faculty to be of twoyears' duration, one year of which to be largely class work,
the second year to be largely clinical work to be done either
in the College of Dental Surgery, or partly in the College
of Dental Surgery and partly in any high school, college,
or state institution that will furnish supervision acceptable
to the Board of Regents.
4. Certificate as Dental Hygienist to be granted at the
end of two years.
5. Fee for first year in University: one hundred dollars; second year in University the same amount if all the
second year be devoted to work in the University. Otherwise fee is to be remitted for the whole or fraction of the
second year in which the applicant works in a high school,
college, or state institution.
In behalf of the profession of the state of Michigan it
may be said that they have joined with us in making this
request. Before the decision of our faculty was made to
make this request, invitations were issued to forty representative dentists in the state of Michigan and thirty-seven
came to Ann Arbor to discuss the project, resulting in the
unanimous adoption of 'the faculty's proposal.
With these things in view, the dental faculty recommends that the Board of Regents give its approval to the
general plan outlined for the organization and institution of
the course for dental hygienists, with the understanding
that the course of study be outlined and submitted to the
Board at a subsequent meeting.
On motion of Regent Murfin the Board confirmed the
election by the University Senate of the following members
of the: Board in Control of Athletics for the year ending
April 30, 1922:




I92


MAY MEE1TING, I92I


Professor Ralph W. Aigler  Professor Lewis M. Gram
Professor William A. Frayer Professor Clarence T. Johnston
On motion of Regent Murfin the following were elected
as alumni members of the Board in Control of Athletics
for the year ending April 30, I922: -
John D. Hibbard, Chicago  Charles B. DuCharme, Detroit
James L. Duffy, Bay City
The President reported (see page 182) that Dean Myra
B. Jordan would presumably be ineligible to a retiring allowance from the Carnegie Foundation at the close of the University year I92I-I922. On motion of Regent Murfin the
Board voted that should Dean Jordan retire at the close of
the year I92I-I922 a retiring allowance of $1,ooo per annum would be provided by the University.
On motion of Regent Gore following the recommendation of Dean Effinger and Professor Wenley the title "Department of Philosophy and Psychology" was substituted
for the title "Department of Philosophy."
On motion of Regent Murfin the Board approved the
following regulations proposed by the Senate Council: —
Students failing to complete their registration before
the first day of the semester are required to pay a late registration fee of $5.00. In cases of unavoidable delay this
fee may be remitted by the registration officer of the student concerned.
A communication was received from the Dean of Students on the basis of which Regent Sawyer moved that the
University Health Service be authorized to take steps toward inspecting and improving rooming houses, restaurants, cafeterias, etc. This motion was lost by the following vote: Aye, Regent Sawyer, Regent Hanchett, and Regent Hubbard. No, Regent Beal, Regent Murfin, and Regent Gore. Regent Hanchett changed his vote to no, making the final vote two to four.
On motion of Regent Murfin the Board approved a further development of Extension Courses in accordance with
the following extracts from a communication from Director
Henderson:The Association of Stationary Engineers, through a
communicatior forwarded to Dean Cooley, is asking for in



MAY MEETING, 192I


193


struction for stationary engineers in Detroit and other centers of the state, in the fundamental principles of combustion and related topics, with special reference to the conservation of fuel........ Acting upon President Burton's
suggestion, Dean Cooley appointed a special committee consisting of Professors Sadler, Anderson, and A. H. White,
and the Director of the Extension Division, to consider the
above request. This committee drew up a plan with reference to engineering instruction through the medium of extension courses, this plan involving first, the idea of organizing a limited number of tentative courses next year,
and second, that of studying the problem, in all its aspects.
On motion of Regent Gore and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the Faculty of the College of
Dental Surgery, the list of required courses in the combined
curriculum in Letters and Dental Surgery was changed to
read as follows (see also Regents' Proceedings I917-I920,
pages 256-257):
Rhetoric, 6 hours, including Courses I and 2.
French or German, I6 hours of either one.
English, 6 hours.
History, 8 hours.
Electives from Group III, 4 hours.
Chemistry, general and qualitative, 8 hours for students presenting Chemistry for entrance, otherwise 12 hours.
Zoology, 6 hours.
Botany, 4 hours.
Total, 90 hours.
The remaining rules and regulations of the combined
course in Letters and Dental Surgery were unchanged.
On motion of Regent Sawyer the Board declined for the
present to consider the beginning of work at the Biological
Station looking toward the transfer of the location of this
Station to Grapevine Point.
The President presented the following letter from Professor H. H. Higbie with a check for $50 attached thereto:
DEAR DOCTOR BURTON:The attached check represents compensation obtained
in my behalf by the Deparfment of Engineering Research
from a client for whom I recently made an investigation




I94


MAY MEETING, 1921


under the auspices of the said department. While technically I am entitled to receive this money because my hours
of service due to the University are not all definitely fixed,
I do not personally feel free to accept the money because
such action would be contrary to the ideals which I conceive
to be best for service to the University, and would be inconsistent with the stand which I have declared for myself
in regard to what is known as "outside work."
Perhaps the fact that under the existing order I could
claim this fee as my own, may give me some right to determine, or at least to recommend, how the money should be
used as I return it to the University. If so, I should like
to see it credited specifically to the Department of Electrical
Engineering, with the understanding that it shall be made
available toward the purchase of equipment for our photometric laboratory - that being the laboratory in which this
tee was earned and in which I am especially interested.
Very respectfully,
H. H. HIGBIE
Ann Arbor, Michigan, May 6, I92I
On motion of Regent Murfin the gift was accepted with
thanks, in accordance with its terms.
On motion of Regent Gore salary payments to Mr. Everett L. Hackes, Instructor in Romance Languages, were ordered terminated after the second one-fifth payment of his
salary for the second semester.   Mr. Hackes has been absent due to illness since before the beginning of the semester
and his absence had not been previously reported to the executive or central administrative authorities of the    University.
On motion of Regent Hubbard the Board declined to
provide an additional sum of $500 for the purchase of books
primarily in the field of Romance Languages to be purchased
by Professor C. P. Wagner during a trip to Europe in the
coming summer.
The following communication was received from       Associate Professor R. D. T. Hollister:In recognition of the long years of splendid service
which Professor Thomas C. Trueblood has rendered to the
University of Michigan and to so many of her graduates,
some of his former students and friends wish to present his
portrait to the University and to start a "Trueblood Fellowship Fund" in his honor. We desire to do this formally




MAY MEElTING, 192I


I95


on the afternoon of June 6 at 4:00oo o'clock in Hill Auditorium under the auspices of the Oratorical Association.
The portrait has been painted by Mr. Merton Grenhagen, a well-known portrait painter of Oshkosh, Wisconsin,
whose portrait of Doctor James N. Martin now hangs in the
Medical Building.
The fellowship fund, which we hope will ultimately
amount to $20,000, is intended to provide for substantial
graduate fellowships in the field of Public Speaking. The
Oratorical Association wishes to start this fund with a gift
of $2,000 and to lend its aid in building up the fund. Several former honor men in oratory and debate have expressed their desire to co-operate in this.
On behalf of some eighty or ninety grateful students of
Professor Trueblood, living in many parts of this country
and of the world, and on behalf of the Oratorical Association, it is a pleasure, I assure you, to present this portrait and start this fellowship as a slight token of our appreciation of the work of this man.
On motion of Regent IMurfin the portrait and the proposed fellowship fund were accepted with the sincere thanks
of the Regents and authority was given for the proposed
meeting.
Dean Lloyd communicated to the Board the fact that
Dr. Jeanne C. Solis of Ann Arbor had offered a prize of
$25 to the woman whose publication during the calendar
year I92I in the field of natural science including medicine
shall be adjudged the most meritorious. On motion of Regent Murfin the gift was accepted with thanks.
On motion of Regent Murfin the Board approved the
transfer of the sum of $I,300, provided that sum should remain unexpended, from    the salary account of the    Law
School to the Law Library book fund.
A further communication was received from Doctor
Parnall (see page 182) with respect to the employment of
additional porters and orderlies in the University Hospital.  The Board approved this proposal with the understanding that the total expenses for the University Hospital
should not exceed the receipts during the present calendar
year.
On motion of Regent Murfin the Board approved the request of Professor Robert Arthur for a change in the style
of military uniforms for the R. O. T. C. (see page 78).




I96


MAY MEETING, I92I


On motion of Regent Murfin the following appointments
and changes in the teaching staff of the Summer Session as
recommended by'Dean Kraus were approved by the Board
on the usual condition that they were all within the budget
as already voted:COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCEI AND THE ARTS
Botany
Hours    Salary
Assistant Paul A. Warren...............    $IOO.OO
Assistant Lewis E. Wehmeyer...........      I00.00


Romance Llaguages
Instructor Michael De Filippis.......... 64
COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
Assistant Rudolph B. Werey.............
Assistant Elmer S. Pettyjohn............
BIOLOGICAL STATION
Assistant Harry C. Fortner..............
Assistant Minna A. Jewel...............
Assistant Alice E. Keener...............
SPECIAL LECTURER
Superintendent Peter Mortenson..........


283.33
150.00
150.00
150.00
150.00
150.00
I00.00


On motion of Regent Miurfin and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts the degree of Bachelor of Arts was
conferred upon the following: -


Vivencio Garces Casia


Emery Terry Jones


On motion of Regent Murfin and in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the Colleges of Engineering  and  Architecture  degrees were   voted  as follows: -
BACHELOR OF SCIE.NCE IN ENGINEERING (Civil Engineering)
Chi-Liang Hu            Samuel Carlos Lewandorf
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING (Mechanical Engineering)
Charles Schiffer Holihan George Edward Oles
BACHEL'OR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING  (Chemical Engineering)
Virgil Henry Waite
At this point the Board adjourned for lunch.




MAY MEETING, 1921


I97


AFTERNOON SESSION
The Regents continued their session, about the table,
after lunch at the Michigan Union.
The same members were present as at the morning session.
On motion of Regent Gore the Board elected Oscar J.
Campbell, Jr., of the University of Wisconsin, to a Professorship of English with salary of $5,500 per annum beginning with the University year I92I-I922.
Professor W. D. Henderson, Director of the Extension
Service, appeared and discussed with the Board a proposal
for extension courses in banking, to be given in Detroit.
On motion of Regent Murfin this subject was referred to
the Committee on Educational Policies for a report.
On motion of Regent Murfin the Board adopted a plan
for correlating courses for prospective social service workers in general accord with the following outline (see also
page 99). Regent Gore did not vote. The general conditions under which the courses are to be given are outlined
as follows: 
i. A special curriculum will be provided in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, of the University of
Michigan, for the training of social workers, such curriculum to include the usual requirements for the Bachelor's
degree and be subject to the approval of the Dean of the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. Dr. A. E.
Wood is to beappointed Director of the Curriculum for the
Training of Social Workers.
2. For those students who complete the undergraduate
requirements in the proposed course in social work, there
should be provided the opportunity of taking at least one
year of advanced, specialized training in the Graduate
School, leading to the Master's degree under such conditions as may hereafter be determined by the Executive
Board of the Graduate School.
3. The proposed plan for the training of social workers may be classified as including:



I98


MAY MEETING, 192I


a. Under-graduate work on the campus.
b. Work in the Graduate School, on or off the
campus.
c. Under-graduate or special courses off the
campus.
It is understood that undergraduate or special courses
which are conducted off the campus shall be administered
under the joint direction of the teaching staff in Sociology,
and the University Extension Division, and shall be subject to the rules governing the organization of extension
courses.
4. A large part of the work of this curriculum should
be given by present members of the University Faculty. To
meet the requirements presented by the organization of this
special curriculum, it is recommended that one additional
member of the Faculty in Sociology be appointed, with the
rank of Assistant Professor, at a salary to be determined
later, part of whose teaching at least should be in residence
courses.
The President presented a communication from Miss
Katherine N. Rhoades in which she indicated that her opinion with respect to the interpretation of the will of the late
Charles L. Freer (see pages 75-76) had been materially
misconstrued. In view of this fact, on motion of Regent
Murfin the Board formally voted that the opinion of Miss
Rhoades should be the guide in the interpretation of the
Freer bequest, even to the extent of changing the policy
on this subject adopted by the Regents when they approved
Professor Kelsey's plan for applying the income to the
end of editing certain Greek Biblical manuscripts (see
page 76).
Dr. Orma F. Butler, in a communication to the President, recorded the receipt from the widow of the late Professor William H. Payne, of certain photographs of the
monument erected in honor of the boy poet, Sulpicius, and
other material relating thereto. On motion 'of Regent
Hanchett the gift was accepted and placed in the custody of
the Librarian.
A communication from Professor Edwin C. Goddard
as executor of the will of the late Miss Pamela Noble, requested information with respect to the Regents' proposed
use of the Adelia Cheever house bequeathed to the Uni



MAY MEETING, I92r


I99


versity in the will of Miss Noble (see page 158). On motion of Regent Beal the letter was referred to the Buildings
and Grounds Committee with power.
On motion of Regent Gore the Board accepted with
thanks the gift to the Mineralogical Laboratory by Dr.
John N. Clarke, Director of the New York State Museum at
Albany, New York, of a collection of models showing the
structure and symmetry of crystals.  This gift had been
communicated to the Regents by Professor Kraus.
The following letter was presented:To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of
Michigan.
GENTLrMEN:I herewith beg to offer my resignation as Assistant
Registrar of the College of Literature, Science. and the
Arts, to take effect July I, I92I.
May I take this occasion to express my appreciation
of the kindness shown me during my years of service.
Very respectfully,
MARION C. GOODRICH.
May 26, 1921
On motion of Regent Beal the resignation of Miss
Goodrich was received with deep regret and she was recommended to the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching for the normal retiring allowance.
The President read a letter from Dr. C. G. Parnall with
respect to the building program of the new University
Hospital. No action was taken.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote except
where otherwise expressly stated.
On motion the Board adjourned to Tuesday, June 28,
1921, at 9:30 A. M.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
Secretary




SPECIAL JUNE MEETING
UNIVERSITY oIr MICHIGAN, I
ANN ARBOR, June 22, 192I X
The Board met in special session in the Regents' Room
at 9:40 A. M. Present, the President, Regent Beal, Regent
Sawyer, Regent Gore, and Regent Murfin. Absent, Regent
Leland, Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent IHanchett, and Superintendent Johnson.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board added the sum
of $ioo to the Commencement Expense Account and authorized the giving of a luncheon immediately following the
Commencement Exercises to the recipients of honorary
degrees and any other specially invited guests of the University and their hosts and hostesses.
Mr. Albert Kahn, Advisory Architect, and Professor
Shepard, Supervisor of Plans, appeared and discussed with
the Board the comprehensive building program. On motion
of Regent Murfin, the Board gave formal approval of the
following building program   as recommended by the Committee of Five (see pages 172-174):I. Addition to the Dental Building............$ 200,000
2. Land   for the  site of the  Model High
School...............................   125,000
3.  Model High  School.........................  525,000
4. Land for Engineering Shops and Laboratories  I75,oo0
5. Engineering Shops and Laboratories........ 750,00
6.  Land  for  Medical Building..................  225,000
7. Medical Building..........................  90o,ooo
8. Building for College of Literature, Science,
and   the   A rts.............................  8oo,o000
9. First unit of Physics Laboratory...........  400,000
io. For completion of present contract and other
consequent work on the Hospital, (a) as
specifically provided by the Legislature....  300,000
(b) Same, above the Legislative appropriation  300,000
II. For miscellaneous tracts of land.............  o00,000
Grand   Total..............................$4,800,000




202


SPECIAL JUNE MEETING, I92I


The estimates for buildings include equipment in each
case.
Funds available for the coming Biennium:I. Appropriated by the Legislature of 1919 for a
Model High School and immediately available......................................$   300,000
2. Appropriated by the Legislature of 1921 for
the completion of the present contracts on
the  H ospital.............................  300,000
3. Appropriated by the Legislature of 1921 for
undesignated purposes and available in.
1921-1922................................  2,250,000
4. Appropriated by the Legislature of 1921 for
undesignated purposes and available in
1922-1923................................  2,250,000
Total...................................   $5,I0oo,ooo
The balance of $300,000 in the building funds is left to
meet contingencies.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Regent Beal and the Secretary were authorized and directed to take steps toward
securing the land required for the program of building construction, with authority to secure such assistance as may
be required.
On motion of Regent Murfin, it was voted that sums
for building construction would be needed approximately
in the following amounts and in the periods stated:Before January I, 1922
H ospital..........................$5o0,o oo
Land..............................  6oo,ooo
Buildings.........................  250,000
$I,450,000
Between January I, 1922, and July I, 1922........ I,OOO,OO
Between July I, 19.22, and January I, I923........ I,00,000
Between January I, 1923, and July I, 1923........ I,000,000
After  July  I,. 1923...............................  650,ooo
T otal.......................................$5,100,000




SPECIAL JUNE MEETING, 1921


203


On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board directed that
the Secretary be authorized, in due course, to advertise for
bids on the various buildings contemplated, with the understanding that upon receipt of such bids contracts would be
let by the Board to the lowest responsible bidder.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board formally designated the firm of Perkins, Fellows, and Hamilton as architects for the Model High School; and on motion of Regent
Murfin, the Board formally designated Smith, Hinchman,
and Grylls as architects for the Engineering Shops and
Laboratories. On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board
formally designated Albert Kahn as architect for the General Building for Literature, Science, and the Arts, for the
Physics Laboratory, and for the Medical Building.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board authorized traveling expenses for Professor Shepard and for those whom
he believes necessary to take with him for inspections of
buildings at other universities or colleges.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board voted an additional Honorary Degree to be conferred at Commencement,
r92I, under the usual conditions.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board appropriated
the sum of $I,ooc for the purchase of models for the Department of Dermatology and Syphylology, with the understanding that the American Research Institute would provide an equal sum for the same purpose.
The committee consisting of President Burton and Regent Murfin, to which was referred the problem presented
by the resolution creating a Department of Physical Education (see page 120), reported as follows:(I) We recommend there be established two departments:(a) A University Department of Hygiene and
Public Health including a Department of
Physical Education.
(b) A Department of Intercollegiate Athletics.
(2) The man chosen to be in charge of the first-named
department shall be given the title of Director of Univer



204


SPECIAL JUNE MEETING, 1921


sity Hygiene and Public Health and shall have professorial
rank. He shall be Professor of Hygiene and Public Health
in the Medical School, have supervision of the University
Health Service, of all gymnasiums, and of intramural activities, and shall have such other like campus duties as from
time to time shall be assigned to him.
(3) Intercollegiate athletics shall be placed in charge
of a man to have the title of Director of Intercollegiate
Athletics. He shall be chosen by the Board of Regents and
his salary shall be paid by the Board of Regents from the
proceeds of the outdoor physical education fee. By virtue
of his position he shall be a member of the Board in Control
of Outdoor Athletics. Under their supervision and guidance he shall be responsible for coaching, training, schedulemaking, and all matters included in the business administration incident to all recognized and proper forms of intercollegiate athletics. Under the guidance and direction of the
Board of Regents, acting through the Dean of the School of
Education, he shall be likewise chargeable with the duty of
establishing, conducting, or supervising educational courses
in the training of coaches, and playground instructors, and
similar matters. He shall be responsible for the care and
upkeep of Ferry Field and shall have such other like duties
and responsibilities in connection with intercollegiate athletics as shall from time to time be assigned to him by the
Board of Regents.
(4) The salaries of coaches, assistant coaches, trainers,
business assistants, and all like items of expense incident to
the proper conduct of intercollegiate athletics shall be paid
by the Board in Control of Outdoor Athletics; the salaries
of all assistants, teachers, or instructors participating in the
giving of courses in the School of Education, as above outlined, shall be determined and paid through the School of
Education by the Board of Regents.
(5) All assistants to the Director of Intercollegiate
Athletics, in whatever branch of the work they may be engaged and whether confirmed by the Board in Control of
Outdoor Athletics or by the Board of Regents, shall in all
cases be nominated by the Director of Intercollegiate Athletics. Assistants connected with the School of Education
shall be nominated to the Board of Regents through the Dean
of the School of Education and the President of the University. Trainers, coaches, and assistants of that character




SPECIAL JUNE lMEETING, I921


205


shall be nominated directly to the Board in Control of Outdoor Athletics.
(6) The resolution of February Io (see pages 120 and
121) is hereby rescinded.
(7) The outdoor physical education fee is increased
one dollar a year, said increase to be operative at the opening of the University this coming fall. The extra dollar in
case of women as well as men is to go to the Athletic
Association.
The Secretary reported that the widow of the late Dr.
Willie C. Gates had proved to be in somewhat straitened
circumstances, in view   of which fact she was disposed to
press her claims to the residue of the estate on the basis of
the assignment which Dr. Gates had made previous to the
making of the will under which the University was to be the
beneficiary.  Until her financial condition had become apparent Mrs. Gates had been inclined to waive her rights
under this assignment. In view of these circumstances, and
also of the many complicated problems presented by the
will as drawn and by the involved condition of the property
bequeathed, on motion of Regent Murfin the Board voted
formally to renounce any claims the University might have
under this bequest (see page I64).
On motion of Regent Gore, the following salary changes
were made:
Professor Edward H. Kraus, as Professor of Mlineralogy, salary increased from $5,000 to $5,500, beginning with
the University year I92I-I922.
Professor Allen S. Whitney, as Acting Dean of the
School of Education, $I,500 per year in addition to his
salary of $5,500 as Professor of Education, beginning with
1921-1922.
Miss Margaret Cameron, title changed to Secretary of
the School of Education and of the Appointment Committee
and salary changed to $2,000 per year, I2-months' basis,
beginning July I, I92I. This increases the budget $200.
Miss Sarah Clarkson, title changed to Research Assistant in Internal Medicine and salary fixed at $I,500 per year,
12-months' basis, beginning July I, I92I. This increases the
budget $300.




206


SPECIAL JUNE MEETING, I92I


On motion of Regent Beal, and following the recommendation of Professor A. S. Whitney, Acting Dean of the
School of Education, the Board voted that the degrees to
be conferred upon graduates of the School of Education
should be Bachelor of Arts in Education and Bachelor of
Science in Education.
The Board further fixed the fees in the School of Education at the same amount as those in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board declined to direct
the printing in the program of commencement day the indication.s of "graduation with distinction" and "graduation
with high distinction."
On motion of Regent Gore, the following actions were
taken:William A. Paton, title changed from Associate Professor of Accounting to Professor of Accounting and salary
increased from $4,000 to $4,500, beginning with University
year I92I-I922.
Isador Lubin,.title changed from Instructor in Economics to Assistant Professor of Economics with increase
in salary from $2,200 to $2,500 for the University year
1921-1922.
Ross G. Walker, Instructor in Accounting, Department
of Economics, salary increased from $2,000 to $2,400 for the
University year I92I-I922.
The salaries of the following instructors in Economics
were each increased from $I,6oo to $I,750, for the University year I92I-I922:Francis E. Ross              Horace F. Clark
Edward H. Chamberlin         Carroll H. May
On motion of Regent Gore, the name of Mr. Charles H.
Griffitts which was omitted by error from the Budget of
1921-1922 as originally adopted, was included with the title
of Assistant Professor of Psychology at a salary of $2,500
for the University year I92I-I922.
On motion of Regent Gore, the salary of Professor




SPECIAL JUNE MEETING, I92I


207


Frederick C. Newcombe was fixed at $4,500, instead of
$4,400 as originally covered in the Budget for I92I-I922.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the following actions were
taken, increasing the budget of the Homoeopathic Medical
School by a total of $I,500 for the University year I921 -1922. The amount allowed for the successor of Dr. Garth
Boericke was fixed at $3,500, instead of $3,000. The salary
of Professor Hugh M. Beebe was increased from $3,300 to,
$3,800. The salary of Professor Linn J. Boyd was increased from $3,000 to $3,300. The salary of Assistant Professor Paul G. Hanna was increased from $2,000 to $2,200.
The sum of $I,500 was ordered transferred from the equipment account of the School to cover these increases in salaries.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board accepted the
resignation of Dr. Charles W. Edmunds as Assistant Dean
and Secretary of the Medical School and increased the
salary of Dr. Edmunds as Professor of Materia Medica and
Therapeutics from $6,000 to $7,000, beginning with the
University year I92I-I922.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board referred to the
Secretary for a report a request of the University Health
Service for an additional allowance to meet obligations for
hospital treatment during the present University year.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to
make an appropriation to cover the traveling expenses of
Professor John C. Parker involved in his duties as VicePresident of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers.
A communication was received from Dean Cooley and
Professor John C. Parker, urging the consideration by the
Regents of the possibility of employing professors in the
College of Engineering on full time and at a'salary increased
in commensurate degree above the present range of salaries.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board recorded the
view of the Regents that it is impossible to adopt such a
policy at present.
The President filed a memorandum suggesting the publication of the annual reports of the President the Deans,
and other administrative officers of the University. On




208,SPECIAL JUNE JMEETING, 1921


motion of Regent Gore, the Board approved this proposal.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Regents nominated to
the Alumni Association the following Alumni to be Trustees of the Alumni Fund of the University of Michigan:Ralph Stone                  Ernest L. Perry
Lawrence Maxwell             Rolla L. Bigelow
Richard R. Smith             Bertha W. Adams
Henry E. Bodman              Charles Baird
William D. McKenzie
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board added the sum
of $300 to the Non-Resident Lecture Fund provided in the
Budget of I92I-I922 and authorized an invitation to Professor Charles Cestre to deliver a course of six lectures on
"The Contribution of France to the Universal Ideals of
Mankind," with compensation of $400 for the course.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board adopted the following resolutions:Whereas, Wooster W. Beman, a graduate of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts of the University
of Michigan, with the class of I870, has been a member of
the teaching staff of that College for fifty continuous years,
and since 1887 head of the Department of Mathematics; and
Whereas, He has been a teacher of scholarly interests,
whose work has been successful to a rare degree; and
Whereas, He has ever been untiring in his devotion to
the best interests of his Alma Mater; therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Regents of the University congratulate Professor Beman upon the happy completion of
this half-century of university service and express to him
their full appreciation of the work which he has done.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board increased the salary of Miss Alice Johnson, Assistant in Charge of Binding,
University Library, from $I,300 to $I,700, beginning July
I, 1921.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board formally appointed Dean Victor C. Vaughan as Professor Emeritus in
Hygiene and Physiological Chemistry to date from July I,
I92I, when his resignation (see page I49) shall become
effective.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board gave its approval




SPECIAL JUNE MEETING, 1921


209


to an increase in the Summer Session budget not in excess
of a total of $3,000, should the same prove to be necessary
after registration for the Summer School shall be practically completed.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to increase the amount allowed in the budget for Mr. Carl
Brandt, Instructor in Public Speaking.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board authorized an increase from $2,000 to $2,400 in the salary provided for an
Instructor in English, on condition that Dean Effinger
should designate some other budget fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts from which this sum of
$400 might be transferred. Under such circumstances, the
Board approved the appointment by the President of Dr.
Louis Bredvold as Instructor in English.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board declined to provide additional compensation for the chairman of the Committee on Rooms in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board approved repairs
and alterations in the Adelia Cheever residence, (see pages
198 and 199), to an amount not in excess of $7,ooo, and also
appropriated not in excess of $7,500 for furnishing and
equipping the building.
The Secretary reported that the Executive Committee
had approved certain changes in salaries in the Department
of Geology and in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, without increasing the budget, and had declined to authorize an expense of $500 for purchases from    the De
Criscio Collection.of Latin Inscriptions.
The salary changes mentioned are as follows:Allen F. Sherzer, Assistant Professor of Mechanical
Engineering, salary increased from $2700 to $3000, the sum
of $300 involved being provided by the reduction of the
allowance for teaching assistants in Mechanical Engineering
from $2250 to $1950.
Lawrence M. Gould, Instructor in Geology, salary increased from $I60o to $I800.
Russell C. Hussey, Instructor in Geology, salary increased from $I6oo to $80oo.




210        SPECIAL JUNE MEETING, 1921
The $400 involved in these two increases was provided
by transferring that sum  from  the Geology equipment
account to the Geology salary account.
The work of labeling in the Geological Museum was
added to the duties of Miss Ellen B. Stevenson, Curator of
the Department of Geology, and the sum of $200 allowed in
the Geological Museum budget for this work was added to
her salary, making her total salary $950 for the University
year. Her status was also changed from part-time to fulltime.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the actions of the Executive Committee were approved.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board referred to the
Executive Committee with power the question whether it
was advisable to accept the offer of the Students Christian
Association of permission to use a large part of Newberry
Hall for classroom purposes on condition that the expense
of required repairs and of heat should be borne by the
University.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board directed that
vacation allowances be paid to three members of the clerical
and administrative staff who were leaving this summer after
long periods of service. All of the above actions were by
unanimous vote.
On motion, the Board adjourned to 9:30 A. M., June
28, I921.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
Secretary




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING
UNIVERSITY OV MICHIGAN, l
ANN ARBOR, June 28, I921 
The Board met in the Regents' Room at 9:40 A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Beal, Regent Hubbard, and
Regent Murfin. Absent, Regent Leland, Regent Sawyer,
Regent Clements, Regent Hanchett, Regent Gore, and
Superintendent Johnson.
In the absence of a quorum it was agreed to proceed with
business subject to confirmation of the actions taken by a
majority of the Board.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the meeting of May 27 were approved as submitted to the members
in proof with certain changes.
A request was received from Dr. R. M. Olin, State Commissioner of Health, approved by the Attorney General and
the State Administrative Board, that the Regents designate
some hospital outside Ann Arbor as a clinic to which children with certain 'diseases might be sent under Public Act
No. 274 of I9I3. This request was based on the overcrowded condition of the University Hospital and upon the
nature of the diseases which it was proposed to care for
under this request. On motion of Regent Murfin, the Regents voted that in accordance with the request of the
authority stated, the Board of Regents would authorize Dr.
Parnall, Director of the University Hospital, to designate
Fairview Hospital of Kalamazoo as such clinic, without further responsibility or expense on the part of the Regents or
the University Hospital.
The President presented a communication from Professor F. W. Kelsey now abroad, urging that the University purchase certain papyri. On motion of Regent Murfin,




212


ANNUA4L JUNE MEETING, I92z


the Board voted that the University's financial status would
not warrant this purchase.
Regent Beal called attention to the great number of
persons who could not be admitted to the commencement
exercises this year because of insufficient seating capacity in
Hill Auditorium. On his motion, the Regents voted to request the Buildings and Grounds Committee to consider the
feasibility of arranging for a larger seating capacity outdoors for Commencement and other audiences of similar
size.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board authorized the
setting up in type of the University By-Laws as prepared by
Regent Hubbard with the expectation that after the members of the Board had had opportunity to examine them in
proof-copies and to make any desired changes, the 1y-Laws
would ultimately be printed for publication.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board decided that
the Michigan Union element of the annual fee of men students should be increased from $5 to $6 beginning. with the
University year I92I-I922.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the salary of Paul Buckley, Assistant Secretary of the University, was fixed at
$4,coo per year beginning July I, I92I.
The President reported for Regent Murfin and himself
(see page 203) that the position of Director of Intercollegiate Athletics had been tendered to Fielding -I. Yost at a
salary of $7,500 per year beginning July I and that Mr. Yost
had accepted the appointment.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Secretary was directed
to prepare a schedule designating each Regent in turn as
the committee to initial the University vouchers.
The Secretary reported the following resignations, appointments, and other changes in the University staff as
authorized by the President under the legislation of the
Board (see page 23):RESIGNATIONS AND DECLINATIONS
Robert E. Reed, Assistant Gardener, Botanical Garden,
resigned June 15, I92I.
Fern M. Luther, Stenographer, Medical Out Patient




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, I921


213


Department, Internal Medicine, University Hospital, resigned May 31.
Margaret V. Cobb, Secretary, Bureau of Tests and
Measurements, resigned as of May 14.
Leon H. Leonian, Carl Braun Fellowship, resigned
March I.
APPOINTMENTS
COLLIEGI OF LI*TRATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Bureau of Tests and Measurements
Helen Davis, Acting Secretary, vice Margaret V. Cobb,
resigned, for three periods from June 23 to July 5, inclusive, full time; July 6 to August 26, inclusive, one-quarter
time; August 27 to September IO, inclusive, full time, $200
per month.
Industrial Education
Frank R. Kepler, Instructor, two hours per week in
Detroit, from February 21 to June 30, $50 per month.
COLLEGES Of ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
Surveying
Barnett Brezner, Student Assistant at Camp Davis for
I6 weeks of the summer session of I92I, $31.25 per week
or $500 for the period.
J. M. Sessions, Student Assistant at Camp Davis for 12
weeks of the summer session of 1921, $31.25 per week or
$375 for the period.
H. G. McNamee, Student Assistant at Camp Davis for
I6 weeks of the summer session of 1921, $31.25 per week or
$500 for the period.
H. R. Carpenter, Student Assistant at Camp Davis for
I6 weeks of the summer session of I92I, $31.25 per week or.$500 for the period.
FELLOWSHIPS
Carl Braun
Anah Lenore McQuinn, vice Leon H. Leonian, resigned,
for summer of I92I, with stipend of $2co for the period.
Detroit Edison Company
Harold E. Gladhill, second semester, stipend of $375 for
the period.




214


AVANNUAL JUNE MlEET[NG, 1921


On motion of Regent Murfin, the sum of $8,500 was
added to the Hospital Fund of the University Health Service to meet the hospital expenses contracted by the Health
Service (see page 207).
Dr. John E. Weeks of New York City, of the Class of
I87I, appeared before the Regents and presented to them
$Io,ooo in New York Central Railroad 6% bonds, the condition of the gift being that the interest only should be used
to provide a scholarship in Ophthalmology, the award to be
made each year approximately at Commencement time by a
committee of three consisting of the Dean of the Medical
School, the Professor of 'Ophthalmology, and the Secretary
of the University.  Research work carried on under this
scholarship is to be under the direction of the Professor of
Opthalmology.   A beneficiary may receive the award for
two years in succession if the committee so decide, but
no beneficiary is to receive the award more than twice. On
motion of Regent Murfin, the gift was accepted with the
gratitude of the Board, in accordance with its terms, and
the scholarship was designated: The John E. Weeks Scholarship Fund for Research Work in Ophthalmology.
The Secretary read the following letter:TRUST ANUMBER I503
University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Attention of Mr. Shirley W. Smith, Secretary.
GENTLErMN:This Company is acting' as trustee under the will of the
late Charles A. Kent, whose death occurred in May, I917.
Under Mr. Kent's will certain personal property was left in
trust for the benefit of his wife, Frances C. Kent, during
her life, and upon her death the principal thereof is to be
distributed to certain educational and charitable institutions.
A copy of Mr. Kent's will is enclosed, from which you
will note the provision referred to, which is as follows:"Whatever portion of my estate, real and personal,
may turn out not disposed of herein, I give and bequeath to the following charities, to be a part of the
permanent funds of each, of which only the income
shall be used:




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 1921


215


TO THE) UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, to become a part of the JAMES B. ANGELL FUND, onefourth," etc., etc.
Mrs. Kent died February I9, I92I, and the property distributable under the above provision of the will consists of
stocks and bonds which were appraised at approximately
$I48,ooo.oo as of the date of Mr. Kent's death, the share of
the University of Michigan therein being about $37,000.00
on that basis.
We will soon be in a position to distribute this property
to the beneficiaries and ask that you kindly have the proper
officer of your institution get in touch with us in order that
the property may be promptly turned over when available
for that purpose.
Very truly yours,
SECURITY TRUST COMPANY.
WALTER B. HAYEs, Trust Officer.
Detroit, Michigan, June I5, 1921
The Secretary stated that so far'as the records disclosed
the James B. Angell fund was to be used for the benefit of
the University at the discretion of the President (see Proceedings I90I-I906, pages 5I9 and 589).
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Regents accepted the
bequest under the will of the late Professor Kent and authorized the Secretary to receipt for and receive the
proceeds.
The Secretary presented to the Regents the advantages
which would accrue from making a flat-rate contract with
the Federal Board for Vocational Education, in view of the
difficulties involved in the accounting relations between the
University and the Federal Government on the basis of the
annual departmental fees now charged students sent to the
University by the Federal Board. On motion of Regent
Beal, the Secretary was authorized to make a contract on
the basis of the suggested rates, which it is assumed will
provide net proceeds approximately equal to the proceeds
under the present individual fees.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board referred to the
Executive Committee with power the offer from the Trustees of the Students Christian Association to allow the use
of Newberry Hall for class room and other University pur



2 16


ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 192I


poses. Under the same motion, the Executive Committee
was further requested to confer with Mr. Heath of the
Michigan Union and others interested in the question of a
suitable place for a University "little theater," with power
to take such action as the Committee might deem best.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board named Assistant Professor Robert J. Carney as Superintendent of the
Chemical Laboratory Dispensing Room, with the understanding that he 'would give his full time during July,
August, and September to the re-organization work and
would take general charge of the dispensing service during
the University year I92I-I922, with total compensation for
this service of $I,ooo, which sum was added to the budget.
On motion of Regent Murfin, Mr. Louis Eich was appointed Assistant Professor of Public Speaking for the University year I92I-I922 with a salary of $2,500 as provided
in the budget.
On motion of Regent Murfin, Mr. Herschel C. Smith
was appointed Assistant Professor of Highway Engineering for the University year I921-I922 with compensation
of $3,000 as provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Murfin, Mr. Everett S. Brown
was appointed Assistant Professor of Political Science for
the University year I92I-I922 with compensation of $2,500
as provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Murfin, Assistant Professor Harry
L. Campbell was requested to give his full time during the
summer school period in the Engineering Shops and the
sum of $550 was provided as compensation to him for this
service during the period.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board approved the
appointment of Henriette Scranton as Social Director of
the Adelia Cheever House, with compensation of $30 per
month and room and board, from September I, I921, to
June 30, 1922. The compensation will be payable by the
Advisory Board of the Adelia Cheever House.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board referred to the
Executive Committee with power the request of Dean
Cooley for the advancement of Assistant Professor Edward
L. Adams to an Associate Professorship.




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 1921


217


On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board referred to the
Salaries Committee with power changes which were recommended by Dean Cooley in the salaries of Assistant Professors Wells I. Bennett and Martin J. Orbeck.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board continued through
the year I921-I922 the leave of absence without salary of
Professor William   L. Miggett, Superintendent of Engineering Shops.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board declined to
authorize the carrying over of balances in the publication
fund and in the fellowship accounts of the Graduate School.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board approved the
following changes in fees of certain graduate students:i. Regularly appointed holders of fellowships and
scholarships in the Graduate School and members of the
Faculty including instructors who are regularly admitted
students in the Graduate School shall be exempt from payment of the usual annual fee.
2. A uniform annual tuition fee of $25.00 (with the
usual percentage reductions for periods of one semester or
less) is established for all persons enrolled as graduate students who are taking extension courses, studying in absentia,
working on theses without studies in course, or following
the so-called part-time plan with not more than five hours
in any semester.
3. These changes are effective September 20, I92I.
4. The amount of the usual tuition fee for any graduate student regularly enrolled and not otherwise considered
in these recommendations in cases of any doubt shall be
referred to the President, the Secretary of the University,
and the Dean of the Graduate School for determination in
accordance with the above general principles.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to consider at this time the provision of a house for the gardener
at the Botanical Gardens on Packard Street.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to
take action re-appointing Assistant Professor A. F. Greiner
for the University year I92I-I922.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to provide additional staff members of the College of Architecture.




2 I 8


ANNIVUAL JUNE MEETING, I92I


On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board added $650 to
the salary budget of the Clinic of Dental Surgery and directed that the sum be used to provide an increase of $300
in the salary of Dr. LaVerne H. Andrews, Instructor in
Prosthetic Technics, $I50 in the salary of the instructor in
Orthodontia to be appointed, and $200 in the salary of Mr.
E. O. Scott, Instructor in Dental Metallurgy.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, $80 was added to the
Current Expense Budget of the Department of Public
Speaking for the year I920-I92I.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the following ladies, nominated by the Dean of Women, were appointed as the Board
of Advisers of the Adelia Cheever House, for the respective
periods stated, with the provision that should the Regents
establish a new policy of government for the residence halls
for women, the appointments herein recorded might be terminated as circumstances might require:Mrs. Edson R. Sunderland to June 30, I922.
Mrs. Charles Washburn and Mrs. Calvin 0. Davis to
June 30, I923.
Mrs. Justina Spottswood Robins and Mrs. Edwin C.
God!dard to June 30, 1924, and the Dean of Women exofficio.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board approved a
room-rental fee for the Adelia Cheever House of $55 per
semester.
On motion of Regent Beal following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, the Board amended the requirements for
graduation from that College by including in Group III all
courses in Geography, and by opening to freshmen the introductory courses in this sub-department with the provision
that no freshman student may elect the introductory courses
in both Geology and Geography except by special permission.
On motion of Regent Beal following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, the Board authorized the issue of a special
certificate in Geology to students completing I30 or more
hours embodying the work outlined in any one of the special




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 1921


219


programs in Geology and satisfying the requirements for
graduation, provided that such person shall be nominated
for the certificate by the Department of Geology and be
recommended by the Faculty of the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts. A fee of $2 shall be charged for
the certificate.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board approved the
appointment recommended by the Board of Governors of
Betsy Barbour House, of Miss Eleanor Sheldon as Social
Director of the Betsy Barbour House for I92I-I922 at a
salary, paid by the Board of Governors, of $I45 per month,
and the appointment of Miss Lilah Giesenheiner as Business Manager of the Betsy Barbour HIouse at a salary of
$II5 per month paid by the Board of Governors. A change
in the plan of administration, proposed by the Board of
Governors, was not acted upon at this time.
No action was taken upon the question of more definite
regulations than now exist for the use of Barbour Gymnasium  which question was raised by a communication of
Director Marion O. Wood.
A communication of D. W. Springer with respect to an
expansion of the social service work and laboratory work
at the Homoeopathic Hospital was laid upon the table until
the first meeting in the autumn.
A communication from Dean Lloyd informed the Regents that the National Aniline and Chemical Company had
renewed its two fellowships of $750 each for the University
year 192I-I922. On motion of Regent Murfin, these gifts
were accepted with thanks.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board authorized
payment from the I920-I92I budget for the announcement
of the Graduate School even though such bulletin would not
be actually used until after the beginning of the fiscal year
I92I-I922.
Librarian Bishop notified the Board of a gift from Professor Alexander Ziwet of 2930 volumes and I414 pamphlets comprising a very valuable collection of mathematical
material and also a large number of works upon Greek and
Latin literature. On motion of Regent Beal, this gift was
accepted with the grateful appreciation of the Board.




220


ANNUAL JUNE IMEETING, 92sI


Librarian Bishop also gave notice that the Detroit Public
Library had sent to the University Library as an exchange
860 volumes of the Specifications and Drawings of the
United States Patent Office covering the period from May
30, 1871 through I9II. While this gift was formally on the
exchange account, the number of volumes and their value in
research work led the Regents to pass a special vote of
thanks to the Detroit Public Library.
Professor Stanley notified the Regents that Miss Carrie
Frieze had presented to the Department of Music for the
University Library a small but valuable collection of bound
and unbound music including several early American hymn
and tune books, an early orchestral score of the "Messiah,"
and a very rare old French psalter. On motion of Regent
Hubbard, the Regents expressed their thanks for this
generosity.
Dean Cooley communicated gifts as follows:From the Jefferson Forge Products Company, a collection of crankshafts, camshafts, connecting rods, and transmission gears for use on a number of standard variety
motor cars.
From the Gramm-Bernstein Motor Truck Company of
Lima, Ohio, transmission for use on 2X2 ton truck.
These two gifts were for the Department of Mechanical
Engineering. There was also received for the Department
of Surveying from Mr. Patrick VA. Keating of Detroit,
Michigan, a transit of French manufacture, of unique design and great historic interest.  On motion of Regent
Murfin, these gifts were accepted with the thanks of the
Regents.
On motion of Regent Murfin following the recommendation of the Homoeopathic Medical School, the degree of
Doctor of Medicine was conferred upon the persons named
below:Hugh Angus Cameron, M.D., Richard Benjamin Penzotti,
Hahnemann College, Phila-  A.B., Albion College
delphia                 Wilbur Warren Williams,
Horace Lester French        M.D., Eclectic Medical ColHoward Henry Harpst, A.B.,  lege, Cincinnati
Toledo University
On motion of Regent Beal and upon recommendation of




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 1921               221
Dr. Parnall, Director, certificates of graduation from the
University Hospital Training School for Nurses were
voted to the following, upon the usual conditions that the
certificate should not be effective unless the candidate should
complete her actual training course and then it should bear
the date of such completion.


Iva Vine Allen
Sigrid Ellen Christine
Anderson
Georgiana Ruth Armstrong
Ella Mae Arnold
Hilmna Marie Asikainen
Ruthl Jewell Ballamy
Margaret Graham Bartlett
Emma, May Becker
Frances Wilfred! Berta
Hannah Marie Binhammer
Eleanor Isabel Blanchard
Jean Hillis Blizard
Amelia Bodenmiller
Blanche Ethyl Bolley
Marjorie Gertrude Breen
Helen Gertrude Cliff
Martha Naomi Davey
Mary Marguerite Dunning
Judith Regina Engberg
Helena M. Eviston
Anna Belle Fisher
Roberta. Elizabeth Foote
Grace Louise Gilbert
Susan Sunbeam Grainger
Margaret Graves
Helen Marie Hansen
Edna Hartt
Virginia Howell Hartwell
Sybil Holmes Haskins
Margaret Elizabeth Stump
Herzberg
Agnes Claudene Hopley
Grace Marie Hunes
Myrtle Lennea. Johnson
Alma Lauraine Jorgensen
Gertrude Hendrey Judd, A.B.
University of Nebraska
Alma Christine Julsrud
Anna Marie Kurre


Naomi Ruth LaRue
Grace Estelle Law
Margaret Hope Lyons
Rhea Erlamond MacGlinch
Bessie McKinstry
Burnice McNamara
Margaret Lorraine Mason
Helen Louise Merrill
Alice Lillian Moag
Opal Moore
Flora May Newking, A.B.,
Hunter College
Lucille Rose Ohland
Frances Mary Pasche
Mary Bliss Paquette
Edna Dora Petersen
Helen Fraser Platt
Rosamond Praeger, A.B.,
Smlith College
Ruth Elizabeth Purdy
Mary Sinclair Rainnie
Hope Recker
Georgia Ruth Russell
Frances Barbara Schleeter
Katherine Ruth. Sill
Dean Sophia Smithwick
Lena Alice Spence
Ruby Gertrude Spring
Lefa Wilson Stice
Sayde Leona Tapson
Elsie Maye Turner
Helen Rose Vyn
Barbara Helen West, A.B.,
University of Chicago
Olive Marie AWesteen
Fannie Mary Wood
Helen Marguerite Woodbury
Esther Eleanore Woodruff
Eva Emily Young


On motion of Regent Murfin, the following appointments and changes in the teaching staff of the Summer Session as recommended by Dean Kraus, were approved with
the understanding that the budget was not increased thereby.




222


ANNiUAL JUNTE MEETING, I921
COLLCEG  OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
HOURS     SALARY
Education
tant Edna Gordon.................           $IOo.OO


Assist


The appointment of Mr. AWarren K.
Layton to be cancelled.
English
Instructor George A. Kuyper............ 64
The appointment of Professor Louis
A. Strauss to be cancelled.
History
Professor Paul VanBrunt Jones........ 32
The appointment of Professor Arthur
L. Cross to be cancelled.
Rhetoric
Assistant  Herbert  Slusser...............
COLLEGES OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
il7athematics
Instructor Granville D. Jones............ 64
Survey' incg
Instructor Edward Young................
Assistant Charles L. Tomlinson..........
Assistant Emery T. Toogood............
BIOLOGICAL STATION
r^ —.4- Aia:,.  T, -_ _ T\  T-  -> I r 1


28,3.33
423..00
200.00
283.33
425.00
200.00
200.00


ULUOtiNll  INU  rla eyrnoli.......... yl ll  300.00
Bacteriolocgy
Instructor Robert H. Breakev............  200.00
A communication was received through Dean Effinger
from Professors Thomas C. Trueblood, Louis A. Strauss,
J. Raleigh Nelson, Richard D. T. Hollister, Fred N. Scott,
and Instructor Jean B. Cloppet, desiring the re-construction
of the old University Hall auditorium to meet the needs of
classes in literature and dramatics. On motion of Regent
Beal, this matter was referred to the Executive Committee
with power.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board laid upon the
table a request from Professor Cabot and Dr. Parnall for
an appropriation to cover the appointment of an illustrator
for publications of the staff of the University Hospital.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board approved the
appointment of Dr. C. T. Hall as Assistant Oral Surgeon at
the University Hospital with compensation of $I,ooo per
year, which compensation it was expected would be covered
by fees charged at the Hospital for his work. This appointment is for the year I92I-I922 on the twelve-months' basis.




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, I921


223


On motion of Regent Murfin, Dr. Carl W. Eberbach,
present Instructor in Surgery, was given the additional title
of Assistant to the Dean of the Medical School with additional compensation of $I,200 for the University year 192II922 on the twelve-months' basis.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board referred to the
President, Regent Sawyer, and Dean Cabot with power the
question of making an appointment to the chair of Internal
Medicine.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to
employ a firm of accountants to make a preliminary survey
of the methods of management of the University Hospital.
The President presented a letter from   Professor Henry
C. Adams tendering his resignation as Professor of Economics to be effective with the close of the University year
I920-I92I.   On motion of Regent Murfin, the following
resolution was adopted:Whereas, Henry Carter Adams, Professor of Political
Economy and Finance and Head of the Department of Economics since 1887, feels compelled on account of continued
ill health tot present his resignation, and
Whereas, Professor Adams has long been one of the
leading members of the University Faculty and in general
a man of wide experience and international reputation;
therefore, be it
Resolved, That in accepting his resignation, which the
Board does with extreme regret, the Regents give expression to their profound appreciation of his long and successful service, which has brought fame to the University
as well as himself, and that they further especially recognize the great part which he has played in the development
of this University; and, be it further
Resolved, That Professor Henry C. Adams be appointed Professor Emeritus o: Political Economy and
Finance.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That Henry C. Adams be recommended to
the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching for the normal retiring allowance.




224


ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, I921


On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board formally authorized the organization of the Department of Economics
upon the Committee System for the year I92I-I922 and
named Professor F. M. Taylor as chairman.
The President reported a gift from the Hon. Chase S.
Osborne of the sum of $5,ooo to provide a special fellowship under which the poet, Robert Frost, should be invited
to take up his residence in Ann Arbor during the year I92I1922 and to participate in the life of the University in such
manner and to such extent as might prove feasible. On
motion of Regent Beal, and by a rising vote this generous
gift was accepted with the sincere thanks of the Regents
and the President was authorized to extend an invitation
to Mr. Frost in accordance therewith.
The President filed a letter from Director Parnall of
the University Hospital with respect to the hospital budget
for the year 1921-1922. On motion of Regent Murfin, this
entire question was referred to the Executive Committee
with power.
Upon the request of Mrs. W. D. Henderson, Secretary
of the Alumnae Council, the Regents named the Treasurer
of the University as the official custodian of funds received
or to be received for the construction, equipment, and endowment of the proposed Women's Building.
On motion of Regent Murfin. the Board appropriated
the sum of $400 to cover the expense of providing offices
for the School of Education in Tappan Hall.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the salary of Professor
C. S. Berry was adjusted at $3,200 for four-fifths time for
the University year 1921-I922. This action added $200 to
the budget.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to
allow any balance remaining in the salary budget of the
Department of Pathology to be carried over into the salary
budget of 1921-I922.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board referred to the
Executive Committee with power the request for an additional assistant in the Department of Psychiatry.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board authorized the
erection of an addition to the maternity ward at the Uni



ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 192I


225


versity Hospital provided funds should be made available
from the appropriations for the general building program.
Librarian Bishop communicated to the Regents a gift
from Mr. Fred W. Sanders of Detroit, Michigan, of a considerable number of play bills, theater programs, and portraits of actors and actresses, the collection being of considerable importance in the history of the drama in the
United States and Great Britain. On motion of Regent
Murfin, this gift was accepted with thanks.
On motion of Regent Beal, Associate Professor Wilbur
R. Humphreys was named as Assistant Dean of the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts for the University year
I92I-1922 with a salary of $I,ooo, as provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Murfin and upon the recommendation of the proper faculties in each case, degrees were conferred as follows:BACHXELOR OF SCIENCE (IN MEDICINE)
Robert Stanley Buol        Oza Joseph La Barge
William Alfred Corcoran   Haydn Palmer
Stewart Edward Doolittle  tMargaret Rottschaefer
Charles Edward Futch      John Ferdinand Sander
Orla Hilliard Gillett      David Jacob Sandweiss
Arthur Fisher Heyl         Joseph Schwartzberg
Minard Friedberg Jacobs    Suel Andrews Sheldon
Arthur Dale Kirk          *Benjamin Shlain
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN FORESTRY)


John Scott Barnes
tDow Vawter Baxter
*Allis Fountain Hussey
Edward Winchester Littlefield
BACHELOR O SCIENCE
*Leigh Charles Anderson
Eunice Gertrude Garrett
John Franklin Ross
Carrie Cecelia Smith


Howard Mason Lumsden
William Joseph Seidel
Harry Darvin Thorn
Karl Nye Tunnicliffe
(IN CHEMISTRY)
*Malcolm Herman Soule
*Donalee Levi Tabern
Harold Gilbert Whitcomb


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE
Roy William Grumbine           Leroy Grant Snow
Lanette B. Kern                Ernest Arvin Stiller
Lewis Edgar Munz               Harold Percy Ullman
Agapito Rey                    Charles Alton Vail
Lucile Mary Rice               Brayton William   Westcott
* Graduated "With Distinction."
* Graduated "With High Distinction."




226


ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 1921


BACHELOR OF ARTS


Ikarold Quantic Abell
Avon D. Adams
Evah Gertrude Anderson
Gertrude Olivia Anderson
Hans Peter Andreasen
tRobert Cooley Angell
William Farley Angell
Octave Antonio
Edith Loetta Apfel
Ethel Lucile Apfel
Dorothy Arbaugh
Helen Lucile Arnot
Alla Lucile Asire
Joseph Alfred Avery
Marjorie Beatrice Avery
Orpha Mae Ayres
Ruby Elliott Ayres
Lenore Bader
Lucelia Myrle Badgley
Helen Tarleton Bailey
*Rena Emmaline Bailey
'John Palmer Ballman
Thelma Jule Bang
Charles Darwin Banks
*Harlow Carpenter Barber
Harold Emerson Barnes
Marguerite Barrell
Narcena Elsie Bassett
Charles Stewart Baxter
Esther Caroline Beck
Bess Parham Becker
*Alice Evelyn Beckham
Beatrice Nan Beckwith
tKarl Mathias Beierlein
Alvira Barbara Bellows
Lucile Beecher Bennett
Margaret Jessie Berkaw
William Lloyd Berridge
Marie Marguerite Bertrau
Harry Guy Bevington
Helen Bidwell
Alice Henrietta Blair
Lydia Jane Blount
LeRoy Boettcher
*Velda Jane Bogert
Archie Lee Bogue
*Joe Berle Bond
Alma Podesta Boone
Harold Frederick Boron
Earl Francis Boxell
* Graduated "With Distinction."


Esther Lou Boyd
Mary Eleanore Boyer
Paul Snodgrass Brady
Edwin Albert Brainerd
Henry Norman Brand
Fitzhugh Lee Brewer
*Julia Elizabeth Brittain
William L. Bromley
tBertrand Harris Bronson
fLois E. Brooks
Aubrey David Brown
Beulah Brown
Ethel Alberta Brown
Eunice Anne Brown
Oscar Abraham Brown
Roland Packard Brown
Blanche Louise Bryan
*Isabella Bryce
Frances Catherine Buckbee
Mary Florence Buckbee
Robert Frank Buechner
*John Clifford Bugher
Beatrice Erma Bunting
Gladys Marie Burch
*Laverne Burchfield
Paul Whitaker Burkholder
Gladys May Burnett
Leo Ammerman Burns
Lyle Timothy Burr
Bernice Genevieve Bush
Laura Aline Cake
Margaret Jeanette Cameror
tChesser Milburn Campbell
Sara Gertrude Caplan
Lottie Mae Carson
May Louise Carson
Kathryn Clay Casey
Marguerite Alderson
Cavendish
Edward Derosier Cayia
Mary Creamer Chandler
Fei Peng Chen
Te Hung Chen
Chung Ki Chow
Irene Kathryn Cicotte
Ellen Marie Carlson Clark
Marguerite Alma Clark
*Ruth Marie Cleary
John Winfield Close
Harry Maurice Cohn


t Graduated "With High Distinction."




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 1921


227


Katharine Margaret Colcord
Alice Calhoun Comfort
Ava Catherine Comin
James Ernest Comin
Wade Parks Connell
Addison Porter Cook
*Neil Estes Cook
Frances Marie Cooney
Stella May Cooper
Laurie Elinor Kaufman Cork
Edith Marian Couper
William, Vernon Cox
Mary Blanche Crandall
Marion L. Creaser
tLloyd Kenneth Crippen
Fannie Marion Crohn
Marie Anne Crozier
Charles Lyman Cruikshank
Joseph Winter Cummings
Robert AtLee Curran
Ruth Murel Curtis
Charles Danto
Allen Lynn Darr
*Elwyn George Davies
Frank Guy Davis
Mary Ottilie Davis
Tella Lucia Davis
Wilma Marion Bailais Davis
Gertrude Dorotha Dawson
Edward Marion DenHerder
Waldo Fairfield Desmond
Lois Barlow De Vries
Melvin Neil Dick
Karl Adams Dietrich
Harry Dixon
*Daphine Winifred Dodd
Dorothy Elnora Dodds
Darl Stanley Doverspike
Elmer Barr Downey
Robert Lincoln Drake
Louise Jamieson Duncan
Dorothy Inglis Dunlap
Marthena Drybread
John Francis Dunn
Albert Glenn Duty
Paul William Eaton
Emily Gibb Edwards
Harold John Ellis
Violet Oneita Emmons
Anne Martha Engel
Winifred Dixie England
Jack Harvey Evans
* Graduated "With Distinction."? Graduated "With High Distinctioi


Ora Louise von Ewegen
Earle Edlin Ewins
Edna Marie Exley
Carrie Fairchild
Almond Crockett Fairfield
Ben Church Fairman
Leonard White Ferris
Byron Fiske Field
*Lee Webster Finch
James Crampton Finn
Helen Jean Fisher
Wendell Thomas Fitzgerald
Frederic Stark Fletcher
Margaretta Phipps Fletcher
Mary Cecelia Fohey
Philip Oglesby Foley
Melba Marie Foltz
Margaret Lucille Foote
David Alexander Forbes
Evelyn Foster
Izora Lillian Foster
Florence Eleanor Fox
Claristine Catherine Frankfurth
Austin Miller Frease
Randall White Burns French
*Carola Ferne Fritz
Thelma Carstens Fry
Adelaide Louise Fulkerson
Eleanor Wood Fuller
Lozier Ray Funk
George Weedon Gardner
Jack Russell Gardner
George Taltton Gaskins
Rhoda Aileen Pierson Gault
Josephine Fraser Gifford
Marian Louise Gill
Wanda Tracy Gillingham
Minetta Marie Goetz
Nettie Goldberg
Wentworth Abraham Goldberg
Doris Gracey
Joanna Albecca Graham
Frances Louise Graves
*Charl Ennis Greene
John Luther Greene
Lois Isabelle Greene
Glenna Houck, Griffin
Hunter Gill Griffith
Mary -Abb6 Griswold
Helen Elizabeth Groff




228


ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, I92I


Eunice May Grover
*Rose Victoria Gutterman
Ernestine Jessie Hall
Carl Edwin Hammond
Marion Handley
Gratia Hanley
John Leonard Hanley
William Hanshoe
*Mildred Pearl Harris
Harold William Hawkins
*Carolyn Eliza Hayes
*Junetta Christine Heinonen
Edith Hellman
Earl Lee Hemenway
Mary S. Henderson
Daniel Robert Herkimer
tAbraham Herman
Harold Herman
Louis George Herrmann
James Loring Hess
Franklin Brokaw Hettinger
Carol Josephine Heysett
William Arthur Hickmott
Alice Bertha Hinkson
Thomas Doane Hinshaw
Helen Esther Hitchcock
Leigh Hoadley
Dean Rutter Hogue
Esther Darling Hollands
Dorothy Frances Hollis
Josephine Ellen Hoover
Nat Wallace Hopkins
Dorothy Blatchley Hoyt
Cecil Arthur Hubbard
Vernon Coleman Huffman
Harry Addison Hulse
Pauline Humphrey
Mildred Winegar Hunt
Justus Robert Huntley
Perry Parrish Hutchinson
Clifford J. Hutton
Amelia Meredith Igel
*Henry Earle Illick
Reta Fern Ireman
Pauline Elisabeth Ittner
Frederick Elroy Jacob
tAlbert Charles Jacobs
tEmma Grace Jacobs
Saul Joseph Jaffe
Hugh Jameson
Max Benjamin Jaslow
Reginald Joslyn Jeavons
* Graduated "With Distinction."
G Graduated "With High Distinctio:


*Alice M. Johnson
Katherine Harriet Johnson
Mary Lucile Johnson
Olga Marie Johnson
William, Harcourt Johnstone
*Harold Andrew Jones
Ada Eliza Joost
Frank Hurin Jordan
Dwight Page Joyce
Earl Howard Juers
Anthony Kabacinski
*Ivor Jarmin Kahn
Clyde Walter Kammerer
Rosalind Harryet Yeska
Kasanin
Zita Kasper
*Edwin Delamater Kay
William Shannon Keaver
Ralph Bostater Kelly
Phebe Anita Kelsey
Abraham, Kenigson
*Anna Thompson Kent
James Purvis Kerr
Frances Benvenuta Kervin
Dorothy Kingsford
Harold Lake Kinyon
Mary Snyder Kirkpatrick
Robert Williams Kneebone
Margaret Gould Knisely
Helen Ruth Koch
Benjamin George Kohn
Helen Kolb
Gertrude Esther Auer
Kromer
Warren Eugene KudnerElla Mae Dyer Kuhn
Henrietta. Laura Kuieck
Noi Hoh Kwok
John Schnelby Kyser
*Mary Louise Lacy
Misha Laddon
Harriet Elizabeth Lamberson
Mary Dorothy Lane
Josephine Violet Lang
tIva Holmes Lawrence
Mildred Latham Lawton
Elinor Dorothy Leonard
Cecile Mildred Levy
En-Ko Li
Edna Bessie Lieblein
*Anna G. Lindemulder
Nelson Miller Lincoln




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, I921


229


Harold Payne Lindsay
tJulia Lockwood
Boyd Hugo Logan
Mary Ruth Lohrstorfer
George Herbert Longstaff
Nathan Francis Lorah
Harold F. Lusk
Morris C. Luskin
Edwin Howard Lyon, Jr.
Thomas Francis Lyons
Jean McAllister
Lawrence Perry McArthur
Bernarda Frazer McCormick
Ella McCully
Clarence Roy McDonald
Harold Charles McDonald
Margaret Helen MacDougall
Madeline Leitch MacGregor
Mary Josephine McGuineas
Robert Edwin McKean
Lewis Lattimore Mackey
Ruth Virginia MacLaren
Myra McLaughlin
Peirce McLouth
John Everett McManis
Francis Lachlan McPhail
*Armand Victor McPhee
Jeanne Irene McPherson
Martha Alma Madison
Forrest Allen Madlem
*Gertrude Maginn
Vera Mains
Frances Marshall Maire
George Washington Manderbach
Walter Fitch Manley
Walter Peter Marron
Luella Gillette Marsh
Marjorie Marian Marsh
Howard Blair Marshall
Homer Leslie Martin
Harry L. Marvin
tPerry.Empey Mason
tHelen Elizabeth Master
Emma Clarissa Matthews
Howard Charles Matthews
Agnes Virginia Maxwell
Evelyn Naomi Maxwell
Frances Sweet Meader
William Henry Messinger
Kathryn Michael
Helen Elizabeth Miller
* Graduated "With Distinction."


Ralph Kennedy Miller
Emma Jane Minor
tAnne Louise Mitchell
Martha Alvine Mohnke
Dorothy Fern Monfort
tMarcella B. Moon
*Katherine Ruth Morrissey
tElinor Mullett
Lillian Mae Munro
Charles Holton Murchison
Helen Edwina Murphy
Joseph Murphy
John Harley Mutchler
Marion Pauline Mutchler
*Arthur Frederick Neef
tNeva Marguerite Nelson
Norman Carl Nelson
Pauline L. Newton
Lucretia Marie Nicholson
Hulda Martha Christine
Nicolai
Milton Alfred Nicolai
Richard de Nobel
Frank John Novak
'Jean Scilley Nutter
Frances Willard Oberholtzer
Dorothy Geraldine O'Connor
Winifred O'Connor
Grace Ohlmacher
Blanche Ellen O'Kane
Leah Barton Olin
Marion Katherine Oliver
Dick Oosterbaan
as of the class of I918
Margaret Honora O'Reilly
Annette Evalyn Orenstein
'Esther Mary Pafenbach
tDessa Kingsley Palmerlee
George Edward Parker, Jr.
Helen Lydia Parker
\Vera Gladys Parker
Walter Carl Paulin
Carroll David Paulson
Elizabeth Hilton Payne
Mildred Elizabeth Peabody
Irene Theodora Peers
Clarence Theodore Pennoyer
Everard Ferguson Perkins
John Stephenson Perrin
Dorothy Bell Pettit
Fred J. Petty
Arthur Eugene Pierpont


t Graduated "With High Distinction."




230


ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 1921


Jean Elizabeth Pilston.Esther Pinkham
William Frank Poorman
Cecil Gordon Porter
Donald James Porter
Egbert Ralph Post
Walter Lim Poy
Kathryn Carolyn Prakken
Minnie Louise Pratt
Genevieve Miinie Prestidge
Jesse Willard Probst
Thomas Rimes Pullen
Catharine Elizabeth Marv
Purtell
Sara Grace Rabinowitz
Martha Vivian Ramsay
William Madison Randall
Henry Joseph Ranft
Hilda Lillian Rayson
Helen Frances Reade
Myrtle Rowena Reed
Glen Merle Reem
Estell Maud Reid
tGladys Kathryn Reineke
Edmund William   Reisig
Mlbert Russel Renwick
'Mildred Richie Reynolds
Stanley Burnett Reynolds
*Vera A. Reynolds
Margaret Luella Rhines
Donald Eber Rhodes
Muza Meredith Rice
Robert Burns Richardson
as of the class of 1920
Fern Ruggles Richtig
Dorothy Adele Rider
I-Elizabeth Mary Roberts
'*Marguerite Rebecca Rochat
Madeline Roof
Alida Frances Rogers
Pearl Josephine Rosen
Irene Jeannette Rosenberg
tSamuel Robert Rosenthal
Hubert Nicholas Rousselle
Prudence Mills Rowe
Mildred Gertrude Ruess
Gail Edward Rush
Donald Bert Russell
*Dorothy Samuelson
Charlotte Sands
tlrene Sauble
Joanna Ruth Savage
* Graduated "With Distinction."
* Graduated "With High Distinction.


tKatrina Schermerhorn
Leo Anton Schmidt
Joel Franklin Schoerger
*Irma Schreiber
Robert Francis Schultz
George Arthur Robert
Schuster
'"Irene Agnes Scollon
James Mark Scoville, Jr.
'Charles Dalton Seagley
Paul Smith Seaman
Theodore Clement Sedgwick
*Martha Seeley
Frederick Stanley Sell
as of the class of 1918
Ruth Elizabeth Sergeant
Mary Josephine Shaffer
tClara Maude Sharpe
Philip Martin Shaw
Donald Canning Shelton
Shou Tse Shen
tMildred Percival Sherman
Harvey Lister Sherwood
tSimon Shetzer
James Seberon Shields
Martha Lucille Shirkey
M\ark Mercer Shoemaker
Otto Richard Sielaff
John Dewey Simon
Aileen Amelia Simpson
Seth Berridge Slawson
Hiram  Lyday Sloanaker
Herbert Rood Slusser
Lois Eleanor Maher Slusser
Marland Blick Small
Rosella Smalldon
Bertram David Smith
Dora Marie Smith
Frederic Latta Smith
Katherine Marie Smith
Olive Nellie Smith
Russell Warren Smith
'Marjorie Snavely
Marion Clara Spaulding
Eleanor Cunningham Spencer
Jessie Louvern Spiker
Walden Frederick Stamm
Frances Eleanor Stevens
Maxine Ruth Stevens
*Mabel May Stickle
Willis David Stinson,Nathan Stix




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, I921


231


fHarold Thompson Stock
Henry David Stricker
Gladys Mae Strickland
Marjory Maud Struble
Freda Nina Stuart
Marie Rose Sullivan
Marion Summers
*Quinneth Chadbourne
Summers
Emma Colonna Sutton
Harold Theodore Swanson
LeRoy Ernest Swift
iIarion Ruth Sykes
Adele Shirley Tappan
Mildred May Tayler
[rma Harriet Taylor
Cassius Homer Teague
Arthur DeLong Thomas
Laurence Meyrick Thomas
Donald James Thorp
Dean William Titus
Ernest Clarence Toomey
Harriet Felice Towsley
William Martin Trap
Richard Churchill Travis
Merle Markert Trebilcock
Josephine Elizabeth Triplett
Mystia Nafeesie Trubey
Alfred Bernard Trudeau
Dorothy True
George Oliver True
William Herbert Turner
Dorothy Florence Ulbright
Thomas Ingle Underwood
Peter John Van Boven
Louis Arthur Verduin
Daniel Fessler Vollmer
Helen CeCeal Vowles
William, Wachs
Herbert Phillip Wagner
Josephine Hodges Waldo
Margaret Alice Walker
Ruby Clare Walker
Jean Angela Wallace
Eppie Middlemiss Walter
Chao Fan WTang
Helen Beatride Ward
Wilhelmina E. Warner
Leland Leslie Waters
* Graduated "With Distinction."
t Graduated "With High Distincti(


George William Watson
tDavid Alden Watts
Mabel Arlene Watts
Howard Weeks
tHenry Leonard Weiss
Wilma Elleda Welch
Bessie Marie Wells
'Minnie Elizabeth Wells
Arthur August Wender
Archibald Gibson Wenlev
Marjorie Isabel West
William Frederick West
*Dorothea June Westlake
Esther Adelpha Wheeler
Hildreth Katherine Wheeler
Thomas Joy Whinery
Grace Dorothy White
Frederick Benedict Wickham
Bernard DuCharme Wicks
Elton Ewart Wieman
Katherine Dutton Wilcox
Phyllis Gertrude Wiley
George William Wilhelm
Russell Stuart Willcox
Adelaide Elizabeth Williams
Frances Ellison Williams
Hattie Minerva Williams
Jack Goetchins Williams
Frances Evelin Willison
Gertrude Grace Willson
*Hannah Rebecca Wilson
Mabel Elizabeth Wilson
t Nora Wilson
Dorothy Mildred Winchell
William Howard Wise
Edward. Donald Witt
Henry John Woessner, Jr.
Dorothy Jane Wood
Ruth Elizabeth Wood
Harry Stevens Woodford
tLee Mackie Woodruff
Leilla May Woodworth
tMuriel Wright
Elizabeth Luce Wylie
*Frederick Fullerton Wynn
Fu-Ping Yen
Nellie Aletha Yerkes
Robert George Yerkes
Lovisa Alice Youngs




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, I92I


232


CERTIFICATE IN JOURNALISM
Marguerite Alma Clark       Frances Willard Oberholtzer
Frederick Elroy Jacob       Dorothy Geraldine O'Connor
CERTISICATE IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
General Business


Hans Peter Andreasen
Harlow Carpenter Barber
Harold Emerson Barnes
Alice Evelyn Beckham
Leo Ammerman Burns
Chesser Milburn Campbell
James Ernest Comin
Addison Porter Cook
Charles Lyman Cruikshank
Frank Guy Davis
Karl Adams Dietrich
Harry Dixon
Darl Stanley Doverspike
Harold Dieckmann Draper,
A.B.
Lee Webster Finch
Frederic Stark Fletcher
Melba Marie Foltz
George Weedon Gardner
Dean Rutter Hogue
Seward Leigh Horner, A.B.
Cecil Arthur Hubbard
Vernon Coleman Huffman
Saul Joseph Jaffe
Earl Howard J.uers
Ac coI
Edward Derosier Cayia
Robert AtLee Curran
George Taltton Gaskins
Earl Lee Hemenway
William- Arthur Hickmott
Frank Hurin Jordan
Ralph Bostater Kelly
Clarence Roy McDonald
Harold Charles McDonald
Norman Carl Nelson
Hulda Martha Christine
Nicolai


Ivor Jarmin Kahn
James Purvis Kerr
Harold Lake Kinyon
Nelson Miller Lincoln
Harold Payne Lindsay
Armand Victor McPhee
Forrest Allen Madlem
Homer Leslie Martin
Walter Carl Paulin
Carroll David Paulson
Everard Ferguson Perkins
Fred J. Petty
Donald James Porter
Henry Joseph Ranft
Edmund William Reisig
Paul Smith Seaman
Theodore Clement Sedgwick
Henry Calvert Simons, Jr.,
A.B.
Marie Rose Sullivan
William Herbert Turner
Lewis Arthur Verduin
Arthur August Wender
Dorothy Jane Wood
Harry Stevens Woodford
t1ting
Frank John Novak'
William Frank Poorman
Walter Lim Poy
Glen Merle Reem
Leo Anton Schmidt
George Arthur Robert
Schuster
Hiram Lyday Sloanaker
Bertram David Smith
Ernest Clarence Toomey
Alfred Bernard Trudeau
Russell Stuart Willcox


Bankilng
John Palmer Ballman           Walter Peter Marron
Charles Danto                Harold Thompson Stock
Carl Edwin Hammond           William Frederick West
Thomas Doane Hinshaw
Railway A dministration
Charles Stewart Baxter       Marland Blick Small
Edwin Albert Brainerd




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 1921


233


Insuran
Lloyd Kenneth Crippen
Claristine Catherine Frankfurth
Minetta Marie Goetz
Raymond Roscoe Haffner,
A.B., Indiana University
Samuel Melvin Michener, A.B.
Lillian Mae Munro


Francis Boyd Rankin, A.B.
Indiana University
Robert Burns Richardson
Emeterio Roa, A.B.,
University of the Philippines, M.S.
Walter 0. Shriner, A.B.
Indiaa. State Normal School
Leland Leslie Waters


TEACHER'S DIPLOMAS


Evah Gertrude Anderson
Edith Loetta Apfel
Ethel Lucile Apfel
Helen Lucile Arnot
Alla Lucile Asire
Ruby Elliott Ayres
Lenore Bader
Lucelia Myrle Badgley
Rena Emmaline Bailey
Charles Darwin Banks
Almira Caroline Bassett, A.B.,
lMaryvjille College
Narcena Elsie Bassett
Esther Caroline Beck
Bess Parham. Becker
Beatrice Nan Beckwith
Alvira Barbara Bellows
Lucile Beecher Bennett
Margaret Jessie Berkaw
Marie Marguerite Bertrau
Alice Henrietta Blair
Lydia Jane Blount
Joe Berle Bond
Alma Podesta Boone
Esther Lou Boyd
Mary Eleanore Boyer
Lois E. Brooks
Ethel Alberta Brown
Gladys Marie Burch
Gladys May Burnett
Bernice Genevieve Bush
Margaret Jeanette Cameron
Sara Gertrude Caplan
Lottie Mae Carson
May Louise Carson
Marguerite Alderson Cavendish
Mary Creamer Chandler
Ellen Marie Carlson Clark
Katharine Margaret Colcord
Alice Calhoun Comfort
Ava Catherine Comin
Neil Estes Cook


Frances Marie Cooney
Stella May Cooper
Laurie Elinor Kaufman Cork
Mary Blanche Crandall
Marion L. Creaser
Ruth Murel Curtis
Tella Lucia Davis
Wilma Marion Bailais Davis
Gertrude Dorotha Dawson
Daphine Winifred Dodd
Marthena Drybread
Emily Gibb Edwards
Winifred Dixie England
Ora Louise von Ewegen
Edna Marie Exley
Carrie Fairchild
Lee Webster Finch
Margaretta Phipps Fletcher
Margaret Lucille Foote
Evelyn Foster
Izora Lillian Foster
Florence Eleanor Fox
Claristine Catherine Frankfurth
Thelma Carstens Fry
Adelaide Louise Fulkerson
Rhoda Aileen Pierson Gault
Josephine Fraser Gifford
Marian Louise Gill
Wanda Tracy Gillingham
Nettie Goldberg
Doris Gracey
Frances Louise Graves
Glenna Houck Griffin
Mary Abbe Griswold
Helen Elizabeth Groff
Eunice May Grover
Ernestine Jessie Hall
Marion Handley
Gratia Hanley
Hazel Harrington, A.B.
Erwin Hartung, A.B.
Edith Hellman




234    ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 192I


Mary S. Henderson
Alice Bertha Hinkson
Dorothy Frances,Hollis
Josephine Ellen Hoover
Dorothy Blatchley Hoyt
Pauline H-umlphrey
Mildred Winegar Hunt
Reta Fern Ireman
Emma Grace Jacobs
Katherine Harriet Johnson
Mary Lucile Johnson
Olga Marie Johnson
Anthony Kabacinski
Phebe Anita Kelsey
Anna Thompson Kent'
Lanette B. Kern
James Purvis Kerr
Frances Benvenuta Kervin
Margaret Gould Knisely
Helen Ruth Koch
Helen Kolb
Gertrude Esther Auer Kromer
Ella May Dyer Kuhn
Henrietta Laura Kuieck
Mary Dorothy Lane
Josephine Violet Lang
Iva Holmes Lawrence
Elinor Dorothy Leonard
Cecile Mildred Levy
Anna G. Lindemulder
Julia Lockwood
Mary Ruth Lohrstorfer
Nathan Francis Lorah
Harvey Hawley Lowrey, A.B.,
Central Michigan Normal
School
Thomas Francis Lyons
Janie Ellen McAllister, A.B.
Talladega College
Jean McAllister
Ella McCully
Madeline Leitch McGregor
Mary Josephine McGuineas
Martha Alma Madison
Vera Mains
Frances Marshall Maire
Luella Gillette Marsh
Marjorie Marian Marsh
Harry L. Marvin
Helen Elizabeth Master
Emma Clarissa Matthews
Agnes Virginia Maxwell
Evelyn Naomi Maxwell
Frances Sweet Meader
Kathryn Michael


Gertrude Marie Miller, A.B.
Adrian College
Emma Jane Minor
Dorothy Fern Monfort
Marcella B. Moon
Katherine Ruth Morrissey
Helen Edwina Murphy
Joseph Murphy
Marion Pauline Mutchler
Neva Marguerite Nelson
Lucretia Marie Nicholson
Hulda Martha Christine
Nicolai
Grace Ohlmacher
Blanche Ellen O'Kane
Leah Barton Olin
Marion Katherine Oliver
Lee Ray Omans, A.B.
Margaret Honora O'Reilly
Annette Evalyn Orenstein
Esther Mary Pafenbach
Helen Lydia Parker
Elizabeth Hilton Payne
Mildred Elizabeth Peabody
Arthur Eugene Pierpont
Jean Elizabeth Pilston
Esther Pinkham
Egbert Ralph Post
Kathryn Carolyn Prakken
Genevieve Minnie Prestidge
Catharine Elizabeth Mary
Purtell
Sara Grace Rabinowitz
Martha Vivian Ramsay
Hilda Lillian Rayson
Helen Frances Reade
Myrtle Rowena Reed
Gladys Kathryn Reineke
Mildred Richie Reynolds
Vera A. Reynolds
Margaret Luella Rhines
Muza Meredith Rice
Dorothy Adele Rider
Marguerite Rebecca Rochat:
Alida Frances Rogers
Pearl Josephine Rosen
Prudence Mills Rowe
Mildred Gertrude Ruess
Charlotte Sands
Irene Sauble
Joanna Ruth Savage
Irene Agnes Scollon
Charles Dalton Seagley
Ruth Elizabeth Sergeant
Mary Josephine Shaffer




ANNUAL JUNE M1EETING, I92I


235


Clara Maude Sharpe
Harvey Lister Sherwood
Aileen Amelia Simpson
Rosella Smalldon
Dora Marie Smith
Katherine Marie Smith
Marjorie -Snavely
Malcolm Herman Soule
Eleanor Cunningham   Spencer
Maxine Ruth Stevens
Mabel May Stickle
Gladys Mae Strickland
Marjory Maud Struble
Marie Rose Sullivan
Marion Ruth Sykes
Adele Shirley Tappan
Mildred May Tayler
Maurice Walter Taylor, A.B.
Cassius Homer Teague
Harriet' Felice Towsley
Merle Markert Trebilcock
Josephine Elizabeth Triplett
Dorothy True
Dorothy Florence Ulbright


Helen CeCeal Vowles
Josephine Hodges Waldo
Margaret Alice Walker
Eppie Middlemiss Walter
Helen Beatrice Ward
Mabel Arlene Watts
Wilma Elleda Welch
Bessie Marie Wells
Minnie Elizabeth Wells
Marjorie Isabel West
Dorothea June Westlake
Esther Adelpha Wheeler
Hildredth Katherine Wheeler
Grace Dorothy White
Katherine Dutton Wilcox
Phyllis Gertrude Wiley
Adelaide Elizabeth Williams
Frances Ellison Williams
Frances Evelin Willison
Gertrude Grace Willson
Nora Wilson
William Howard Wise
Dorothy Jane Wood
Muriel Wright


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ARCHITECTURE
ARCHITECTURAL ENGINEERING
Grayson Woodward Gill         David Leonard Halper
Joseph Charles Goddeyne,     Maurice Eugene Hammond
A.B., Notre Dame Umniver- James William Kideney
sity                        Armin Alfred Roemer
Ernest Greenberg              John Emil Somppi
ARCHITECTURE
Lester Adolph Abel            Albert Eugene Schoerger
Clarence Edward Horton        Eugene DeGolyer Straight
John Henry Page               Som Quong Wong
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING
Cecil Elmore Archer           Kenneth Hilton Monroe,
Cassius Dewey Barrowcliff      B.S.E.
Seward Noble Lawson           Raymond DeMott Smith
William Ruthven Meese         Cheng Fu Wang
NAVAL ARCHITECT'JRE AND MARINE ENGINEERING
Carl William, Auer            Tully Albert Gross
Wallace DeRemer Christie     John Donald O'Meara
William Harold Gridley        John Randolph Reilly
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
John Ormand Arrowsmith        Alfred Harold Geen
Herbert Alleyne Browne        Howard Derby Grant
Artemas Ward Cowing          Kershaw Harms
Roswell Passmore Dillon       Harold Henry Heller
Leslie Goodhue Estep          Henry Theodore Hellmers.
William Roberts Fraser        Harry Kurtz Herschman




236


ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 192I


Arthur Mudge Holmes
Ernest Raymond Alfred
Johnson
Henry Alan Johnson
Jacob Keller
John Wilford Kennedy
Max Arthur Koblishke
Herbert Kohn
Hubert Samuel Leader
Albert John Lent
Koon Chong Loo
Albert MacLeod
Orin William McMullan
Harry John Mack
William Francis Marande
Lawrence August Philipp
Norman Gilbert Platts
ELECTRICAI,
Donald Justice Barker
Royal Carl Bergvall
William Burlin Boice
Milford Neil Brown
Roy Copley Buell
Harold Grant Cornell
Mark Bertram Covell, Jr.
William VanCleve Foulks
Martin David Friedman
Laurance Ewing Frost
LeGrand Abner Gaines, Jr.


Edward Harner Potthoff
Cecil Crandall Rhodes
Harold Rye
Herman Samuel Sherman
Bernard Harvey Shirk
Roswell Blaine Shurts
Carl Frederick Herman
Siekrnann
Harold Walter Stark
Harold den Bleyker Van
Deman
Lee VanHorn
Earl Emanuel Wagner
Henry Tibbels Ward
George Benson Watkins
Alfred Wilkinson Wilson
Elmer Peter Zink
ENGINEERING
George Kellogg Hess
Paul Houk Keller
Kunj Behari Kichlu
Dean Anderson Lewis
Aaron Woodrooffe Manby
James Maxwell Moore
Frederick John Pfluke
Harold Henry Remine
Harold Clyde Seeley
Richard Davis Smith
Francis Charles Warren


MEICHANICAL, ENGINEERING


Henry Neff Anderson
Floyd Robert Beutel
Willoughby Horace Blodgett
John Edwin Boice
William  Lewis Chapman
Francis Griffith Christian
James Kendall Clark
William Stoup Clarkson
Raymnond Kenneth Corwin
Howard Smith Cummins
Frederick Earnest Davis
Segundo Aquino De Vera
Byron Phedon Djiras
James Hastings Downie
Charles Merritt Drake.Clovis Evert Dyckman
Robert Joseph Ernst
Lester King Ferris
John Tooker Finley
Richard Otto Fischer
Robert Gibbard Freeman
Lawrence Ray Garman
Roy Eliot Gindy
Casimir John Gogulski


Robert Frederick Grindley
Harold Edwin Groves
O.rrin Smith Gulley
Theodore Roosevelt Gustafson
Arthur Neil Gustine
George Rennels Harrington
William Riddle Harrison
John Harri.s Hearding
Ernal Charles Hill
Keizo Horiuchi
Homer Lincoln Hosking
James Donald Hutson
Stuart Irvine
Clarence Nettleton Johnston
Herbert George Kamrath
Eric Adolph Kerbey
Alan Forrest King
Charles Horace King
Edwin Arthur Krueger
Cho Kwan Lam
Charles Jean LaMarre
Henry Arnold Lewis
Harlow  Higinbotham  Lippincott




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 1921


237


George Llewellyn
Benjamin Noyes Lobdell
Durban Alfred Longenecker
Lester Sperry Lukins
Harold Phenicie McNaughton
Richard Bell Marshall
Wilbur Christy Matchett
James Currie Morison
Robert Lay Morse
Harold Gemmell Neelans
John Willis Oltman
Montague Pearson
Frank DeWitt Pease, B.S.E.
Dudley Woodbridge Pitkin
Gilbert Webster Potts
Isaac Richard Quigley
George Holmes Roderick
Maxwell Eugene Salisbury
Louis Joseph Schindler


Philip Weir Schnorbach
LeRoy Justice Scott
Claude Melville Shurtleff
Homer Arthur Size
Herbert Ewart Smith
Richard Tracy Stephens
Emerson Marlowe Stevens
Arthur Henry Tessin
Samuel William Trayler, Jr..
Ransom Carlton Turner
Arthur Johnson Underwood
Wellington Tanner Urch
Calvin Gerberich Wetzel
Bradner Dundy Wheeler
Ingle Burgess Whinery, A.B..
William Wright Williams
Charles Oscar Wilson
Herbert Leo Ziegenbein


CIVIL ENGINEtRING


James Adelbert Barger
Wrayne Franklin Barney
James Francis Beal
Joseph Samuel Borodawkin
Barnet Brazner
Walter Wendell Brunt
George Sanford Burr
McKim Carpenter
Armond Cassil
George Reginald Clemens
Isadore William Cohen
Thomas Collins
Ivan McLean Dansard
Haynes Eli Edison
Horace Reed Every
Frank Plidell Foster
Joseph Guy Hall
Edward Marks Hampton
Clyde Edward Herman
Donald William Hunter
Otis C. Isenbarger
Samuel Curno Jacka
Orrin Louis Jenks
Clarence Pressley Jessup
Ralph Edson Jones
George Donald Kennedy


Harold Grafton McNamee
John Edward Marson
Franklin Harker Maugh
Lawrence Carnahan Maugh
Ralph Hobart Paquette
Angell Barber Pastor
as of the class of I917
Samuel Doak Porter
Howard Earl Ramsey.
Philip Titus Raymond
as of the class of I918
Arnold Ryther Reynolds
Irwin Tasker Sanborn
John Montague Sessions
Grant Harold Smith
Waldo Russell Stegenga
Varnum   Bert Steinbaugh
Walter Clifford Stinson
Fredrick Ray Storrer
Harold Kimball Strout
Murray Delos VanWagoner
Stuart Marcus Weaver
Gale Lavere Wessinger
Joseph Paul Winchell
Elwood Anderson Winddhair
Henry Why Yee


BACHILOR O SCIENCEg (IN CIVII ENGINEERING)
Charles Craigie Van Valkenburgh, as of the class of jo90




238


ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 1921


DOCTOR Of MIEDICINI


Lymnan Anderson Adair
Floyd Pierpont Allen
John Eugene Aten
Lyle Cholwell Bacon, B.S.
Mary Josephine Baker
Howard Bandy Barker, A.B.,
University of Mlissouri, A.M.
Robert Ethelbert Barney
Samuel William Becker, B.S.
Ernest Henry Beernink, A.B.
Claud William Behn
Theodore Perry Bishop, A.B.
Hillsdale College
Arthur Francis Boell, B.S.
Reed Oshea Brigham, B.S.,
Ohio State University, M.S.,
Uliv'ersity of Illirois, Ph.D.
DeForest Windsor Buckmaster
Edward Pinney Cathcart,
A.B., Hope College
John Sharpe Chambers, B.S.,,.
Untiversity  of Kentucky,
M.S.
Norman Ellsworth Clarke,
A.B., Central Mlichigan Norial School
William Paul Cook, B.S.,
Occidental College
Alton Wilcox Corey
Frank Edward Coughlin, B.S.,
Lafayette College
Walter Greggory Cowan
Lewis Harwood Darling
John C. Detro
Corydon L. Ford DeVries
Frank Leo Doran
Thomas W. Durbin
William Clinton Ellet
Osborn   Harris Burnett Ensing, A.B., Kalamasoo College
Lawrence William Faust
William McKee German, A.B.,
M.S.
John Frederick Gipner, A.B.
Mildred Josephine Groesbeck,
A.B., Ohio Wesleyan University
MASTER OF
Wallace Clare Hall, A.B.,
LL.B.
Faustino Manago, LL.B.,


Bruce Alexander Harris
Joseph David Heiman
John Wendell Helfrich, A.B.
Leland Eugene Holly, A.B.,
Albion College
Walter Thomson Hotchkiss
Frances Marie Howell, A.B.,
Columlbia Unliversity
Ernest Emil Huber, A.B.,
University of Missouri
Jacob Kasanin, B.S.
William Edward Kuechenmeister
Marion George McCall, B S.,
Florida Agricultural and
Mechanical College
Harry Brown MacCallum, B.S.
Charles Henry McCarty
Lloyd Harrison McKim
Carleton James Marinus, B.S.,
Syracuse University, M.S.,
ibid
Howard Bennett Mettel
Norman Benedict Muhme
Leo Lewis Newfield
Charles Joseph Oehlhoffer
Eugene Adolph Osius
Thomas Arthur Peebles, B.S.
Margaret Ruth Reynolds. A.B.
Aaron Dudley Riker, A.B.
Albert Darwin Ruedemann
Edwin Phillips Russell
Harold Andrus St. John
Ned Rudolph Smith, A.B.,
A.M., M.S., D.P.H.
Frank Lee Roy Snyder
Ray Emerson deSpelder
Russell Addison Springer,
A.B.
Raymond Max Stark
Allen Chronister Starry
David Israel Sugar, A.B.
Khatchig Hampar Tertsagian
Earl Anselyn Thayer, A.B.,
Oberlin College
Athol Blythe Thompson
Carlos Eugenio Timothee
Rita Belle Towar
Fred Burnell Wight
LAWS
University of the Philippines
Vicente del Rosario, LL.B.,
University of the Philippines




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, z92I


239


BACHELOR OF LAWS


George Byron Alan, A.B.
Clinton Bowen Fisk Bangs,
A.B.
Ferdinand Cortez Bell, A.B.
Carl Gunard Brandt.
Sam Shannon Canterbury,
A.B., University of Mlissouri
Ramon Capistrano, A.B.,
University of the Philippines
Melvin Joseph Cassidy
Reginald McCall Cobbs
Abe Jerome Cohn
Millard Bryan Conklin, A.B.,
Park College
Harry Herbert Despond, A.B.
Earl George Dorfner
Thurman Bernard Doyle
Rodney Arthur Dunnette, A.B.
Arthur Jesse Hass, A.B.
Harold William Hawkins
Ward Morris Hopkins, A.B.
Elden Reed Hunt, A.B.
Sidney Kent Jackson
Sydney Arthur Jacobs
Lee Everett Joslyn, Jr., A.B.
Oscar Anshel Kaufman
Eva Katherine Kilpatrick, A.B.
George Richard Larwill
Raymond McKinley Lewis
Charles Albert Libby
Andrew Watson Lockton
Bruce Brummitt Loring


Clarence Ellsworth Lott
Frank Martin, Jr., A.B.
Edward Maximillion Martinek
Clarence Edward Page
Joseph Wilmer Planck, A.B.
Hugo Vit Prucha, A.B.
Henry Ravenel, A.B.,
George T/Washilngtoin College
Edward John Richards, A.B.,
BuckInell Unliversity, A.M.,
ibid.
Paul Dwight Roach
Lee Charles Robinson
Marian Roose, A.B.,
Wellesley College
Turner McKinley Rudesill,
A.B.
Harry Woodrow Rudine
Norman Herman Sallwasser
Herman Horace Stephenson
Jean Paul Thoman
Walter Roscoe Tonkin, A.B.
Ross Noble Wetherbee, Litt.B.,
Princeto zi University
Roscoe Stanley Wilkey, A.B.,
DePauzv Uiniversity
George Denison Welles
as of the class of I903
George Byron Wolfe
Ernest Luttrell Zeigler
Fay Scott Zimmerman


JURIS DOCTOR


Herman Arthur August, A.B.
Adelbert George Bouchard,
A.B., Lawrence College
Alan Wilson Boyd, A.B.
Ding Sai Chen, LL.B.,
The Co mparative Lawz
School of China
George Douglas Clapperton,
A.B., Amherst College
Ralph Everett Gault, A.B.
Edward Knuff, A.B.
Isadore Edward Levine, A.B.
Ting. Kwei Loh, LL.B.,
The Comparative Law
School of China


James Inglish McClintock,
A.B.
Lewis Hunt Mattern, A.B.
Frank Clark Patterson, B.S.
Harold Marion Shapero, A.B.
Harold Raphael Smith, A.B.
Winter Nicholas Snow, A.B.,
Hillsdale College
Lester Elba Waterbury, A.B.
John Wu, LL.B.,
The Comparative Lawe
School of China




240


ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 192I


PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST


Tripp Waldo Blackmer
Harry Divine Connell
Elmer Lionel Hammond
Clayton Bradley Matteson
Mitsuo Miura
Charles Hirami Newman
BACHELOR O SCIENCE
Tripp Waldo Blackmer
Elmer Lionel Hammond
Mitsuo Miura
Byron Wilkins Swift


Isao Nishimura
Byron Wilkins Swift
Nelda Grace Taylor
Raymond Chase Warner
Edward Cecil Watts
Joseph Bawl Young
(IN PHARM ACY)
Leonard Ransom Wagener,
Ph.C.
Raymond Chase Warner
Edward Cecil Watts
Joseph Bawl Young


DOCTOR OF DENTAL SURGERY


Isadore Max Alpert
Carl Baccaro
Don Harold Bellinger
George Dewey Boone
Allan George Boynton
Norma Marie Bullis
Florence Katherine Butler
Raymond Field Cannon
Philip Russell Carroll
Ray Verne Chase
Ruth Martin Conway
Donald Benjamin Darling
James Nye Donaldson
Charles D'Urban Dyason
Henry Otto Erbland
Lien Tsung Fong
Edgar Lorenz Forsyth
Edward Thomas FuRey
Earl August Gelhaar
James Page Ghysels
Harold Norman Gotschall
Max Greenspan
Henry Hicks
Harry George Hinckley
Frederick George Knepple
Elmer Jacob Kuivinen
Carl Anderson Lund
MASTER 01
Edward LaRue Abell, A.B.
Vera Andrus, A.B.
Almira Caroline Bassett, A.B.,
Mfral zville College
Abram Cornelius Benjamin,
A.B.
Claude Leon Benner, A.B.
Eleanor Bittner, A.B.,
Al[ma College
Ruth Berdina Blekkink, A.B.,
Hope College
Oets Kolk Bouwsma, A.B.


Donald Chalmers Lyons
Charles Joseph McCann
George Goodwin McKnight
Frank Glock Merz, Jr.
George Neal Morrill
Julia Hannah Nordstrom
Paul P. Paine
Moses Rattner
Lawrence Gregory Raub
John LeRoy Reed
Harry Arnold Ruskin
Alexander Ruzwick
Hendrik Jacobus Schoeman,
A.B., University Cape of
Good Hope
Gordon Hugo Sindecuse
Arthur Tarloff
Douglas Melephont Teal
Floyd Lawrence Vernier
Benjamin Weiss
Willem deWildt Wium
Walter Frederick Wood
Theofil Wilfred Wozniak
Gary Ernest Wright
Abner Mark Yeager
Vahan Titus Zogalian? ARTS
Paul Devoe Cahow, A.B.
Lowell Juilliard Carr, A.B.
Ella Maybelle Clark, A.B.
Elizabeth Cleveland, A.B.
Daphne Alice Dodds, A.B.
Emma Lyall Drummond, A.B.
Walter Torrence Dunn, A.B.,
Ml[usleiJligullt College
J. Burns Fuller, A.B.,
Michigan State Normal
College
Grace Griffin, A.B.




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, I92I


24I


Karl Willard Guenther, A.B.
Raymond Roscoe Haffner,
A.B., Indiana University
Ada Irene Hamilton, A.B.
John Joseph Hanselman, A.B.,
Amherst College
Melville Harrison Hatch, A.B.
Ruth Harriet Hayes, B.S.,
Illinois WIesleyan University
Maud Lois Hindman, A.B.
Constance Elizabeth Hopkin,
A.B.
Granville D. Jones, A.B.
Cyrus Harreld Karraker, A.B.,
Lacke Forest College
Earle Hoyt Ketcham, Ph.B.,
Unliversity of Chicago
William Andrew Kohler, A.B.,
Penulsylvaonlia College
Martin Alfred Larson, A.B.,
Kalamalz'oo College
Harvey Hawley Lowrey, A.B.,
Central Mllichigan State
Normal
Janie Ellen McAllister, A.B.,
Talladega College
Helen Martha McAlpine, A.B.
Margaret Emily Miller
Martin, A.B.
Ermelindo Acisclo Mercado,
A.B.
Samuel Melvin Michener, A.B.
Arthur Lee Miller, Ph.B.,
Adriant College
Gertrude Marie Miller, A.B.,
Adrian College


Lula Mae North, A.B.,
Eurceka College
Jean Scilley Nutter, A.B.
Elizabeth Buchanan Oakes,
A.B.
George Jogi Otsuki, A.B.,
University of Washilgton
Esther Annie Pearl, A.B.,
Albionl College
George Shorey Peterson,
A.B., Albionl College
Susan Pillsbury, A.B.,
Unliversity of Nebraska
James Kerr Pollock, Jr., A.B.
Francis Boyd Raikin, A.B.,
Indiana University
Margaret Lucille Rose, A.B.
Nelson Vance Russell, A.B.
Julia Schlegel, B.S.,
Kansas State Normal
Walter 0. Shriner, A.B.,
Indiana State Normal
Marian Herbert Studley, A.B.,
['Vellesley College
Maurice Walter Taylor, A.B.
Nancy Blake Thomas, A.B.
Willard Long Thorp, A.B.,
Amherst College
Lewis George VanderVelde,
A.B.
Erich Albert Walter, A.B.
Ivan Henry Walton, A.B.
Henry Hilton Watson, A.B.
Cecil Vivian Wicker, A.B.
Herman Wyngaarden, A.B.,
University of Washington


MASTER o0 SCIgNCE


Marion Amelia Ames, A.B.
Harry Linn Campbell, B.Ch.E.
Lee Owen Case, B.S.E.
Fred R. Clark, A.B.
Paul Victor Clark, A.B.
Sarah Clarkson, A.B.
J. Verne Crandall, B.S.
Otto Conrad Davidson, Jr.,
B.S.E.
Jane Loveland Dickinson,
A.B.
James Ferdinand Fairman,
B.S.E.
Richard Reid Fauver, A.B.,
Oberlin College
John Hall Gardner, B.S.,
Case School of Applied
Science


Leroy Alexander Gunderson,
B.S. (C.E.) WVashington
State College
Ross Gunn, B.S.E.
Helen Mary Kurtti, A.B.
Bernard Moll, B.S.,
il ichigan Agricultural
College
Evelyn Hortense Roberts, A.B.
Jacob Ellis Rosenberg, A.B.
Alfred William Schluchter,
B.S.
Lawrence Bunting Sims,
B. S.E.
Harry LaVerne Smith, B.S.
Hans Walter Vahlteich, B.S.,
(Phar.)




242


ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, I92I


MASTER. 01 SCIENCE, (IN ENGINEERING)


Lyman Jay Ballard, B.S.E.
Charles Arthur Burton, B.S.E.
Arthur Raymond Carr, B.S.E.
Harold Tuttle Corson, B.S.E.
John Collin Geniesse, B.S.E.
Waldo Garrett Harbert,
B.S.E.
Wendell Earle Mason, B.S.E.
Emil Robert Olbrich, B.S.
(C.E.)
Pennsylvania State College
MASTER OF SCIENCE
Simeon Duval Anderson,
B.S.F.


Herschel C. Smith, A.B.,
B.C.E.
Harry Thomas Winsemius,.
B.S.E.
Chia Tsun Yeh, B.S.(C.E.)
Goverinmean t Institute of
Technology, Shanghai,
China, M.C.E., Cornell7
UCziversity
(IN VORESTRY)
Herman Max Kerber, B.S F.


MASTER IN LANDSCAPE DESIGN
Hannah Irene Champlin, A.B. Karl William Kranz, A.B.
Clarence Edwin Godshalk,
A.B.
MASTER OF SCIIENCE (iN CHEMISTRY)
Adam Glenn Aitchison, B.S.    Walter Roland Hickler,
(Chem.)                       B.S.E.
Clifford Charles Buchler, B.S.,
(Chem.)
MASTER OF ARTS (IN M;UNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION)
Ernest Bernhard Schulz, B.S.E.
MASTER OF SCIENCE (INu PUBIIC HEALTH)
Virgil David Guittard, B.S.,  Watson Frank Walker, B.C.13.
Ohio State University, M.S.,
ibid
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY
Hlorace Burrington Baker, B.S.
Department of Specialization-Zoology.
Dissertation: The Distribution of the Mussels in Douglas
Lake.
Frederick Franklin Blicke, B.S.
Department of Specialization-Chemistry.
Dissertation: Quinoidation in the Triaryl Methyls and in
the Salt-like Derivatives of the Triaryl Carbinols.
Dwight Clark Carpenter, B.S., ilichigan Agricultural College,
M.S.
Department of Specialization-Chemistry.
Dissertation: The Anomalous Osmose of Electrolytes with
Collodion Membranes.
Edward Simpson Everett, A.B., A.M.
Department of Specialization-Rhetoric.
Dissertation: The Greater Family in the Novels of Samuel
Richardson and His Immediate Successors.




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, I92p


243


'Wesley George France, B.S.(Chem.), M.S.
Department of Specialization-Chemistry.
Dissertation: A Study of the Transference Numbers of
Sulphuric Acid and the Influence of Gelatine on the
Transference Numbers by the Concentration Cell Method.
Homer Walker Josselyn, A.B., A.M.
Department of Specialization-Education.
Dissertation: Study of Secondary Education in Kansas
and Missouri.
Charles Albert Langworthy, A.B., Albion College, A.M., ibid.
Department of Specialization-English.
Dissertation: A  Determination of the Authorship   of
Henry the Eighth and Two Noble Kinsmen by a Comparative Study of Verse-Sentence-Patterns.
Carl Downey LaRue, A.B., A.M.
Department of Specialization —Botany.
Dissertation: The Results of Selection within Pure Lines
of Pestalozzia Guepini Desm.
Roy Kenneth McAlpine, A.B.
Department of Specialization-Chemistry.
Dissertation: The Atomic Weight of Antimony.
Adolph Marius Rovelstad, A.B., St. Olaf College, A.M.
Department of Specialization-Latin.
Dissertation: The Indebtedness of Valerius Maximus to
Livy and the Lost Epitome of Livy.
Frederick William Sullivan, Jr., B.S.(Chem.), M.S.
Department of Specialization-Chemistry.
Dissertation: Diphenyl-P-Naphthylmethyl and the Color
of Free Radicals.
Marten ten Hoor, A.B., A.M.
Department of Specialization-Philosophy.
Dissertation: A Critical Estimate of the Philosophy of
George Santayana.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board directed the
officers of the University to ask the Michigan State Administrative Board whether $300,000 for the purchase of land
under Senate Act No. Io3, could be made available within
thirty days.
All of the above actions were by a unanimous vote except where otherwise expressly stated.
On motion, the Board adjourned to the last Friday in
September, I92I.
SHIRIEY W. SMITH,
Secretary




244


lVANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 1921


APPENDIX A
HONORARY DEGREES
Voted April 29 (see page I79) and May 27 (see page I9o)
and conferred June 30, 192I, with characterizations
by Professor John G. Winter
I
MASTER OF ARTS
JAMES EUGENE DUFFY, Bay City, Michigan. A graduate of Michigan, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts in the class of I890 and of the Law School in the
class of I892. Vividly remembered by his fellow collegians
of the older day as an athlete of high renown; a member
of the Board in Control of Athletics since its inception, he
has been helpful and. constant in his devotion to the best
interests of his Alma Mater. Honored alike by his associates of the bar and the citizens of the commonwealth, he
deserves recognition from the University.
DR. HARRY LiE CANRIGHT, Dean of the Medical Depart-ment of the University of West China. After graduating
from the Medical School of the University of Michigan in
the class of I889, he went as a medical missionary to the
province of Sze-ch-uen in western China, where he established the first hospital amid a population of some 50,000,000
of people. Continuing his labors undaunted among an alien.and sometimes hostile race, he won their confidence not
only as a skilled physician, but also as a wise counselor and
faithful friend. By reason of his sympathetic understanding of Chinese life and character, as well as his knowledge
of the language, he has been called upon repeatedly to
render valuable aid to American and British diplomats. In
recognition of his services to humanity his Alma Mater
welcomes home with honor a worthy son.
THE HONORABLE HARRY CONANT BULKLEY, of Detroit, a
graduate of Michigan, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, in the class of 1892, and of the Law School in the
class of 1895. A distinguished member of the legal profession, a man of large affairs, a public-spirited citizen of high
ideals, and a former member of the Board of Regents, he
has exemplified in his career the force and character of
education in a democracy. In him a proud Alma Mater
delights to honor a very loyal son.




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 1921


245


II
JURIS DOCTOR
JUSTICE GEORGE ARTHUR MALCOLcM, of the Supreme Court
of the Philippines. A graduate of this University, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, in the class of I904, and
of the Law School in the class of 90o6. The organizer of
the Oriental Bar Association, the Philippine Bar Association, and of service especially as the Dean of the Law
School of the University of the Philippines.
HONORARY DOCTOR Or LAWS
DR. ADA LOUISE COMSTOCK, Dean of Smith College.
Called to the University of Minnesota, after graduating
from Smith College and studying abroad, she won early and
notable recognition as an educator and administrator. Dean
of Smith College since I918 and recently honored by election to the presidency of the National Association of University Women; a forceful leader of singular tact and
judgment, she merits unusual distinction.
III
DOCTOR OP LAWS
REAR ADMIRAL EDWARD RHODES STITT, Surgeon General
of the United States Navy. Entering his country's service
immediately after graduation from the Medical Department
of the University of Pennsylvania in I889, he has throughout his career displayed qualities not only as a scientist, but
also as an administrator which have won him marked distinction. Widely recognized as one of the highest authorities in the field of tropical medicine and honored as an
official of proved ability and devotion, he is justly entitled
to a signal token of respect.
VILHJALMUR STEFANSSON, intrepid Arctic explorer. A
native of Canada, a graduate of the State University of
Iowa and of Harvard, he has been engaged since I904 in
exploring the far north. In numerous and hazardous expeditions he has discovered new lands, mapped the courses of
unknown rivers, and sounded the polar seas. As an explorer of dauntless and heroic soul in the cause of science,
a geographer honored by scientific bodies at home and
abroad, an author of recognized merit, he has justly won
enduring fame.
DR. EDWARD CHANNING, Professor of Ancient and
Modern History in Harvard University. In a professional
career extending over 38 years he has won an international




246


2 ANNUtAL JUNE MEETING, 1921


reputation as an author and educator. By his stimulating
lectures and by his many notable publications in the field of
American history, he has exerted a profound influence upon
the thought of his time. A distinguished scholar, an historian honored wherever learning is prized, he merits the
highest honor the University can bestow.
REAR ADMIRAL BRADLEY ALI,EN FISKE, of the United
States Navy. A graduate of Annapolis in I874 and second in
his class, he has served his country with rare distinction. Reported by Admiral Dewey for "heroic conduct" at the battle
of Manila Bay; three times recipient of a gold medal for
his contributions to sciences; the inventor of numerous devices for the control and efficiency of battleships, among
them a naval telescope sight which has been adopted by all
the navies of the world because of its improvement in the.accuracy of gunnery; an authority of strategy; the organizer of the general staff of the Navy, and president for ten
successive terms of the United States Naval Institute, he
deserves well of his country. In recognition of his conspicuous merit he is entitled to higher honor.
SIR AUCKLAND CAMPBEiL GEDDES, British Ambassador
to the United States. Called successively to Edinburgh and
McGill Universities as Professor of Anatomy, he left a
field in which he had won eminent honor to serve his country in France. After suffering wounds and gaining distinction in battle, he was entrusted with high office by his
government as director of recruiting, minister of national
service, and president of the Board of Trade, where his
clear vision and capacity for swift and effective action were
of material aid in adjusting industrial disorders caused by
the turmoil of war. As British Ambassador since I920, he
has been a potent force in preserving good relations between his country and our own by his knowledge of the
complicated problems of export, industry, and finance, by
his rugged  and   forceful speech.  In  recognition  of
his scholarship and his great service to the world in helping
to guide it wisely through a period of troubled transition,
the University of Michigan confers upon him her highest
honor.
HARRY BURNS HUTCHINS, President-Emeritus of the
University of Michigan. A scholar of note, an administrator of rare ability, a very gracious gentleman, firm-fixed
in the heart of Michigan now and forevermore in abiding
love, honor, and esteem.




UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
BUDGET FOR THE YEAR
BEGINNING JULY 1, 1921, AND ENDING JUNE 30, 1922
As APPROVED BY THE REGENTS MAY 27, JUNE 28, AND SEPTEMBER 30,
I92I
(Regents' Proceedings, Pages I86, 187, 224, 247, and 248)
Following there are presented (I) the estimated current income
of the University for the year 1921-1922 and (II) the annual budget
and other appropriations (exclusive of special legislative appropriations and gifts) in detail for Departments and sub-departmenits,
together with a summary.
(I) INCOME
The estimated income for 1921-1922, based on previous experience, is as follows:Tuition and other College and School Fees........... $ 925,0oo0.00
Laboratory and other Department Fees................     25,000.0o
D iplom a  Fees........................................  I4,000.00
Deposits for Theses, Keys, etc.........................   I00.00
State Mill Tax for Current Expenses................. 3,I50,00000
Interest on Endowment Fund..........................    38,416.64
SALES AND SERVICES
University Hospital.....................$595,800.00
Homoeopathic Hospital................... 135,000.00
Dental Operating Room................... 20,000.00
Pasteur  Institute.........................  250.00
M iscellaneous............................  5,000.00  756,050.00
Rents,-Houses, Lands, and Rooms...................       6,ooo.oo
Interest  on  Bank  Deposits.............................  3,000.00
Non-Student Fees and Deposits.......................      100oo.oo
Total Estimated Receipts........................... $4,97,666.64
General Funds in hands of University Treasurer, June
30,  I92I..........................................  122,571.64
Total Estimated Income, including balance at beginning  of  year  1921-1922....................... $5,040,238.28




(II) ANNUAL DEPARTMENTAL BUDGET FOR 1921-1922
I. ADMINISTRATION AND GENrRAL
Executive Offices


]
Administration, Salaries and Wages...................
Administration, Contingent...........................
Administration,  Postage..............................
Regents' Traveling Expenses..........................
Attorneys'  Fees......................................


Pei


No.      Salaries     Current
rsons  and Wages      Expense
43     $99,300.00
$20,000.00
2,500.00
2,500.00
500.00
43     $99,300.00   $25,500.0o


Equipment


Total
$99,300.00
20,000.0(
2,500.00
2,500.00
500.00
$124,8o0.00


Total, for Executive Offices.......................




Other General Offices


Bureau of Appointments.............................
Nuditor Student Organizations and Catalog Editor....
Chairman Board in Control of Athletics...............
Chairman Foreign Students Advisers Committee......
Custodian Memorial Building.........................
Dean of Students....................................
Dean of Women......................................
Dictaphone   Station..................................
University Health Service............................
University Health Service, Hospital Fund.............
High School Inspection........................
News Service.......................................
Stage Director, S. C. A. Hall.........................
Student Council.......................................
Total for Other General Offices...................


2      $ 3,oo000.00  $   460.00........     $ 3,460.00
I          900.00.................         90o.oo
I          200.00................         200.00
I          300.00.................30000
I        1,200.00        750.00........        I,950.00
4       I4,500.00oo     I,000.00     $500.00      i6,ooo.oo
5        8,5I5.00        845. 0........        9,360.00
I        3,600.00        400.00........        4,000.00
14       30,380.00       3,800.00      425.00      34,605.00..........     18,500.00........      I8,5o0.oo
I        2,000.00,3oo.........       3,300.00
I          500.00        500.00........,000.00
I..........        300.00........         300.00........   I50.00........         I50.00
33      $65,o95.oo     $28,005.00     $925.00     $94,025.00




General Accounts
No.      Salaries
Persons   and Wages
Alumni  Association.........................................
American  Students'  Union.....................................
Cap  and  Gown  Contract.......................................
Commencement Expense.............................
Diplomas.....................
Elevator Insurance................................
Fire  Insurance.......................................
Workmen's Compensation Insurance...........................
Michigan Union Fees.........................
Miscellaneous Printing...........................
Non-Resident  Lecture  Fund.................................
Photographs of Buildings and University Life................
Publicity and Organization among Alumni............    4      $ 6,320.00
Regents' Reception.............................
Schoolmasters' Club Report.........................
Taxes on California Lands.....................................
Teachers' Annuity Fund.........................
Telephone Rental..............................
Traveling Expense Fund for Meetings of Associations............
University Band.......................................  I     I,0.00
Women's League Fees.........................................
Daily Bulletin...............................
Total for  General Accounts.......................  5    $  7,320.00


Current
Expense
$ 600.00
500.00
500.00
3,000.00
5,000.00
8oo.oo
3,000.00
3,000.00
32,000.00
I2,000.00
1,500.00
I00.00
3,205.00
300.00
70.00
400.00
5,000.00
9,500.00
1,500.00
750.00
I,6oo.oo
3,500.00
$87,825.00


Equipment
$ 475.00
$ 475.00


Total
$ 600.00
500.00
500.00
3,000.00
5,000.00
8oo.oo
3,000.00
3,000.00
32,000.00
12,000.00
1,500.00
100.00
I0,000.00
300.00
70.00
400.00
5,000.oo
9,500.00
1,500.00
I,75o.oo
1,750.00
I,6oo.oo
3,500.00
$95,620.00




2, DEPARTMENTS OF INSTRUCTION AND RESEARCH
A. SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts 
Department 
Administration, College of Literature, Science, and Arts   I2    $ 17,550.00    $ 7,o00.00  $   Ioo.o0  $  24,650.00  C
Astronomy...........................................     8       I8,440.oo 00  1,500.00,8oo.oo     21,740.00 
Botany..............................................     21      35,750.00      2,200.oo    3,500.00     41,450.0oo 
BOtan1Y.2I                                                          35,750.00     2,200.00    3,500.00     4I,450.00 O
Botany Herbarium...................................     4,700.00       300.00      I50.00      2,150.00   z
Botanical Gardens...................................       8       88,700.00     I,000.00      300.00     10,000.00 
Chemistry..........................................      7       9,350.o o     50,500.00    7,000.00    I48,850.00 
Economics...........................................      54       95,850.00     1,500.00    I,000.00     98,350.00 o
English..............................................             39,800.00        7500                  39,975
Fine  Arts............................................    4        7,60 0.00      250.00      500.00      8,350.00 
Forestry.............................................     6        6,44             0.00,00.00         19,I40.00
Geology..............................................    15       38,650.00       250.00    1,400.00     40,300.00
Geology, Geological    useum.........................      2.................             I,00.0 o   1,000.00
German..............................................     5       17,800.00        50.00       00.00     17,950.oo 00
Cn




No.       Salaries
Department                                            Persons    and Wages
Greek............................................           4         9,750.oo
History..............................................        2         50,250.00
Landscape Design.....................................         6        II,420.00
Latin.............................................             8       2I,o00.00
Mathematics........................................          I8       48,500.00
Mineralogy.........................................          6       I6,750.00
Music................................................          2        6,600.oo
M usic,  Care  of  O rgan..........................................
Philosophy and Psychology...........................          I5       45,600.00
Physics.............................................         28        59,I50.00
Political Science.....................................       I5        24,550.00
Public Speaking....................................           9        I9,850o.oo
Rhetoric and Journalism...............................        33        65,95o.oo
Romance Languages.................................           36        90,700.00
Semitics............................................           I        4,500.00
Zoology.........................2.........36,250.00
Science Building..............................................
Total for College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.  322*    $90I,350.00
* Net, less duplicates.


Current
Expense
230.00
6o.oo
900.00
75.00
300.00
750.00
I00.00
200.00
350.00
3,720.00
500.00
700.00
300.00
II5.oo
10.00
2,200.00
75.00
$77,II0.oo


Equipment      Total
200.00     I0,180.00
360.00    50,670.00
1,003.00    13,323.00
325.00    22,300.00
I00.00    48,900.00
1,750.00    I9,250.00
I00.00     6,800.oo........... 200.00
1,000.00    46,950.00
8,665.00    7I,535.00
I00.00    25,150.00...........20,550.00
00oo.oo00  66,350.00
500.00    91,315.00
200.00     4,7Io.oO
3,500.00    4I,9500oo...........75.00
$35,653-00;I,0I4,II3.00


tl
q'
tz,
\0
t\~




Colleges of Engineering and Architecture


Administration, Coll. of Engineering and Architecture..
Engineering Apparatus and Furnishings..............
A rchitecture.........................................
Chemical  Engineering................................
Civil  Engineering..............................
Civil Engineering, Highway Short Course.............
Drawing.............................................
Electrical  Engineering...............................
Engineering  English.................................
Engineering  Mathematics.............................
Engineering  Mechanics...............................
Engineering Research................................
Engineering  Shops..................................
M arine  Engineering..................................
M echanical  Engineering..............................
M odern   Languages..................................
Surveying............................................
Surveying, Summer Camp...........................
Surveying, Summer Camp Fee Fund (Est. Proceeds)..
Total for Colleges of Engineering and Architecture
* Net, less duplicates.


14    $ I4,350.00   $ 7,500.00
13      32,400.00      830.00
I8      43,400.00     4,915.oo
2I      60,6oo.oo     5,000.00.............  2,500.00
13      34,575.00      200.00
17      42,280.00     2,500.00
12.     25,1.00.       150.00
I9      51,9o.o00       30.00
Io      29,525.00      800oo.oo
I       5,000.00     5,0o0.00
30      4I,400.oo00   5,000.00
7       I9,100.00      530.00
23      70,750.00     4,570.00
4       3,600.00oo      30.00
12      28,350.00      440.00
13       8,688.oo     2,600.00........ 7.700.00
225*   $539,o08.oo   $43,295.00


$25,000.00
1,200.00
$26,200.00


$ 21,850.00
25,000.00
33,230.00
48,315.00
65,600.00
2,500.00
34,775.00
44,780.00
25,250.00
51,93.0oo
30,325.00
I0,000.00
46,400.00
19,630.00
75,320.00
31,630.oo
28,790.00
12,488.00
700.00
$608,5I3.00


to
t~X
t
xo




oo


Medical School


Department                                       I
Administration,  Medical -School.......................
A nato m y.............................................
Anatomy, Anatomical Material........................
D erm atology.........................................
H ygiene.............................................
Internal  Medicine....................................
Materia  Medica.....................................
Neurology........
N eurology...,.......................................;
Obstetrics and Gynecology...........................
The balance of the expenses of this department is
provided for out of the Bates Professorship Fund
Ophthalm ology.......................................
Otolaryngology.......................................
Pathology..........................................
Pediatrics............................................
Physiology..........................................
Psychiatry...........................................
Roentgenology.......................................
Serology...........................................
Surgery...............................................
Total  for  Medical  School.........................
* Net, less duplicates.


No.      Salaries
Persons   and Wages
4     $ 3,950.00
17       33,400.00
5       I i,8oo.oo
21       35,375.00
15      32,160.00
7       I4,300.00
4        7,900.00
7        8,6oo.oo
5       I0,300.00
5        9,200.00
12      24,400.00
6       10,500.00
9       12,400.00
2        4,200.00
9       16,280.00
4        4,580.00
12       24,200.00


Current
Expense
$ 1,720.00
2,000.00
5,000.00
9,470.oo
I,000.00
6,500.00
750.00


Equipment
$ 125.00
3,750.00,000.00..
1,000.00........


Total
$ 5,795.00
35.400.00
5,000.00
1,800.00
48,595.00
32,160.00
16,300.00
7,900.00
8,6oo.oo
10,300.00
9,200.00
34,51 3.00
I0,500.00
14,347.00
4 200.00
16,280.00
4,58o.oo
24,200.00


3,6I3.oo
1,197.00........................


131'   $263,545.00  $26,440.00  $9,685.00  $299,670.00




Schools and Colleges not Subdivided into Departments


Law    School..........................................
Law    School, Law   Review.............................
College  of  Pharmacy..................................
Homceopathic Medical School.........................
Homceopathic Medical School, Fee Fund, Est. Proceeds
College of Dental Surgery...........................
School of Education..................................
School of Education, Bureau of Edu. Ref. and Research
School of Education, Industrial Education.............
Graduate School Administration (Inc. 25 Fellows)...
Total for Schools and Colleges not Subdivided into
Departments..................................
Net, less duplicates.


28     $I o6,oo.oo
7       10,550.00
22       36,810.00
36       78090o.00
15       35,450.00
2        6,200.00
7       Provided
27       I I I 00.00


$ 2,000.00  $ 350.00   $109,250.00
3,000.00........     3,000.00
750.00    I,000.00    12,300.00
1,000.00   I,000.00    38,8I0.00
90.00........        90.00
22,000.00   2,450.00    102,540.00
1,500.00   I,700.co    38,650.00
4,665.00     300.00     I,I65.00
for by Smith-Hughes Fund
2,685.oo........    13,785.00


I41*   $285, 10.00   $37,690.00  $6,8oo.oo  $329,590.00


B. INDEPENDENT DEPARTMENTS OR DIVISIONS
General Library (excluding salaries, Law Library)....         II       $III,000.00   $ o1,699.00    $IO,462.00  $ I32,16I.00
(Number of Student Assistants estimated)
General Library, Gay Tracts............................................      3,300.00       3,300.00
General Library, Book Buying Trip.....................................      3,000.00       3,000.00
General Library, Books..............................................      2      28,000.00  28,000.00
General Library, Coin Collection...............................                           300.00........         300.00




No.       Salaries
Persons    and Wages
General Library, Photostat Operation............................
General Library, Librarian's Fund................................
General Library, Reference Book Fund..........................
Dental Library, Books...........................................
Dental  Library,  Fee  Fund.......................................
Engineering  Library,  Books.....................................
Homoeopathic   Library,  Books...................................
Law    Library,  Books............................................
Law Library, Fee Fund (Est. Proceeds)........................
M edical  Library,  Books.........................................
Medical Library, Fee Fund (Est. Proceeds).....................
Barbour Gymnasium.................................       5         7,550.oo
Waterman Gymnasium...o............................      7        6,150.00
Outdoor   Physical  Education...........................       I.........
University Hospital..................................       459       283,962.00
University Hospital Clinical Departments........................
University Museum..................................       12       21,360.00
Homccopathic Hospital...............................         82        46,890.00
Military Science and Tactics..........................        5         2,050.00
Public Health Nursing................................          2         5,080.0o
Total for Independent Departments or Divisions...        684     $484,042.00


Current
Expense
3,000.00
420.00
250.00
36,000.00
291,260.00
*38,958.00
6,I30.00
78,300.00
260.50
1,430.00
$467,007.50


0


Equipment
5,000.0.0
5,500.00
300.00
65o.oo
3,000.00
250.00
8,0ooo00.00
6oo.oo
4,000.0o
750.00
I45.oo
250.00
*I4,79900oo
2,400.00
$g6,oo6.oo
6oo.oo
$96,006.00


Total
3,000.00
5,000.00
5,500.00
300.00
65o0oo
3,000.o0
250.00
8,ooo.oo
6oo.oo
4,000.00
750.00
8,115.00
6,650.00
36,000.00
575,222.00
53,757.00
29,890.00
130,I90.00
2,910.50
6,50o.oo
$1,o47,o55.5


*Totals for Clinical Departments of the Medical School. Details listed on following page.




Clinical Departments of Medical School


Dermatology.... 


Internal  M edicine....................................
Neurology...........................................
Obstetrics  and  Gynecology............................
Ophthalm ology.......................................
O tolaryngology.......................................
Pediatrics............................................
Roentgenology.......................................
Serology.............................................
Surgery......................................
Totals University Hospital Clinical Departments...
3. EXTN'SION
University Extension Service..........................     5
University Extension Service, Credit Plan.............
Total  for  Extension..............................    3*........ $  I,I00.00.........   5,850.00.........    500.00.........   3,150.oo.........    800.00.........   1,150.00.........   1,435.00.........   8,280.00.........I00.00.........   6,593.00
$38,958.00


$ 615.oo
5,459.00oo
470.00
1,050.00
900.00
I,000.00
225.00
2,040.00
100.00
2,940.00
$I4,799.00
$I,000.00
$I,000.00


$ 1,715.00
11,309.00
970.00
4,200.00
1,700.00
2,150.00
I,66o.oo
20,320.00
200.00
9,533.00
$53,757.00
$20,600.00
7,000.00
$27,600.00


$14,300.00
7,000.00
$21,300.00


$5,300.00
$5,300.00


* Net, less duplicates.
4. BUSINESS DEPARTMENTS
Printing  and  Binding.................................    I     $  2,800.00
Storehouse..................I.......................       I       I7,820.00
Total for Business Departments..................      I2     $20,620.00


$ 2,000.00
I0,000.00
$I 2,000.00


$ 4,800.0o
27,820.00
$32,620.00


-




5. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE O PHYSICAL PLANT
Department of Buildings and Grounds


No.        Salaries
Department                                               Persons     and Wages
General............................................               I7    $   36,650.o0
Shop    Supplies...............................................
Electric  Light  and  Power........................................
Gas...........................................................
Street  Sprinkling................................................
Teams.....................................
Water..................................................
Janitor Service......................................      65        8,553.00
Laundry...................................................
Power Plant.........................................              2         37,650.00
Power Plant Maintenance......................................
H eating   Supplies..............................................
F uel........................................................
Repairs and Maintenance of Buildings and Land Imp............
M aintenance   of  Grounds........................................
Buildings and Land Improvements...............................
Auto Truck Expense..................................
Switching Charges...........................................
Total for Department of Buildings and Grounds...             103      $155,853.00


Current
Expense
$   2,500.00
3,000.oo
g,ooo.oo
9,000.00
IO00000
500.00
500.00
14,000.00
6,ooo.oo
500.00
8,250.00
I,500.00
I60,200.00
I26,87I.04
I I,000.00
22,544.36
2,000.00
200.00
$378,565.40


Equipment........
$ 1,000.00
48,150.00
$4,.....0
$49,I50.00


Total
$ 39,50o.oo
3,ooo.oo
g,ooo.oo
9,000.00
10000.00
500.00
500.00
i4,000ooo.oo00
88,553.00
500.00
85,800.00
8,250.00
1,500.00
160,200.00
126,87I.04
I,000.00
22,544.36
2,000.00
200.00
$583.568.40




SUMMARY, BUDGET OF 1921-1922
I. ADMINISTRATION AND GENEiRAL


No.
Persons
Executive   Offices....................................
Other  General  Offices.................................  33
General Accounts..................................        5


Salaries
and Wages
$  90,300.00 $
65,095.00
7,320.00


Current
Expense
25,500.00
28,005.00
87,825.00


Equipment
925.00
475.00


Total
$ 124,800.00
94,025.00
95,620.oo


CI
Co


2. DEPARTMENTS OE INSTRUCTION AND RESEARCH
A. SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES


College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...........
Colleges of Engineering and Architecture.............
M edical  School......................................
Law    School..........................................
College of Pharmacy.................................
Homceopathic Medical School.........................
College  of Dental Surgery.............................
School of Education..................................
Graduate   School.....................................


322
225
13I
27
7
22
36
23
26


901,350.00
539,oi8.oo
263,545.00
Io6,90o.o0
10,550.00
36,81.0oo
78,090.00
41,650.00oo
II,I00.00


77, I IO.00
43,29500oo
26,440.00
5,000.00
750.00
1,090.00
22,000.00
6,i65.oo
2,685.00


35,653.00
26,200.00
9,685.00
35.00oo
1,000.00
1,000.00
2,450.00
2,000.00.  'O.. O...O


1,O14,113.00
608,513.00
299,670.00
112,250.00
12,300.00
38,9o0.00
102,540.00
49,815.oo
I3,785.00




B. INDEPeNDENT DEPARTMENTS OR DIVISIONS


No.
Persons
Libraries.............................................  III
Gym nasium s.........................................  12
Outdoor  Physical 'Education...........................    I
University Museum..................................    I2
University Hospital.................................    459
Homceopathic Hospital...............................     82
Military  Science  and  Tactics..........................  5
Public  Health  Nursing................................  2


Salaries
and Wages
III,00.00
13,700.00
21,360.00
283,962.00
46,890.o0
2,050.00
5,o8o.oo


Current
Expense
I3,999.00oo
670.00
36,000.00
6,I30.00
330,218.00
78,300.00
260.50
1,430.00


Equipment
72,812.00
395.00
2,400.00
14,799.00
5,000.00
600.0o........


Total
197,8I.00
I4,765.00
36,000.00
29,890.o0
628,979.00
130,I90.00
2,910.50
6,510.00


3. EXTENSION


University  Extension  Service.........................


3      21,300.00    5,300.00  I,000.00    27,600.00  \
kl.


4. BUSINESS DEPARTMENTS


Printing   and  Binding................................. 
Storehouse,.....................................   II


2,800:00    2,000.00
17,820.00   10,0O,00


4,800oo.
27,820.00




5. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE O PHYSICAL PLANT


Department of Buildings and Grounds................
Totals...........................................


103
I659*


I55,853.oo   378,565.40
$2,842,543.00 $I,I88,737.90


49,I50.oo
$225,894.00


583,568.40
$4,257,174.90


Summer Session of 1921 (see recapitulation)..........
Appropriations from General Funds, Net, including
Summer Session (See Regents' Proceedings of
May 27, June 28, and September 30, pp. I86,
187,  224,  247,  and  248).......................
* Net, less duplicates..................................  149,254.63............................. $4,4o6,429.53


4~1
1;1
C-r3
tzi


BALANCES CARRIED OVER FROM -1920-1921
I. ADMINISTRATION AND GENERAI,
Executive Offices


A dm inistration.............................................


$   1,053.04.................     $   1,053.04


Other General Offices


Administration, Stage Director S. C. A. Hall...............
Dean of Students.........................................
Health Service, Optical Supplies...................................      $   349.8I.........        1,500.00


$ 300.39....,ooI.  v


349.8I
300.39
1,500.00




General Accounts
Salaries        Current
and Wages        Expense      Equipment         Total
Alumni Conference.................................................          291.44........         291.44
American Philology Association and A. 1. Entertainment..............        300.00........         300.00
Art Exhibit.........................................................          3I5.00........         3I5.00
Campus and City Plan.............................................'.         750.00........         75000
Cap and Gown Contract...........................                 291.75........291.75
Commencement Expense............................................678.7........678.17
Educational Conference and Inauguration............ 2.00.........                                                       200.00........
Housing Bureau....................................................          299.20........299.20
Michigan Union Fees..............................................7,33.45...7,33.45
Military Roster.................................................                             146.95........146.95
Naval Unit Deposits, I9I8-I919.................................           6   5.......69.15
W  om en's  League  Fees..............................................          259.I0........259.0




2. DEPARTMENTS OF INSTRUCTION AND RESEARCH
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Departnment
Botany.............................25.47                                                 125.47
Botanical Gardens......................................................         72.24           72.24
Chemistry....................................................................      3,5703          3,5703
Economics, Economics Printing Fund...........................        3,453.07........         3,453.07
English.................................83..3                                                       83.I3
Fine Arts...............................................265.15                                 265.15 
Fine Arts, Art Collection Catalog.........500..........                                           500.00.
Forestry.......................................44.44                                               44-44 
Geology, Geological Museum........................................            21.33........            21.33.
German......................................................................                                I59.40          I59.40
G reek.......................................................................9.24  I9.24 
H istory......................................................................83.57                    8357 
Landscape    Design.......................................................66.17                         66.17  0
Mineralogy.........................................................        687.3I         687.31 
Mineralogy, Mineralogical Collection..........................................       2,50.0.0        2,500.00   \d
M usic,  Organ    Repairs.............................................76.73                                      76.73 
Philosophy and Psychology....                                                                                472.59          472.59 
Philosophy, Publication of Circulation and Sleep....................             23..23.98 %
Physics............................................................                   o03.5I         63.59         267.10
Physics, Special Equipment...................................................1,123.2I,123.21
Political Science..........................                                         I90.46         43.74         234.20
Public  Speaking......................................0...............          I03.80........           I03.80
Romance Languages.........................................................         62.76          162.76
Science  Building.............................................................         421.45         421.45
Zoology........151.38                                                                                                151.38 
~... —..'.'  '   * ' ' ~ *"?...




Colleges of Engineering and Architecture
Salaries       Current
Department                                                         and Wages        Expense     Equipment         Total       b
Administration, Coll. of Engineering and Architecture................        1,400.00........400.00,
Engineering Apparatus and Furnishings.......................................       6,627.98       6,627.98    &
Architecture........................................................         550.00        21.89         571.89 
Civil Engineering, Huron River Valley Rainfall Study.......                  86.53.................          86.53 
Engineering Shops, Central Shops..................................       3,709.78       3,709.78   r
Surveying, Summer Camp.....................................        1,537.28........        1,537.28 
Medical School
Medical Administration, Clinical Society Rep., Vols. VIII-IX               1.......          39.24.....        139.24 
Medical Administration, Clinical Transactions.........................          233.38........         23338 
Anatomy, Osteology Fee Fund.............................         435.09.......          435.09 
Hygiene...............................              740.29         740.29 
Materia Medica.....................................................8.82                                  8.82
Physiology....83                                                                                                     01..........................................................  I,OI4.83  1014.83




Schcots and Collegcs not SS'ubdivided into Departlenlts 
Law School............................................................                               890.93        890.93.
Honlceopathic Medical School................................................            6,875.17       6,875.7I 7
Homeeopathic Medical School, Fee Fund.............................856.23........856.23
College of Dental Surgery..............................................             208.36        208.36
Graduate School................................................         400.00........        400.00,
Graduate School, Ford Studies on Divergent Series and1
Surmability............................3.............50                                     31.50 
Graduate School, Humanistic Series Musical Comp..........00.........,.00........         1,000.00
Graduate School, Moore Photostat Fund............................          79.02........          79.02
Graduate     School,  Papyrus   Photos...................................O.........             705070.50
Graduate School, Woods Hole Research Fund........................         2  00o........         200.00
School of Education........................................              369.39.................369.39
School of Education, Bureau of Educ. Ref. and Research..............            104.05........         104.05




0


B. INDPENDE~NT DPPARTMENTS OR DIVISIONS


General  Library,  Books.....................................
General Library, Coin Collection Inventory..................
General Library, Egyptian Exhibits Purchase................
General Library, Fire  Damage...........................
General Library, Fire Damage, 12/12/19, Manses Works....
General  Library,  Librarian's  Fund..........................
Gen.ral Library, Dean C. Worcester Collection..............
Engineering  Library,  Books.................................
Homoeopathic  Library, Books................................
Law    Library,  Books........................................
Medical  Library, Fee  Fund..................................
Summer Session....................................
Barbbur Gymnasium, Palmer Field Fee Fund................
Barbour Gymnasium, Special Equipment....................
W aterman  Gymnasium.....................................
Outdoor Physical Education, Fees..........................
University Hospital:
D erm atology.............................................
Dermatology, Wax Model Purchase......................
Ophthalmology...........................................


Sala ries
alnd Wa-e~s...........................-................................. *........................................
I36.49,3.64................................


Current
Expense
569.52
1,364.68
600.oo
838.66
13,868.24
1,30'5.70


Equipment
1,994.00
2,coo0.0........
214.50
762.74
1,721.i8
20701I
1,579.02
2,784.35
93.27
214.08........


Total
1,994.00
569.52
2,000.00
1,364.68
600.00
214.50
762.74
1,721.18
207.01
1,579.02
2,784.35
137,332.30
13,868.24
93.27
2I4.08
1,305.70


ta
o
-i
i-~i.....................        -...70.21..................           I, OO1,000.00........................58.41


70.21
I,000.00
58.41




Otolaryngology.....................................
Serology.................................................
Surgery
Surgery..................................................
University Hospital, Hospital Awnings..................
University Museum, Archaeology Collection.................
Biological  Station..........................................
Biological Station, Special Building.........................
Geology  Field  Course.......................................
3. EXTENSION
U niversity   Extension.......................................


o.......'........
6,365.67
1,400.00


I,379.14
862.62
514.10


157.67
I30.41
71.72
34.40
25.00........


157.67
130.41
71.72
34.40
25.00
7,744.81


I......................  272.75


5. OPERATION A AND MAAINTENANCE OF PHYSICAL PLANT
Departiment of Buildings and Grounds
I.aundry............................................................     I4,83I.53
Laundry Equipment.........................................
Library Elevator Repairs...................................o.......               I  o0.00
Installation University Hospital Refrigeration Plant...........................
6. PHYSICAL PLANT EXTENSION


862.62  43.,9I4.IO,i
272.75 
r,83153,83I.53  C,,,735.99  ~,o00.00  x\
574.48 


4,735-99
574.48


14
4
I


Paving South and East University Avenue................
Total Balances Carried Over from 1920-1921......


~.........  15,919.61........    I5,9I1.61
$I45,768.27   $77,374.49  $48,972.00  $272, I I4.76 




OVERDRAFTS IN ANTICIPATION OF THE 192I-1922 BUDGET
To BE DEDUCTED


I. ADMINISTRATION AND GENERAL
Other General Offices
Salaries
Department                                                  and Wages
Dictaphone Station.................................................
General Accounts
Diplomas........................................................
Interest.............................................................


Current
Expense    Equipment
$.79........
231.63........
3.24........


2. DEPARTMENTS OF INSTRUCTION AND RESEARCH
A. SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES


Total      7
$.79   `
t
231.63   h
3.24.
115.96  \o
21.77 o.88  \o
Iy


College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Geology...........................................................
Latin...........................................................
Science   B uilding....................................................
Colleges of Engineering and Architecture
Engineering Shops.................................................
Engineering Shops, Central Shops Labor....................              863.47
Mechanical Engineering.............................................
Surveying, Summer Camp Fee Fund.................................


115.96
21.77.88
1,565.02....  o. -
89.22
193.87


1,565.02
863.47
89.22
I93.87




Schools and Colleges not Subdivided into Departments
Law School, Law Review............................................        224.02
School of Education................................................         25.24
School of Education, Industrial Education Current...........        $6,720.69       1,470.04
(To be reimbursed from    Smith-Hughes Fund)
B. INDEPENDENT DEPARTMENTS OR DIVISIONS
General  Library...............................................         47.13
General Library, Book Buying Trip..................................        300.00
General Library, Completing Library Equipment...............................
General Library, Reference Book Fund.......................................
D ental  Library,  Books......................................................
D ental  Library,  Fee  Fund.....................................................
Law    Library,  Fee  Fund......................................................
M edical  Library,  Books.......................................................
University  M useum..................................................               I50.45
University Hospital:
Internal Medicine, Central Laboratory............................          8.33
N eurology........................................................         22.52
4. BUSINESS DEPARTMENTS
Storehouse..........................................................              85,371.20
Buildings and Grounds, Revolving Labor.............................       4,712.57
5. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PHYSICAL PLANT
Department of Buildings and Grounds
G ravel  Pit..........................................................       4,670.65
Fuel................................................................      41,707.78
Cheever House Alteration...........................................       305.10


224.02
25.24
I8,190.73


$ 4,854.81
365.22
164.27
380.85
72.06
76.I3...........-.


47.13   C
300.00.
4,854.8 I
365.22   r
164.27   h
380.85    1
72.06   '
76.13,
I50.45   >a
8.33 
22.52   k
(\J!5,37I.20 '
4,712.57  ty........        c.........     i.........14,670.65........     4,707.78........    3   o305.10


K)
W0




7. RESIDENCE HALLS
Salaries      Current
and Wages      Expense     Equipment       Total
Betsy Barbour House.........................................................       4,99348       4,993.48
Total Overdrafts Carried Over from    I920-I92I....           $I7,584.16   $I61,237.4I  $IO,905.82   $I89.728.39
RECAPITULATION
Budget of I921-I922, General Funds, as approved May 27, 1921...................................... $4,406,429.53
Less Summer Session included in above as per Regents' Actions as follows:
Meeting December 3, I920-Page 8I......................................... $  2,0Io.00
Meeting December 3, I92-Page 83...........................................     47,54.63    49,254.63
Net Budget after deducting Summer Session...................................................... $4,257,I74.90
Balances  carried   over  from  I920- 92I.................................................................  272, II4.7
Totals........................................                                                   $4,529,289.66
Overdrafts  carried  over  from   I920-921...............................................................  I89,728.39
N et.........................................$4,339,561.27
Appropriations  June  22,  192I...........................................................23,100.00
Appropriations  June  28,  92I........................................................................   3,6oo.oo
A ppropriations   June   28,  92I.........................................................................  I,  3.O
Total Net Current Appropriations to June 28. I92I, inclusive......................................$4,367,251.27




SEPTEMBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY oS MICHIGAN, )
ANN ARBOR, SEPTEMBER 30, 1921 
The Board met in the Regents' Room        at 9:45 A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent
Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Hanchett, Regent Murfin. Absent, Regent Sawyer, who later took his seat, Regent
Gore, and Superintendent Johnson.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the
meetings of June 22 and June 28 were approved as submitted to the members in proof, with certain specified
changes.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Executive Committee
actions were approved and confirmed as recorded in the
Committee's minutes as follows:June 30, 1921
Present, the entire Committee.
The salary of Professor L. M. Newburgh on the "fulltime" budget of the University Hospital was fixed at the
rate of $5,000 per year to date from July I, 1921, and to
continue so long as he should be Acting Head of the Department of Internal Medicine.
The Committee voted that there would be no change in
the fees to be charged patients in the Maternity Ward of
the University Hospital.
The budget of the University Hospital was adopted as
submitted by Dr. Parnall, including the additional amount
allowed for Professor Newburgh, as follows:Estimated Income......................       $595,8oo
Pay  Roll.............................. $283,962
Current Expenses (Including Roentgenology)................................  3II,580
Total......................................595,542
plus the following current expense accounts and equipment
accounts of clinical departments:



248


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1921


Current    EquipExpenses    ment     Totals
Dermatology & Syphilology...$ I,I00  $  615    $ 1,715
Internal Medicine........... 5,850    5,459    I,309
Neurology...................  500      470       970
Obstetrics & Gynecology...... 3,I50    1,050    4,200
Opthalmology................  8oo      9oo      1,700
Otolaryngology.............. 1,150     I,000    2,150
Pediatrics & Infectious Diseases.....................,435  225  1,66o
Serology.....................  I00     I00       200
Surgery....................  6,593  2,940  9,533
Totals...................$20,678  $I2,759  $33,437
In adopting the Hospital budget as above, the Committee voted that if the Hospital shall not under this budget
prove self-sustaining during the first few months of the
year and if, not later than December I, it shall not show
indications of being self-sustaining during the entire year,
the Regents will consider a revision of the rates charged
patients.
Harry M. Nelson was appointed Resident Assistant in
Surgery at a salary of $1,300 on the twelve-months' basis.
This sum was added to the budget.
The salary of Carolyn M. Fraser, Assistant to the Professor of Surgery, was increased from $2,oco to $2,250, thus
adding $250 to the budget.
The Committee added $620 to the budget of the Department of Serology and this sum, plus the $120 originally provided for a caretaker, is to be used for the appointment of
an additional assistant at $800.
The Committee declined to authorize changes in University Hall Auditorium to adapt it to Dramatics. The
Secretary was directed to find out if the proposed changes
in Newberry Hall and in the old Michigan Union building
for the latter of which the Michigan Union has provided the
sum of $3,500, could not be joined and the same objects accomplished by changes in Newberry Hall under the appropriation made by the directors of the Michigan Union. The
Committee authorized an expenditure from the University
funds not in excess of $,000o if necessary, to carry out the
proj ect.
The Committee authorized an additional half-time stenographer for the clinic of Dental Surgery on condition




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1921


249


that no increase in the total budget of the clinic should be
caused thereby.
The Committee formally voted the promotion of Dr.
Edward L. Adams, Assistant Professor of Romance Languages, to an Associate Professorship with compensation of
$3,500 per year beginning with the University year I921 -1922. This action increased the budget by $500.
July 5, I921
Present, the entire Committee.
The Committee added $373.33 to the Administrative
Budget, College cf Literature, Science, and the Arts. This
sum added to a saving of $460 already made is intended to
provide the salary from September I, 1921, to June 30,
1922, of an additional clerk for the office of Registrar A. G.
Hall, at the rate of $I,oco per year, twelve-months' basis.
July I5, I92I
Present, the entire Committee.
In view of the impossibility of securing a permanent
successor to Professor Stanley as head of the Department
of Music, it was voted, on recommendation of Dean Effinger, and other authorities concerned, to ask Assistant Professor Earl Moore to act as Head of the Department of
Music for 1921-1922, with compensation increased from
$I,6oo to $2,000 for that year.
It was understood that the University School of Music
would appoint Professor Moore as Acting Conductor of the
Choral Union, and would also appoint Mr. Albert Lockwood, of the School of Music Faculty, as Acting Director
of that School.
July 20, 1921
Present, Regent Sawyer and Regent Beal.
The Committee fixed the salary of Miss Emma Hartshorn, Secretary to the Dean of the Homoeopathic Medical
School, at $I,o8o per year. This technically involved an increase in the budget of $270. As Miss Hartshorn had for the
past year been paid at the rate of $I,020 per year, it actually
represented an increase of only $60. The sum of $8Io appearing in the budget was due to a combination of misunderstandings.
Also, the Committee allowed $200 per year for special
help hired by the hour in the Homoeopathic Medical School.




250


SEPTEMBER MEETING, I921


July 23, I921
Present, Regent Sawyer and Regent Beal.
It was voted not to accede to the suggestion af the Cheboygan Mining and Prospecting Company that the University give that company a lease according to which it should
be allowed to drill for oil and other minerals on the Camp
Davis or Biological Station grounds.
July 25, I92I
Present, Regent Sawyer and Regent Beal.
The Committee authorized the continuance of Dr. J.
WTayne Johnston as Instructor in Roentgenology during the
months of July, August, September, and October, with salary
at the rate of $1,500 per year, payable out of salary allowance for an Assistant Professorship in the Roentgenology
Department remaining unfilled.
July 26, 1921
Present, Regent Sawyer and Regent Beal.
The Committee took the following actions, believing
the same to be required by necessity:I. For offices of Dean Bursley and Registrar Hall with
use of Room IOI, north wing, for Registrar Hall, $2,052.
2. Repairs and equipment for Newberry Hall, $2,000
($I,oco additional.) The limit of this expense fixed June
30 was $I,ooo.. It did not prove feasible for the Michigan
Union to use Newberry Hall. This estimate contemplates
the use of the present boiler and heating system in Newberry
Hall, with some repairs, and does not contemplate attaching the heating system to the University central plant. It
contemplates securing at least three good class rooms,
and a large lecture room. Nearly half the $2,000 will be
required for recitation benches, seat arms for the large
lecture room, and other equipment.
Charles B. Gordy was appointed Assistant Professor of
Industrial Engineering in the Department of Mechanical
Engineering, with a salary of $2,800 for the University year
1921-1922, within the budget.
Attendance by Professor Arthur H. Blanchard at a conference on Highway Economics, at Washington, D. C., July
27, was authorized. Later circumstances prevented Professor
Blanchard's going.
July 27, 1921
Present, Regent Sawyer and Regent Beal.
The Committee authorized a leave of absence on half
pay of $I,250, to Dr. George A. Lindsay, Assistant Professor




SEPTEMBER ME'ETING, I92I


251


of Physics, for the University year 1921-1922. Dr. Lindsay's
work will be cared for in so far as it is not taken over by
colleagues without extra compensation, by the aid of an Assistant at $800. This makes a net saving of $450.
August 3, 1921
Present, Regent Sawyer and Regent Beal.
The Committee approved the appointment of Dr. Ernest
F. Barker, Research Fellow   of the National Research
Council, as Lecturer in Physics without pay, for the University year I92I-I922, under the circumstances set forth
in a communication from Professor Randall, approved by
Deans Lloyd and Effinger.
August 9, 1921
Present, Regent Sawyer and Regent Beal.
The Committee set aside the following sums of money
from general funds for the purposes specified:$1,200 for enlarging the diet kitchen on the third floor of the
Palmer Ward, University Hospital.
$832.90 for alterations of the Camp House in order that eight
more nurses may be accommodated.
Further, the Committee gave its approval to the expenditure of the item of $36o'carried in the Hospital budget
of 1921-1922 for maintenance of an automobile, this sum to
be paid in monthly installments of $30 to Mr. Robert Greve,
Business Officer, as estimated reimbursement for the use of
his personal car, gasoline, and oil on the numerous errands
which he is obliged to perform about town, and on occasional buying trips into the country.
The Committee made the following appointments, year
I921-I922, for the special training of social service workers
as'provided in the May Meeting of the Regents (see pages
197-198):
Fred R. Johnson, A.B., L.L.B., Associate Secretary of Detroit Community Union, Lecturer in Sociology, $800.
Miss N. L. Perkins, Ph.D., Directing Psychologist in the
Detroit Psychopathic Clinic, Lecturer in Psychiatry, $800,
Further, the Committee approved the printing of a
special announcement of the curriculum of the training of
social service workers, to be paid for out of the sum of
$900 remaining.
The expenditure of the sum of $2,500 as specified above
was assumed by the action of the Board in May, but the
formal addition to the budget is now made.




252


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1921


August i8, 1921
Present, Regent Sawyer and Regent Beal.
The Committee approved the appointment of Orlan W.
Boston as Assistant Professor of Machine Shop Practice,
at a salary of $3,ooo, for the University year, I92I-I922.
This salary is taken from the budget appropriation of $4,000
for the salary of Professor Miggett, cohtinuing on leave.
August I9, 1921
Present, Regent Beal and Regent Sawyer.
The Committee added the sum of $955.50 to the Buildings and Grounds equipment account, to be used for the
purchase of the following:Small precision  bench  lathe...................$300
Side grinder emery wheel................... 1oo
Chuck for small drill press coil former........  I0
Gas and air for work bench................. 125
Electric  drill................................  oo00
Electric hammer............................ oo00
Miscellaneous tools, such as wood bits, saws,
wrenches, hammers, twist drills, pipe dies,
wood    chisels,  etc.......................  200
No. 5937 Level Rod..........................  II 50
Kidder's Building Construction Handbook....  9
$955 oo
September 9, 1921
Present, the President, Regent Beal, and Regent Sawyer.
The Committee authorized the change of a half-time
clerk and stenographer in the School of Education at $600
per year to 'a full-time clerk and stenographer with salary
at the rate of $I,500 per year, and appointed Miss Elsie
Whipple to the position to date from September 20. This
action added approximately $720 to the budget.
Additions to the general budget made by the Executive
Committee, as above recorded, are summarized as follows,
the University Hospital budget not included:June   30 Surgery Salaries..........$I,550.00
Serology Salaries.........  620.00
Newberry Hall Repairs....,ooo.oo0
Colleges of Engineering and
Architecture: M o d e r n
Language Salaries.....  500.00 $ 3,670.00




SEPTEMBER MEETING, I92I


253


July    5 Literature, Science, and the
A r t s:  Administrative
Salaries...............  373.33    373.33
July   20 Homoeopathic    M e d i c a l
School Salaries........  470.00    470.00
July   26 Newberry Hall Repairs....,ooo.oo0
Dean of Students and Registrar's Offices Repairs. 2,052.00  3,052.00
Aug.    9 Palmer Ward Diet Kitchen
Repairs................  1,200.00
Camp House for Nurses Repairs..................  832.90  2,032.90
Economics (Sociology) Salaries.................  I,6oo.oo
Economics (Sociology) Current...................  goo.oo  2,500.00
Aug.   19 Bldgs. and Grounds Equipment..................  955.50     955.50
Sept.  g Education Salaries.........  720.00     720.00
Total......................$I3,773.73
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the following report of
the Salaries Committee was approved and the action confirmed:July 6, I92I
Present, Regent Gore and Regent Murfin.
The salaries of Assistant Professors Wells I. Bennett
and Martin J. Orbeck, of the Department of ~Stereotomy
and Drawing, referred to this Committee with power at
the meeting of the Regents held June 28 (see page 217), were
fixed at $2,900 each for 1921-1922. The sum of $400 involved in the increase of $200 each, is to be taken from the
appropriation of $I,375 for Student Assistants.
Regent Leland filed the annual report of the Secretary
and the Treasurer of the University for the year ended
June 30, I921, presenting the balance sheet with the usual
schedules of income and expenditures, assets, trust fund investments, etc.   On motion of Regent Leland, the report
was accepted and adopted as the Regents' Report to the
Governor of the State, and the printing of the usual number
of copies was authorized.
Regent Sawyer took his seat.




254


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 192I


Regent Beal reported to the Board with respect to the
value and the probability of an advantageous sale of Newaygo County lands owned by the University. These holdings
are listed in the real estate file in the Secretary's office as
No. 7-B. (See page 172). Regent Beal read a letter from
Mr. Milo A. White of Fremont, Mich., relative to the
questions involved.  On motion of Regent Murfin, the
Board directed that a letter be sent to Mr. White authorizing the sale of the property, with an indication of what
would be regarded as a satisfactory price.
Regent Beal presented correspondence from Professor
Kelsey with regard to a collection of papyri which had
come to light very recently. Professor Kelsey urged the importance, from a scholarly point of view, of acquiring this
collection for the University. On motion of Regent Clements, the Board voted to refer this question to Regent Beal,
to negotiate for the purchase of a part or all of the collection,
with power to expend not to exceed $2,500.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to
comply with the recommendation of Treasurer Campbell for
an increase in two salaries in the Treasurer's office.
The President presented the written resignation of Mr.
Oscar L. Buhr as Assistant to the President, effective as of
September I, I92I. Mr. Buhr desired to take up a business
connection in Detroit. On motion of Regent Sawyer, the
resignation was accepted.
The President presented the written acceptance of Colonel Harry Willard Miller of the professorship of Descriptive Geometry, Mechanism, and Drawing at the annual
salary of $5,ooo as provided in the budget.
The President presented a letter from Mr. Everett L.
Hackes, former Instructor in French, requesting further
consideration of the question of an additional salary allowance to him following the termination of his work in the
University year I920-I92I because of his illness (see page
I94). No action was taken on this request.
The President presented a letter from the Adjutant
General's Office, Washington, giving authority for the establishment of a Senior Infantry Unit of the Reserve Officers'
Training Corps at the University.
The President presented a letter from Dean Edward H.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1921


255


Kraus of the Summer Session, stating that he had been
able to avoid the use of the sum of $3,000 set aside as an
emergency fund for the Summer Session (see page 208),
and that the Summer Session would in fact turn back to the
general fund a balance of at least $8oo.
The President presented a letter signed by a committee
of the class in Embalming and Sanitary Science, Summer
Session of I92I, expressing appreciation of the scholarships
offered by the Michigan Funeral Directors and Embalmers
Association.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board approved the
continuance during the University year I921-1922 of the
usual dental clinic for school children of Ann Arbor. The
sum of $200 was set aside as the compensation of Dr. Henry
Hicks as demonstrator in charge and $25 additional to
cover materials. The salary of the demonstrator and the
cost of the materials will be reimbursed to the University by
the Ann Arbor Board of Education.
On motion of Regent Sawyer the Board adopted the
following resolution. This action was formal and involved
no increase in the budget as the required sum was included in
the budget as originally adopted (see page I86).
Resolved, That the University of Michigan is authorized
to cooperate with the United States Interdepartmental Social
Hygiene Board, and the sum of Three Thousand ($3,ooo.oo00)
Dollars, equal to the sum to be received from the United:States, is hereby set aside for the purpose of discovering,
in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United
States Interdepartmental Social Hygiene Board, more effective measures in the preevntion and treatment of venereal
diseases.
The Secretary read the following letter, together with a
letter from Miss Sarah Whedon, Regent of the Sarah Caswell Angell Chapter, transmitting a check for $200.
To the Honorable Board of Regents,
University of Michigan:The Sarah Caswell Angell Chapter, Daughters of the
American Revolution, desires to establish in memory of
Mrs. James,B. Angell and in commemoration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the founding of the Chapter through
her instrumentality, a loan fund for women students of the




256


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 192I


University of Michigan, to be called the Sarah Caswell Angell Loan Fund of tbaz Sarah Caswell Angell Chapter.
Daughters of the American Revolution; and to place in the
care of the Treasurer of the University a sum of money,
with later additions as the growth of the fund shall permit,
to be held in trust for that purpose. The money is to be
loaned to women of the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, in their third or fourth year of college work, in
amounts not exceeding one hundred dollars at the discretion of the committee. Loans shall be without interest until one year after graduation, and if not repaid by that
time shall bear interest at the rate of five per cent per annum. The fund shall be administered by a committee consisting of the regent and the chairman of the Loan Fund
Committee of the Chapter and the Dean of Women of the
University, and applicants shall satisfy this committee as to
personal character, scholarship, and need of assistance, according to the rules laid down by the University in regard
to student loan funds.
Respectfully submitted,
HELEN B. BEMAN
CAROLINE C. LOMBARD
FINIE B. BISHOP
LOAN FUND COMMITTEE
Ann Arbor, Michigan
September, I92I
On motion of Regent Murfin, this scholarship was accepted and the President was requested to express to the
ladies of the D. A. R. sincere appreciation of the Regents for
their generous cooperation with the work of the University.
The President and Secretary called the attention of the
Regents to difficulties and misunderstandings which had
arisen in connection with the administration of the Board's
new rules (see page 217) for concessions in fees to instructors in the University and to teachers in other public
and private schools of the State. The President and Secretary asked for instructions on certain points. On motion of
Regent Murfin, the Board voted that the privilege of "parttime enrollment" should be restricted to persons who are
actually engaged in teaching in the common sense of the
term, and that this privilege should entitle such teachers to
enrollment in the Graduate School or in the College of




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 192I


257


Literature, Science, and the Arts and not in other schools or
colleges of the University; further that the privilege accorded to professors, assistant professors, or instructors of enrolling in the Graduate School without payment of fees
should not extend to other ranks or to other schools or
colleges of the University; that previous legislation of the
Regents not in accordance with the above-mentioned legislation and with the interpretation thereof here appearing,
should be no longer operative.
President Emeritus Hutchins and Dean Henry M. Bates
appeared and discussed with the Regents questions involved
in the suggestion of an alumnus of the University that he
might erect for the University certain new buildings if
proper sites therefor were provided by the University itself.
Following an extended discussion, the Board took a recess
for lunch.
AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at I:30. Present, the President, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent
Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Hanchett, Regent Murfin. Absent, Regent Gore and Superintendent Johnson.
The President filed a letter from Professor Wooster W.
Beman expressing his gratification at the appreciative resolutions adopted by the Regents on the occasion of his completion of fifty years of continuous service (see page 208.)
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to
authorize the registration of George W. Whitney on a fee
prorated in accordance with Mr. Whitney's absence from the
session of I920-I92I.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to
authorize the registration, as a resident of Michigan, of Mr.
Bernard Crane who had come to the University as an alien
non-resident and who had while continuously enrolled in the
University obtained his first citizenship papers.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Secretary was requested to present to the Regents a list of all University officials
or employees handling University funds, with a statement of
the amounts ordinaiily in the custody of each, and the surety
bonds at present furnished by such employees.




258


SEPTEMBER MEETING, I92I


In accordance with direction (see page 212) the Secretary filed the following schedule designating each Regent in
turn as a committee to initial the University vouchers:September and October, I92 —Regent Hubbard
November and December, I92I-Regent Clements
January and February, I922-Regent Leland
March and April, I922-Regent Murfin
May and June, I922-Regent Sawyer
July and August, I922-Regent Hanchett
September and October, I922-Regent Beal
November and December, 1922-Regent Gore
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board appointed committees in accordance with the schedule, with the privilege
of exchange between committeemen as individual circumstances might make necessary or desirable.
The Secretary filed a letter from Dean Cabot stating that
Dr. John T. Connell, appointed Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, had not reported for duty after August 31.
On motion of Regent Leland, this assistant professorship
was therefore declared vacant as of that date.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Margaret Woodwell was
appointed Half-Time Assistant in Internal Medicine with
compensation of $I,oo0 for the University year I92I-I922.
This sum was added to the budget.
A request was received from Dean Cabot for the appointment of Emilie S. Perry as Illustrator of Clinic Publications
with compensation at the rate of $2,000 per year to be
charged to the budget of the University Hospital, it being
understood that this adjustment had the approval of Professor Christopher G. Parnall, Director of the Hospital.
Regent Murfin moved that this request be denied. The
motion was lost by a vote of three to four. Regent Hanchett moved that the request be granted and this action was
taken by the following vote:-  Aye, Regent Beal, Regent
Sawyer, Regent Clements, Regent Hanchett, Regent Hubbard; No, Regent Leland, Regent Murfin.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the sum of $I,200 was
added to the administrative salary roll of the Medical School,
and Miss Gladys Morton was appointed Stenographer and
Clerk with compensation at the rate of $I,200 per year, to
date from July I, I92I.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, I921


259


The Secretary reported the following resignations, appointments, and other changes in the University staff, as
approved and authorized by the President under the legislation of the Board (see page 23):RESIGNATIONS AND DECLINATIONS
Marion A. Goodrich, Assistant Registrar in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, resigned June 30, I92I.
A. P. Ohlmacher, Summer Assistant in Bacteriology, Medical School, declined appointment.
Walter Rusche, Dispensing   Assistant in the  Chemical
Laboratory, Department of Chemistry, resigned August
3I, 1921.
Nels Olson, Assistant in Otology, Rhinology, and Laryngology, Homoeopathic Medical School, resigned September 30, I92I.
Earle H. Ketcham, Assistant in charge Graduate Reading
Room, General Library, resigned August 31, I92I.
Frederick F. Telmos, Assistant at Corridor Desk, General
Library, resigned September 20, 192I.
Elinor Mullett, Junior Cataloger in General Library, resigned
September I, 1921.
Mabel Watts, Junior Assistant in Graduate Reading Room,
General Library, resigned September I, 1921.
Lewis R. Williams, Assistant in Study Hall, General Library,
resigned August 31, I921.
Nancy B. Thomas, Assistant in Graduate Reading Room
No. 2, General Library, resigned June 30, 1921.
Kathryn Wilson, Cataloger in General Library, resigned
September 30, I92I.
Mary L. Steere, Assistant at Corridor Desk, General
Library, resigned June 30, 1921.
Raymond E. Esslinger, Accountant in Chemical Laboratory,
Department of Chemistry, resigned September I6, 1921.
APPOINTMENTS
(All for the academic year I92I-I922, unless otherwise
stated)
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Administration
Neva M. Nelson, Clerk to the Registrar, from September I,
1921, $I000 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Harriett Gleason, Correspondence Clerk to the Registrar,
from July I, 1921, $840 per year, twelve-months' basis.




260


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 192I


George A. Schemm, Messenger in the Office of the Dean,
$250.
Floyd A. Sergeant, Messenger in the Office of the Dean,
$250.
Martha Seeley, Clerk to the Assistant Dean, from September I5, $1300 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Botany
Carl D. LaRue, Instructor, $2400.
E. H. Walker, Under-graduate Assistant, $300.
Mana Kilpatrick, Under-graduate Assistant, $300.
Hugh B. Smith, half-time Graduate Assistant, $250.
George B. Sartoris, Graduate Assistant, $500.
Martha Best, Graduate Assistant, $500o.
L. E. Wehmeyer, Graduate Assistant, $500.
Dow V. Baxter, Graduate Assistant, $500.
Mabel Peters, Graduate Assistant, $500.
W. A. Archer, Graduate Assistant, $500.
Botanical Gardens
J. J. VanAkkeren, Assistant Gardener, vice Robert E.
Reed, resigned, from July I6, 1921, $Ioo per month.
Economics
Karl W. Guenther, Instructor, $I500.
Seward L. Horner, half-time Instructor, $750.
S. C. Oppenheim, Instructor, $I500,
George S. Peterson, Instructor, $I500.
Herbert F. Taggart, Instructor, $I60o.
J. P. Troxtell, Instructor, $I50o.
Herman Wyngaarden, Instructor, $I500.
L. A. Itzkovich, Assistant Librarian in Economics Reading
Room, from July I, I92I, $900 per year, twelve-months'
basis.
Bruce Knight, half-time Instructor, $750.
Forestry
L. J. Young, "Farmer" at the Forest Nursery, during July,
August, and September, $Ioo per month.
History
Preston Slosson, Instructor, $2000.
Mathenmatics
John P. Ballantine, Instructor; $2000.
Mineralogy
Edward F. Holden, Instructor, $I500.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, I92I


26i


Philosophy and Psychology
Carl R. Brown, Instructor in Psychological Laboratory,
$2000.
Forrest L. Dimmick, Instructor in the Psychological Laboratory, $2200.
Adelbert Ford, Instructor in the Psychological Laboratory,
$2000.
Robert 0. Smiley, Assistant, $I50.
Leon B. 'Slater, Assistant, $500.
Martha Guernsey, special Teaching and Research Assistant,
$2000.
Helena Silver, Assistant, $I50.
Helen Kurti, Assistant, $400.
Howard Hart, Assistant, $300.
Harry A. Hart, Assistant, $300.
Lowell J. Carr, Research Assistant for July, August, and
September, $200 for the period.
Elmer DeGowin, Assistant, $I50.
Lawrence Cole, Assistant, $500.
Norman Cameron, Assistant, $300.
Amos C. Anderson, Assistant, $400.
Political Science
Clifford W. Ham, Assistant in the Legislative Research
Bureau, from July I, I92I to March 31, 1922, $Ioo per
month.
Rhetoric and Journalism
Hobart R. Coffee, Instructor in Rhetoric, $I500.
Herbert C. Greenland, Instructor in Rhetoric, $I600.
Amos R. Morris, Instructor in Rhetoric, two-thirds time,
$I000.
Marjorie B. Avery, Assistant in Rhetoric, $250.
Neil W. Cook, Assistant in Rhetoric, $400.
Ruth E. Wood, Assistant in Rhetoric, $250.
Edwin K. Burrows, Instructor in Journalism, $2000.
Ben W. Lewis, Assistant in Journalism, $500.
Romance Languages
Octave Antonio, Instructor, $I500.
Marcel Clavel, Instructor, $2200.
Abraham Herman, Instructor, $I500.
Andrew R. Morehouse, Instructor, $2000.
Agapito Rey, Instructor, $I500.
G. Herrera, half-time Instructor, $80o.




262


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1921


COLLEGES 0f EgNGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
A dminiistration
Genevieve Sproat, half-time Stenographer, from July 6, I92I,
to September I, I92I, $50 per month.
Chemical Engineering
Lester A. Pridgeon, Instructor, $I500.
Civil Engineering
Gilbert A. Hunt, Instructor, $2000.
V. Gladys Day, Stenographer, from September 15, I92I, to
June 15, 1922, $I00 per month.
Electrical Engineering
Andrew L. Miller, Instructor, $I500.
Enginecering MlIechanics
Russell Alger Dodge, Instructor, $2000.
Engineering Shops
Ross L. Marshall, Instructor in Machine Shop Practice,
from July I, I921, $I900, twelve-months' basis.
English
Howard D. Roelofs, Instructor, $I500.
Mlodern Languages
William H. Grant, Instructor, $I500.
Surveying
Clarence N. Johnston, Assistant at Camp Davis, from July
I, 1921 to September 23, 1921, $375, for the twelve
weeks,
MEDICAL SCHOOL
Anatomy
James W. Hall, Laboratory Attendant, from September I,
I92I, $IOoo, twelve-months' basis.
Hygiene and Bacteriology
Clarence H. Crego, Assistant in Bacteriology, $Iooo.
Harold A. Furlong, Assistant in Bacteriology, $Iooo.
Max S. Marshall, Summer Assistant in Bacteriology, vice A.
P. Ohlmacher, resigned, from July I, I92I, to October I,
1921, $250 for the period.
Max S. Marshall, Research Assistant in Bacteriology, $Iooo.
Shelby W. Wishart, Assistant in Bacteriology, $Iooo.
George. W  Collins, Assistant in Hygiene, $Iooo.
Internal Medicinie
Aline Cake, Technician in the Laboratory, from July I,
I92I to June 30, 1922, $90 per month.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1921


263


Ennis H. Corley, Stenographer in Out-Patients' Office, vice
Fern Luther, resigned, from June 6, 1921, $o08o per year,
twelve-months' basis.
I. W. Greene, Assistant, from July I, 1921, without pay.
Obstetrics and Gynecology
Lena E. Moore, Stenographer, from August I, 1921, $1200
per year, twelve-months' basis.
Ophthalmology
Albert S. Barr, Instructor, from July I, 1921, $600o per year,
twelve-months' basis.
Ralph E. Boice, Assistant, from July I, 1921, $I500.
Pathology
A. J. Cone, Technical Assistant, vice F. L. Bolton, resigned,
from July I, 1921, $I5C0 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Lucille Grant, half-time Technical Assistant, for month of
June at $500 per year, twelve-months' basis; full-time
Technical Assistant at $Iooo per year, twelve-months'
basis, for months of July and August.
Serology
James J. Fahey, Assistant, from August I, 921, $8oo00 per
year, twelve-months' basis.
CHEMISTRY
Chemical Laboratory.
Ernest R. Johnson, Director's First Assistant, $750.
P. L, Ivanoff, full-time Dispensing Assistant, from July 14
1921, $1200 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Marvin S. Carr, Lecture Assistant, for Summer School of
1921, $I50 for the period.
Belton Eiding, Dispensing Assistant, from August 15, 1921
to September I, 1921, $Ioo per month or $54.84 for the
period.
Walter Rusche, full-time Dispensing Assistant, from July i,
192I, $Ioo per month.
Belton Eiding, Dispensing Assistant, vice Walter Rusche,
resigned, from September I, 1921, $ioo per month.
Edgar Meads, full-time Dispensing Assistant, from July I,
1921, $I200 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Harold F. Palmer, full-time Dispensing Assistant, from
July I, 1921, $ico per month.
A. W. Van Benschoten, full-time Dispensing Assistant, from
July I, 192I, $1200 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Gladys Walker, Accounting Assistant, from July I, 1921,
$1240 per year, twelve-months' basis.




264           SEPTEMBER MEETING, I921
General and Physical Chemistry
Philip E. Weatherill, Instructor, $2000.
COLLEGE OF PHARMACY
Charles H. Stocking, Secretary, $250.
Leonard P. Wagener, Instructor, $1500.
HOMOtOPATHIC MEDICAL SCHOOL
Internal Medicine
Horace L. French, Assistant, from July I, 1921, $500 per
year, twelve-months' basis.
Otology
Neis Olson, Assistant in Otology, Rhinology, and Laryngology, from July I, 1921 to October I, 1921, $6oo per
year, twelve-months' basis.
Ralph W. Ridge, Assistant in Otology, Rhinology, and
Laryngology, vice Nels Olson, resigned, from October
I, 1921, $900 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Harvey R. Wynn, Instructor in Otology, Rhinology, and
Laryngology, from July I, 1921, $1200 per year, twelvemonths' basis.
Social Service
Elmie W. Mallory, Instructor and Supervisor, from July I,
I92I, $1200 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Surgery
James K. Durling, Instructor, from July I, 1921, $200o per
year, twelve-months' basis.
Wilbur W., Williams, Assistant, from July I, I92I, $900 per
year, twelve-months' basis.
COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY
Ralph H. Dimock, half-time Instructor in Junior Technics,
$1500.
Alice G. LeFever, Stenographer, from September I, 1921,
$Ioo per month.
Ray F. Cannon, Demonstrator in the Clinic, $1350, payments
to be made in nine installments of $I50 each.
Ray V. Chase, Demonstrator in the Clinic, $I350, payments
to be made in nine installments of $I5o each.
Henry Hicks, Demonstrator in the Clinic, $1350, payments to
be made in nine installments of $I5o each.
Lawrence G. Raub, Demonstrator in the Clinic, $I350, payments to be made in nine installments of $I50 each.
A. Mark Yeager, Demonstrator in the Clinic, $I350, payments to be made in nine installments of $I50 each.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1921                       265
Erma Webb, Nurse, $1260, payments to be made in nine installments of $I40 each.
GENERAL LIBRARY
Abby L. Barney, temporary Reviser in the Catalogue Department, vice Ella Hymans, promoted, $I500, from September 6, I92I.
Catherine Campbell, Clerk in the Order Department, from
August 15, 1921, $1200, twelve-months' basis.
Will H. Collins, Assistant in charge Graduate Reading
Room, vice Earle H. Ketcham, resigned, from September I5, $I700 per year.
Frederick F. Telmos, temporarily appointed as Assistant at
the Corridor Desk, vice Edwin L. Theurer, promoted,
from July I, 1921 to September 20, 1921, $I000 per year,
twelve-months' basis.
Donald Coney, Assistant at Corridor Desk, vice Frederick F.
Telmos, resigned, from  September 2I, 1921, $I000 per
year, twelve-months' basis.
Joseph Dickinson, Assistant in the Library Extension Service,
vice Hester Reed, promoted, from September 15, 1921,
$I200 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Randall French, Stack Clerk,.vice Edward H. Eppens, promoted, from July I, I92I, twelve-months' basis, $I200
per year.
Cordelia L. Haagen, in charge of Exchanges and Duplicates
in Order Department, from July I, 1921, $1700 per year,
twelve-months' basis.
J. Harold Hathaway, Junior Assistant in Medical Reading
Room, during month of August, $I200, twelve-months'
basis.
Josephine Holcombe, Cataloger, vice Rebecca Wilson, promoted, from September I, I92I, $IIOO per year, twelvemonths' basis.
Dorothy Ide, half-time Typist and Multigrapher in Catalogue
Department, $500 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Virginia White, half-time Typist and Multigrapher in Catalogue Department, $500 per year, twelve-months' basis.
Julia Lockwood, Junior Assistant in the Graduate Reading
Room, vice Mabel Watts, resigned, from September I5,
I92I, $IIoo per year, twelve-months' basis.
Murza Mann, Assistant-in Graduate Reading Room No. 2,
vice William Poorman, transferred, from September I5,
1921, $IIOO.
Martha Mohnke, full-time Stenographer, vice herself and




266          SEPTEMBER IMEETING, 192I
Marjorie Bronson, from July i, 1921, $I200 per year,
twelve-months' basis.
Elinor Mullett, Assistant Cataloger in Catalogue Department, from July I, I92I, $II00 per year, twelve-months'
basis.
Dorothy Pettit, Assistant at Corridor Desk, vice J. E. Dickinson, promoted, from  September 15, $IOoo per year,
twelve-months' basis.
William  F. Poorman, temporary Assistant in Graduate
Reading Room No. 2, vice Nancy B. Thomas resigned,
$IIoo, twelve-months' basis, for July and August.
William Poorman, Assistant in Upper Study Hall, from
September I5, 1921, $o000 per year, twelve-months' basis.
William Randall, Clerk at Corridor Desk, vice Randall
French, promoted, from September 20, I9,2I, $II00 per
year, twelve-months' basis.
Elizabeth Sherman, Assistant in Upper Study Hall, from
August I, I921, $1ooo per year, twelve-months' basis.
Clara Shinover, Assistant in Upper Study Hall, vice Elizabeth Sherman, promoted, $Iooo.
Nellie Thornton, Assistant in Study Hall, vice Lewis
Williams, resigned, from September I, 1921, $IIoo per
year, twelve-months' basis.
Kathryn Wilson, Assistant in Catalogue Department, vice
Elinor Mullett, promoted from July I, 1921, $II00 per
year, twelve-months' basis.
MUSEUM OF ZOOLOGY
Doreen Potter, Assistant, from Sepetmber I, $Iooo per year
twelve-months' basis.
Gladys Vedder, Assistant, from  September I, 1921, $1200
per year, twelve-months' basis.
UNIVERSITY EXTENSION
Venona Vanderheide, Stenographer, from July I, 1921, $1400
per year, twelve-months' basis, vice Mary Stewart,
transferred.
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
Dean of Students
Frederick B. Wahr, Assistant to the Dean, from October I,
1.92I, $IOO per month. Held same position during the
months of July, August, and September, 1921.
Rosa D. Willis, Secretary to the Dean, from September I,
1921, $I500 per year, twelve-months' basis.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 192I                        267
Mary Stewart, Assistant to the Dean, in charge of Employment Bureau, from July I, I92I, $1400 per year,
twelve-months' basis.
SCHOOL 0Or EDUCATION
Luther Purdom, half-time Instructor in Educational Psychology, $I000.
Clair K. Searles, half-time Instructor in Secondary Education, $IOOO.
Frieda Kiefer, Research Assistant, $1200.
PROMOTIONS
COLLEGE OF LITERATURF, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
A dlmiistration
Lillian A. Hughes, from Secretary to the Registrar to Assistant Registrar, vice Marion Goodrich, resigned, from
July 1, 192I, $I500 per year, twelve-months' basis.
GENERAL LIBRARY
Ella Hymans, from   Reviser in the Catalogue Department
to Senior Cataloger, $i800 per year, twelve-months'
basis.
Edwin L. Theurer, Assistant at Corridor Desk, vice Mary
L. Steere, resigned, from $Icoo to $IIoo, from July I,
I92I, twelve-months' basis.
Hester Reed, Assistant in Library Extension Service, from
$1200 to $1400 per year, twelve-months' basis, from
July I, I92I.
Emily B. Hendricks, from Assistant Searcher in Order Department to Searcher in Order Department, $1500 per
year, twelve-months' basis, from July I, 1921.
Edward H. Eppens, from Stack Clerk to Assistant Searcher
in Order Department, vice Emily B. Hendricks, promoted, $1400.
Rebecca Wilson, Cataloger, vice Elinor Mullett, resigned, salary increased from $IIoo fo $1400 per year,
twelve-months' basis.
Frances Lyon, from Assistant in Study Hall to Assistant
in Medical Reading Room, salary increased from $IIOO
to $I200 per year, twelve-months' basis, from September
I, 1921.
Joseph E. Dickinson, from Assistant at Corridor Desk to
Assistant in Library Extension, salary increased from
$Iooo to $1200, twelve-months' basis, from September I5,
I92I.




268


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1921


Randall French, from Clerk at Corridor Desk to Stack
Clerk, salary increased from $IIoo to $1200, from July
I, 1921, twelve-months' basis, vice Edward H. Eppens,
promoted.
Elizabeth B. Sherman, from Assistant in Upper Study Hall
to Cataloger, vice Kathryn Wilson, resigned, from October I, 1921, salary increased from $Iooo to $IIOO,
twelve-months' basis.
Elinor Mullett, from Assistant in Catalogue Department to
Junior Cataloger, salary increased from, $IIoo to $I400
per year, twelve-months' basis, from July I, 1921.
CHEM ISTRY
Chemical Laboratory
E.C. Meads, from  Dispensing Assistant to Stock-keeper,
salary increased from $1200 to $I3co per year, twelvemonths' basis, from September I6, 1921.
Gladys G. Walker, Accounting Assistant, salary increased
from $1240 per year to $I400 per year, twelve-months'
basis, from September i6, 1921.
Harold F. Palmer, from Dispensing Assistant to Dispensing
Foreman, salary increased from $Ioo per month to
$I400 per year, twelve-months' basis, from 'September
i6, 1921.
MIDICAI, SCHOOI,
Internal Medicine
Marjorie Lockwood, title changed to read "Stenographer
and Technical Assistant in Dermatology and Syphilology," salary changed to $I700 per year, twelve-months'
basis, from October I, 1921.
SALARY ADJUSTMENT
General Library
Margaret Vinton, Classifier, from October I, 1921, appointment changed to two-thirds time, salary changed accordingly from $I400 to $933.33, twelve-months' basis.
FEIwOWSHIPS
Lawton Fellowship in Astronomy
Hazel M. Losh, stipend of $I80.
Whittier Fellowship
Ruth Harriet Hayes, stipend of $500.
University Fellowships
Dorothy Miles Brown, stipend of $6oo.
Ding Sai Chen, stipend of $400.
Charles Wildman Clarke, stipend of $6co.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1921


269


Harold Matthew Davidson, stipend of $600.
Kenneth Duncan, stipend of $500.
Melville H. Hatch, stipend of $375.
Constance E. Hopkin, stipend of $500.
Albert Hyma, stipend of $700.
Arthur I. Ortenburger, stipend of $6oo.
Paul A. Warren, stipend of $50o.
Frederick Stearns and Company Fellowship in Pharmacy
Elmer J. Traut, stipend of $500.
United States Rubber Plantations, Inc., Fellowship
Wallace E. Cake, stipend of $I200.
State College Fellowships
Virginia Blick, stipend of $4co.
Louis William Hagen, stipend of $425.
Harold Edwin Hawley, stipend of $425.
Peter John Mulder, stipend of $475.
Albert James Phillips, stipend of $450.
Hugh Burnice Smith, stipend of $400.
Everett J. Soop, stipend of $425.
National Aniline and Chemical Company, Inc., Fellowship
Wesley Minnis, stipend of $750.
Clifford C. Buchler, stipend of $750.
Fellowship in Journalism
Donal H. Haines, stipend of $I200.
DuPont Fellowship
John Franklin Ross, stipend of $750.
Emma J. Cole Fellowship
Lee Bonar, stipend of $600.
Buhl Classical Fellowship
Enoch Ernest Peterson, stipend of $6o0.
Bruno Meinecke, stipend of $250.
Carl Braun Fellowship
Marian Herbert Studley, stipend of $500.
SUMMER SESSION
COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND 'I-IE ART'S
Fine Arts
Adelaide A. Adams, Assistant, $IOO.
Landscape Design
Clara S. Stimson, Assistant, $30.
Physical Training
Katherine Kilpatrick, Assistant, $50.




270


SEPTEMBER lIEETING, 192I


Botany
Felix G. Gustafson, Instructor, $I41.67.
Chemistry
Leigh C. Anderson, Assistant, $60.
Francis H. Case, Assistant, $60.
William L. Fink, Assistant, $60.
Jacob K. Johnson, Assistant, $60.
Donald C. Lamb, Assistant. $60.
Wesley Minnis, Assistant, $60.
George R. Strimbeck, Assistant, $60.
Ray R. Wilson, Assistant, $60.
Economiics
Wentworth A. Goldberg, Assistant, $75.
Lucille J. Troy, Assistant, $50.
English
Charles C. Fries, Assistant Professor, $I83.33.
John R. Moore, Instructor, $I41.67.
Geology and Geography
John B. Leighly, Assistant, $75.
Greek
Frank E. Robbins, Assistant Professor, $I83.33.
Latin
Eugene S. McCartney, Instructor, $I4I.67.
Mlathematics
Norman H. Anning, Assistant, $5o.
Mineralogy
Walter F. Hunt, Associate Professor, $337.50
William Marsh Myers, Assistant, $Ioo.
Philosophy and Psychology
Carl R. Brown, Instructor, $283.33.
Political Science
Robert T. Crane, Professor, $265.63.
Joseph R. Hayden, Associate Professor, $210.84.
Jacob S. Pearlstein, Assistant, $50.
Public Speaking
Ernest Ray Baxter, Assistant, $Ioo.
Joseph D. Menchhofer, Assistant, $Ioo.
William P. Sanford, Assistant, $Ioo.
Zoology!
Priscilla E. Butler, Assistant, $60.
Lois Cochran, Assistant, $120.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1921


27 


Melville H. Hatch, Assistant, $I20.
Estelle Jacka, Assistant, $120.
Francis L. McPhail, Assistant, $I20.
COLLEGES Or ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
A dminlistrationt
John C. Parker, Professor, $ICo.
George W. Patterson, Professor, $Ioo.
Louis A. Hopkins, Professor, $IOD.
Drawing
John D. Hauselt, Assistant, $62.50.
Alden L. Hoyt, Assistant, $62.50.
Enginecri;ng iMechanics
Ferdinand N. Menefee, Professor, $637.50.
lMathematics
Elizabeth Carson, Assistant, $75.
Mechanical Engineering
Axel Marin, Assistant, $Ioo.
Walter W. Mott, Assistant, $Ioo.
MEDICAL SCHOOL
Anatomly
Elizabeth C. Crosby, Instructor, $425.
Hewitt Smith, Assistant, $15o.
Bacteriology
William Gabby, Assistant, $I50.
Hugo A. Aach, Assistant, $I50.
Interinal M1edicine
George R. Herrmann, Instructor, $318.75.
Pharmacology
Howard C. Walser, Assistant, $I50.
Clarence Hardy, Assistant, $I50.
Stewart E. Doolittle, Assistant, $I50.
Jonathan B. Stone, Assistant, $I50.
Physiological Chemistry
John C. Ludwig, Assi3tant, $Ioo.
Physiology
Robert S. Buol, Assistant, $10O.
Clinton B. Mills, Assistant, $Ioo.
Harold W. Riggs, Assistant, $IOO.
Weldemar F. Schrieber, Assistant, $sOO.
Jonathan B. Stone, Assistant, $Ioo.




272


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1921


COLLEGE OF PHARMACY
Elmer J. Traut, Assistant, $Ioo.
PUBLIC HEALTH NURSING
Floyd A. Rowe, Professor, $212.50.
Claire Sanders, Special Lecturer, $I5.
Eleanor Hutzel, Special Lecturer, $I5.
William J. V. Deacon, Instructor in Hygiene and Sanitation, $337.50.
Earle R. Hedrick, Professor, Special Lecturer, $75.
LAW SCHOOL
Joseph H. Drake, Professor, $900.
Edgar N. Durfee, Professor, $450.
Grover C. Grismore, Professor, $450.
Herbert F. Goodrich, Professor, $1125.
Edmund C. Dickinson, Professor, $1125.
SCHOOL oP EDUCATION
Blanche Robison, Special Lecturer, $Io.
Edith Seckell, Special Lecturer, $15.
Margaret Wise, Special Lecturer, $I5.
Elizabeth McCrickett, Assistant, $I5.
Ella Wilson, Assistant, $I5.
SMITH-HUGHES FUND
Industrial Education
Ruth N. Weeks, Special Lecturer, $200.
GENERAL EXPENSE
Hans W. Vahlteich, Assistant, $50.
EMBALMING AND SANITARY SCIENCE
Anatomy
Edwin R. Scarboro, Instructor, $200.
BIOLOGICAL STATION
Harley J. Van Cleave, Assistant, without salary.
Carl H. Hubbs, Assistant, without salary.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the title of Roy K.
MicAlpine   was   changed    from   Instructor  in  Analytical
Chemistry to Assistant Professor of Analytical Chemistry
with salary of $2,500 for the University year I92I-I922.
The sum of $Ioo was added to the budget to cover this
promotion.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 192I


273


The President placed before the Board the concurrent
resolution of the Michigan State Legislature of 192r as
follows:WVHIIREAS, The Medical Department of the University
of Michigan is composed of a regular College of Medicine
and a College of Homeopathic Medicine, each of which
maintains a separate hospital, thus entailing much unnecessary expense to the State in duplications of effort; and
WHER;AS, There are now only forty-seven students enrolled in all classes in the Homeopathic College: therefore,
be it
Resolved, by the House of Representatives (the Senate
concurring), That the Board of Regents of the State University be and are hereby requested to take whatever action
may be necessary to effect a consolidation of the two colleges and hospitals, in such manner and as soon, in its judgment as would be wise and expedient, and conducive to the
best interests of the University and the people of the State.
The recommendation of the Committee of the Whole
was concurred in and the concurrent resolution was adopted.
Attention was further directed to the fact that in amending the act under which the University receives the mill
tax, the Legislature had specifically omitted the maintenance of the Homeopathic Medical School as a condition of
the grant of the mill tax although for many years previously
this condition had been a part of the act. On motion of
Regent Clements, the Board referred the questions involved
to the President, Dean Cabot, and Dean Hinsdale with the
request that this committee report to the Board a feasible
method of compliance with the recommendation of the
Legislature.
The President presented the Minutes of the Committee
of Five on Comprehensive Building Program, Meeting of
September I9, I92I, as follows:The Committee met in the President's office at '9:30
A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Clements, Mr. Kahn,
Professor Shepard, and Secretary Smith, with Regent Beal
in conference.
The minutes of the meeting of June 9 were read and
approved. The actions taken at the meeting of June 9 were




274


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1921


in essence reported to and approved by the Regents at their
Meeing of June 22 (see Regents' Proceedings, pages 201 -202).
President Hutchins appeared and outlined to the committee confidential correspondence which he had had with
an alumnus of New York City indicating a purpose on the
part of this alumnus to erect a new Law building and a residence hall or residence halls for law students on condition
that the Regents secure sites therefor on South University
Avenue. On motion of Regent Clements, seconded by Mr.
Smith, the following resolution was adopted:Resolved, That this committee strongly recommends
to the Board of Regents that the Board at its meeting
called for September 30 take proceedings to make land
available for sites for a Law' building and for Lawyers
Club buildings in accordance with correspondence between MTr.          and President PI. B. Hutchins.
The committee adjourned for lunch.
Afternoono Sessionl
Regent Beal and the Secretary reported with respect
to progress in the purchase of land for building sites, that
the committee had had the cooperation of the Michigan
State Tax Commission represented by Messrs. Burtless,
Warner, and Garrett. These officials had given between one
and two days of undivided time to an appraisal of properties, in accordance with instructions from the Sltate Administrative Board. Purchases had been made within these
appraisals, or had been definitely agreed upon, as follows:For the entire block bounded by Washtenaw Avenue,
East University Avenue, College Street, and Church Street,
a total of $282,850.00 of which $75 695.80 had been in cash
and $207,I54.20 had been deferred on mortgages assumed
or by other means. Medical Building site.
For six lots in the block bounded by East University,
South University, Church Street, and College Street, a total
cost of $73,000 of which $26,97I.33 had been in cash and
$46,028.67 had been deferred, One additional lot still remained as a necessity, for which the negotiations had not
been completed and against which a condemnation suit may
be necessary. Engineering Shops and Laboratories site.
In the block bounded by East University Avenue, South
University Avenue, Monroe Street, and Tappan Street, no




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1921                     275
purchases had as yet been made as only recently had the
exact site of the Model High School been determined.
Negotiations now in progress with the aid of the State Tax
Commission.
In the block bounded by South University Avenue, Tappan Street, Monroe Street, and Oakland Avenue, the northeast corner house had been purchased at a cost of $I2,000
of which approximately $4,0oo had been deferred.
The committee had had the assistance of Mr. E. D.
Warner and Mr. Charles Brooks as professional real estate
men at fixed compensations. Report of the committee was
accepted for inclusion in this record to be transmitted to the
Regents.
Professor Shepard discussed at considerable length the
proposed grouping of campus buildings. As it appeared that
the best interests of the Medical School would be served by
a building that would ultimately extend along Washtenaw
Avenue and across Church Street and as it appeared that
the development of the University would undoubtedly be
best served by the ultimate closing of East University between South University Avenue and Washtenaw Avenue
and as it appeared that the interests of the southeastern portion of the city would be as well or 'better served after the
closing of these streets if Forest Avenue were extended to
the north of Washtenaw Avenue and made to connect, via
Fourteenth Street, with Washington Streets and other streets
running west from Fourteenth Street, the committee adopted the following resolution on motion of Regent Clements,
seconded by Mr. Kahn.:Resolved, That this committee recommend to
the Regents that the Common Council of the City
of Ann Arbor be approached on behalf of the University with respect to the closing of certain streets,
including at least Church Street arid East University
Avenue between South University Avenue and
Washtenaw Avenue, and the extension of Forest
Avenue to Fourteenth Street.
On motion of Regent Clements, seconded by Professor
Shepard, the committee approved the general building
scheme presented by Professor Shepard and Mr. Kahn with
the understanding that a map embodying this plan should
be filed as a part of the minutes of this meeting to become in turn a part of the formal records of the Regents.




276          SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1921
The President read in full a letter from Mrs. Katherine
Puncheon Pomeroy as Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Alumne Council with respect to the purposes
and the site of the building to be known as the Michigan
League (see Regents' Proceedings, pages I29 and 224).
Mrs. Henry C. Adams and Mrs. W. D. Henderson appeared and discussed this question with the Committee.
While no definite conclusion was reached as to an acceptable
site,-neither the committee nor the ladies having final
authority-it appeared to be the consensus of opinion that
a site on South University Avenue, in view of prospective
developments, would not be desirable, and that a site on
North University Avenue or in proximity to North University Avenue would be most likely best to serve the purpose.
The Secretary read a letter from 'Superintendent Pardon
under date of September 9, recommending certain separations of portions of contracts for the proposed new buildings. It was informally agreed by the Committee that bids
on contracts for excavations should be separated from the
general contracts, and further that separate bids would
ordinarily be taken on mechanical trades and on mechanical
equipment such as elevators and that in general the same
course would be followed as upon the Library and the
Science Building. It was not believed wise to separate the
foundation contract from the general contracts.
A further letter from Superintendent Pardon, dated
September 9, called attention to the fact that there were
available about 2,oco yards of screened sand near the new
hospital building and that this sand should be sold to a
contractor, or used by the University in the course of building developments.
Professor Shepard was requested to consult with the
sub-committee on the Dental Building, and with Mr. Kahn,
to the end of getting a final 0. K. on the plans for the addition to the Dental building.
The Secretary read a letter from Professor C. G. Parnall dated September 12, expressing surprise that the committee was not planning upon the possibility of adding four
additional stories to the new hospital. The Secretary was
directed to answer this letter in accordance with the facts.
It was agreed that work of roughing-in the plumbing
and steam-fitting, and of wiring the new University Hospital
should cease at once or as soon as the general contractor
ceases work. It was the understanding that the roof would
be completed under contracts already let; that the windows




SEPTEMBER MEETING, I92 


277


of the lower floors would be boarded up and other windows
closed with roofing paper; that all window frames would be
painted; that walls and footings would be protected where
any danger from frost existed; that foundations of the administration section would be laid and necessary rough grading done; and that the building would then be allowed to
stand until further action by the University authorities, as
soon as the gdnleral contractor should complete his work,
which it was expected would be in about three weeks.
Mr. Smith read a letter from Professor Emil Lorch, dated August 12, outlining the desirability of securing a considerable amount of property not at this time actually needed by
the Regents, or at least of preventing the placing of improvments upon this property by its owners which improvements
would increase the cost to the University when the time
should come for the University to acquire it. Mr. Smith
also read his letter of reply under date of September 6 in
which he stated the impossibility of securing or controlling
such property except by purchase, and the practical impossibility of making such extensive purchases at present. The
Committee expressed approval of the attitude of the Secretary.
Professor Shepard and Mr. Smith were authorized to
give to Olmsted Brothers, landscape architects, all the information possible with regard to the expected developments
of the University property holdings, for the guidance of
Olmsted 'Brothers in. advising the Ann Arbor City Park
Commission and others on matters of city planning.
The Secretary presented an inquiry from the Detroit
Edison Company as to prospective demands upon the Edison
Company for electric service as the outcome of the University's building program. It was the view of the Committee
that final information could not be given on this subject
at present.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Committee recommended to the Regents that the sum of $2000 should be
made available to provide office space for Professor Shepard in the basement of University Hall if no other feasible
location were available.
The Committee gave its approval to the signing of contract with Perkins, Fellows, and Hamilton as architects for
the Model High School, in accordance with the action of
the Regents June 22 (see page 203), on the basis of payment
by the University, itself, of salary of the clerk-of-theworks, and on the basis of a five per cent fee to the archi



278


SEPTEMBER MEETING, i92I


tects, the compensation to be limited to the cost of present
construction excluding altogether the cost of any building
for the School of Education which may be built in the
future.
The Secretary raised the question of automobile parking space to meet present requirements. The Committee
took the ground that this question was outside its field, and
therefore took no action.
The Secretary presented a plan for obtaining the greatest amount of salvage from the houses which must be removed from sites secured for new buildings. The Secretary was requested to present as full data as possible at the
Regents' Meeting September 30.
The Committee voted to ask Regent Murfin to act as
a special committee upon the feasibility of securing property
at the corner of State Street and Jefferson Street needed in
the ultimate development of the campus.
The President announced the appointment of committees upon individual buildings as follows, with Professor
Shepard, Supervisor of Plans, a member of each sub-committee:Literary Building,-Dean Effinger, Professor
Karpinski.
Physics Building,-Dean Effinger, Professor
Randall.
Medical  Building,-Dean   Cabot,  Professor
Huber, Professor Novy.
Engineering Building,-Dean Cooley, Professor
Sadler, Professor A. H. White, Professor Airey.
(Dean Cooley desires that ordinarily Professor Sadler act as his personal representative in his place).
Education Building,-Dean Whitney.
Dentistry Building,-Dean Ward.
Hospital, —Dr. Parnall.
The committee adjourned subject to the call of the
President.
The Board proceeded to discuss the report and act upon
the several recommendations.
Regent Beal offered the following resolution:Resolved, That in accordance with the recommendation
in the report of the Committee of Five, dated September 19,
I92T, the Regents take proceedings to make land available
for sites for a Law building, and for Lawyers Club buildings




SEPTEMBER MEETING, I92I


279


in accordance with correspondence between Mr. -----
and President Emeritus H. B. Hutchins, copies of which
correspondence are on file with the Secretary of the Board.
This resolution was adopted by the following vote:Aye, Regent Leland, Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements,
Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent Hanchett; No, Regent
Murfin.
Regent Clements offered the following resolution which
was unanimously adopted.
Resolved That a committee be appointed to discuss with
the Councilmen of the City of Ann Arbor the question of
the closing of certain streets and the opening of others as
may be desirable for the best interests of the University
and of the City.
The President presented sketches (embodying the "map"
for which the report of the Committee of Five provided)
indicating the expected development of the campus in coming years. On motion of Regent Leland, these were approved in so far as they indicated a general locating of the
"humanities" in the south and west portions of the campus
with its expected extensions, and of the "sciences" in the east
and north portions, including the different locations indicated on the plan for the buildings designed for Education,
Physics, Medicine, Engineering Shops and Laboratories,
Dental College, and Literary College, and the Clements
Library, but without anv definite commitment as to Law
buildings, gymnasiums, Women's building, and an Administration building.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the sum of $2,200 was set
aside to provide offices for Professor Shepard, as recommended by the Committee of Five.
Regent Hanchett was excused.
Regent Sawyer moved that the Committee of Five be
empowered to purchase vacant property, move and establish
thereon houses from sites acquired for University building
purposes, and then to sell such houses with the approval of
the Board, all with the intent and purpose of reducing the
ultimate cost of the sites for such University buildings. It
was understood that the funds temporarily required in
carrying out this plan would be provided out of the general
fund of the University. The Board took the action embod



280


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 192I


ied in Regent Sawyer's resolution, by the following vote:Aye, Regent Leland, Regent Beal, Regent Hubbard, Regent.Sawyer, Regent Clements; No, Regent Murfin.
On motion of Regent Clements, Regent Murfin was requested to confer with the owners of the property at the
southwest corner of State and Jefferson Streets, regarding
the possible need of the University for this site.
On motion of Regent Beal, the following resolution was
adopted:Resolved, That approval be given to the letting of contracts for the Clements Library according to bids, subject
to the advice of Regent William L. Clements, and that the
Buildings and Grounds Department of the University be
authorized to bid on such portions of the general contract
as plumbing, heating, wiring, rough mason-work, etc., and
if such bids be satisfactory, the Buildings and Grounds
Department may be authorized to perform the work in
accordance with such bids.
A communication was received from Professor John F.
Shepard, Supervisor of Plans, stating probable necessities
as follows:a-The building of a temporary automobile laboratory
in place of the old S. A. T. C. Building now serving
this purpose on the site of the New Physics building.
b-The placing of temporary partitions in the old Museum
Building to provide class-rooms and the setting up of
rough shelving, for museum purposes, in the house
purchased by the University at No. 539 East University
Avenue. The cost for these items was estimated at
$500.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board approved item
"b" as a charge against the general funds of the University,
and approved item "a" on the express provision that the
expense might be charged against the General Building Fund
with the approval of the State Administrative Board.
The President reported for himself and Regent Murfin
that Dr. John Sundwall had been appointed Director of the
University Department of Hygiene and Public Health, including Physical Education at the salary of $8,500 beginning
with the academic year I92I-I922, and that in accordance
with agreement at the time Mr. Fielding H. Yost was appointed Director of Intercollegiate Athletics, Mr. Yost's




SEPTEMBER MEETING, I921


28I


salary had been automatically increased to $8,500 per annum this latter salary payable from the proceeds of the Outdoor Physical Education Fee.
The President further reported that the following contract between Mr. Elmer D. Mitchell and the Athletic
Association had been assumed by the University in accordance with its terms:THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this Fifth
day of May, A. D., I92I, by and between Elmer D.
Mitchell and the Athletic Association of the University of
Michigan by P. G. Bartelme, Director of Outdoor Athletics
of the University of Michigan, stipulates as follows:I. That the said Elmer D. Mitchell shall direct and
coach class, departmental, fraternity, and other teams of
intramural type and take charge of all general intramural
activities among students of the University of Michigan in
the collegiate years of I92I-I922 and I922-I923.
2. In consideration of the performance of the services
above enumerated, the Athletic Association of the University
of Michigan, or its successor, shall pay the said Elmer D.
Mitchell the sum of three thousand dollars for the collegiate
year of I92I-I922 and the sum of thirty-two hundred dollars
for the collegiate year of I922-I923. Payments on above
salaries shall be made in ten equal installments for each
month of the respective collegiate years, excepting the
months of July and August, said payments becoming due on
the last day of the month. At least sixty days previous to
the close of either collegiate year above referred to, either
party to the above agreement shall serve written notice of a
desire to discontinue this contract.
3. That this contract shall be continued beyond the
collegiate year of I922-1923 at a salary of thirty-two hundred dollars for each succeeding year, unless either party
to the above contract shall serve written notice at least
sixty days previous to the close of any collegiate year, of a
desire to discontinue same.
Approved by the Board in Control of Athletics.
(Signed) ELMER D. MITCHELL
Athletic Association of The
University of Michigan
(By) P. G. BARTELME
Director of Outdoor Athletics
of The University of Michigan.




282


SEPTEMBER MEETING, I92r


It was understood that the salary of Mr. Mitchell for the
year I92I-I922 should be paid in ten monthly installments
of $300 each beginning with September 30, I92I and terminating June 30, I922.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board voted to allow
the following additional for the department of Intramural
Sports: salaries of three assistants in Physical Education in
an amount not in excess of $1,ooo for the three, the sum of
$3,500 as a Current Expense and Equipment Fund; and the
following sums for the minor sports named, swimming,
$750; hockey, $750; soccer, $400; golf, $300. It was a condition of these appropriations to a grand total of $9,700,
including salaries, that they should come out of' the proceeds of the Outdoor Physical Education element of the
annual fee.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board approved the
purchase of office equipment for the Department of Physical
Education to a total of $450, and provided also for a clerk
and stenographer at not to exceed. $I,200 per year, twelvemonths' basis.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board referred to the
President and the Secretary with power the request of Dr.
Sundwall for an appropriation of $I20 to provide quarters
for intramural sports in the Waterman Gymnasium.
On motion of Regent Murfin and upon recommendation
of the Conference of Deans, it was voted to discontinue the
practice of holding a formal convocation at the beginning of
the University year.
The Secretary presented a list of overdrafts which he
recommended should be charged off as of the close of the
University year I920-I92I. On motion of Regent Leland,
this recommendation was referred back to the Secretary for
further information and on motion of Regent Leland, the
Board adopted the following resolution:Resolved, That whenever the Board is asked to
approve a deficit, an auditor's statement with full
details should accompany the request.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board directed that
the increase in salary appearing in the budget for Professor




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1921


283


Edward R. Turner would become effective on the return of
Professor Turner from his leave of absence.
On motion of Regent Murfin. the Board added to the
budget, as adopted, the sum of $2,500 to provide the difference between the salary of Professor Edward R. Turner on
leave and that of Professor Albert B. White engaged for
the period of Professor Turner's absence (see page I55).
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board voted that the
salary of Professor John F. Shepard as Supervisor of Plans
and his traveling expenses as Supervisor should be charged
to the General Building Fund.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board approved the
itemized bill of Cavanaugh and Burke as attorneys of the
Regents in the sum of $951.65.
On motion of Regent Clements the Board laid upon the
table a communication from Professor Louis A. Strauss
relative to the publication of a catalogue of the McMillan
Shakespeare Library as a memorial to the late Professor
Isaac N. Demmon (see pages IIo and I89).
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board added to the
book fund of the University Library the sum of $I,500
especially for the purchase of books needed in the fields to
be developed by Professors James H. Hanford and Oscar J.
Campbell, Jr.
A communication was received from Margaret Cameron,
Secretary of the School of Education, asking whether she
might properly be considered as eligible to the privilege of
purchasing a retiring allowance at the joint cost to herself
and the University under the action of the Regents of
January, I9I9 (see pages 482-487). On motion of Regent
Beal, this question was referred to the Finance Committee
for a report.
On motion of Regent Murfin, there was formally established in the Medical School a Department of Bio-Chemistry
to provide for the vacancy in the teaching staff in medical
chemistry created by the resignation of Professor Victor C.
Vaughan.
On motion of Regent Beal and in accordance with the
recommendation of the faculty of the College of Dental
Surgery, based on Public Act No. 7 of i921, the Regents
voted that both men and women, irrespective of age, shall




284


SEPTEMBER MEETING, I921


be eligible for enrollment in the course for Dental Hygienists provided they are graduates of an accredited high school
(see page I91).
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board laid upon the
table a communication from Mr. Durand W. Springer,
Superintendent of the Homoeopathic Hospital, requesting
provision of additional service in that hospital.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board voted that the
record under which Paul Alfred Shinkman was voted the
degree of Bachelor of Arts (see page 162) should be changed to show that his degree was granted "as of the class of
1920."
A communication was received from Dr. C. G. Parnall,
Medical Director of the University Hospital; requesting an
appropriation of $3,500 to provide a new sterilizer. On
motion of Regent Murfin, this question was referred to the
Finance Committee with power, with the understanding that
Superintendent Pardon should be asked to report to the
Finance Committee with respect to the mechanical conditions
involved.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation of the meeting of Michigan Alumnse held June 28,
Mrs. Caroline Kleinstuck of Kalamazoo, Mich., and Mrs.
Leslie French of Toledo, Ohio, were elected to succeed
themselves, for terms of three years each as members of
the Board of Governors of Alumnae House.
The Board also directed the inclusion in the record of
the fact that at the same meeting the proposed building for
women (see pages I29 and 224) was designated as "The
University of Michigan League."
On motion of Regent Leland, following the recommendation of Dean Lloyd, the Board gave to Frans Thorfinn, who
has been sent to this University for advanced study by the
American-Scandinavian Foundation, the privilege of enrolling in the Graduate School without the payment of the usual
fees. This action was taken in view of the nature of the
work of the American-Scandinavian Foundation and of the
further fact that graduates of this University had in at
least two cases been admitted as fellows in Scandinavian
universities with similar remission of fees.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, I921


285


The Board took no action at this time upon certain
changes suggested by Dean Cooley in the designations of
professorships in the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Medical Director of
the University Hospital was authorized to accept the services.
for the hospital of Mr. Victor E. Graham, engaged in
the undertaking business in the City of Ann Arbor.
On motion of Regent Murfin and upon the recommendation of the faculty of the Law School, degrees were conferred as follows:JURIS DOCTOR
Olive Neville Barton, Ph.B., University of Chicago, I9I4
Glenn Alex Trevor, A.B., Augustana College, I919
BACHELOR Of LAWS
Harry Percival Bennett, A.B. I902
Frederick G. Beattie
Wynn Fred Blaisdell
George Austin Brown, A.B., University of Kansas, 1917
Jose Maria Cajucom, A.B., University of the Philippines
1917
George Pierce Cantrell
Valois Earl Crossley, A. B. 1921
Charles Virgil Hicks
Lyle Donald Holcomb
Heber Scott Hudson
Siegel Wright Judd, B.S., Dartmouth College, 1918
HelmuthB Elrod Maag
Perry Edward Ort
Ronald Robertson
Carl Andrew Sorling
Charles Bryant Stegner
Frank Leonard Walters, A.B. I916
Ross Frederick Wilkins
On motion of Regent Murfin and upon recommendation
of the Medical School faculty, degrees were conferred as
follows:George Edward Gerken
Maurice Gerald Sheldon
Cn motion of Regent Murfin and upon recommendation
of the Dean of the Summer Session, Certificates in Embalming and Sanitary Science were voted to the following: —




286


SEPTEMBER MEETING, I92I


Agnes Fairfax Bristol
Stewart Shepley Kipp
Webster Giles Morton
Donovan Emmett Royal
Frank Wood Staffan
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Regents accepted with
thanks the gift to the musical collection of an old violin by
Miss Nellie S. Loving of Ann Arbor.
The President reported that he had received a communication from Dr. Bryant Walker of Detroit, as executor of
the estate of the late Genevieve S. Hinsdale of that city,
to the effect that under Miss Hinsdale's will the University
would receive one-fourth of her residuary estate.  The
bequest to the University, which Dr. Walker estimated at
somewhat over $20,000, was specified in clause 4 of the will
as follows:To the University of Michigan one share, the income
only of which shall be expended under the direction of the
President or Board of Regents in one or more scholarships
to be named for my father, Edwin C. Hinsdale.
In accordance with the recommendation of Dr. Walker,
the Board agreed to accept the bequest in the form of a land
contract with the Fort Shelby Hotel Company, due August
20, I923, bearing six per cent interest, payable semi-annually.
The Detroit Trust Company was requested to take charge of
the contract and to collect the payments under it as they
should become due and to forward to the University the
proper proceeds. Further, the Board designated the Edwin C. Hinsdale Scholarships as for graduate students in
the Museum of Zoology.
A communication was received from the Dean of Students, urging consideration by the Board of the establishment
and operation by the. University of a cafeteria or restaurant
for University students. On motion of Regent Sawyer, the
Board voted to take no action upon this question for the
present.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Frank E. Robbins was
appointed Assistant to the President to date from October
I with salary at the rate of $4,000 per year, twelve-months'
basis. By this action Dr. Robbins was automatically re



SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1921


287


leased from his appointment as Assistant Professor of
Greek for the present University year.
A communication was received from   Mr. Wilfred B.
Shaw, Secretary of the Alumni Association, requesting that
in view of the fact that THE MICHIGAN, ALUMNUS was this
year being placed on a weekly basis of publication, instead
of on a monthly basis, the University appropriation for
advertising in THE ALUMNUS should be increased. On motion of Regent Murfin, this communication was laid upon
the table until the next meeting of the Board.
The President gave notice to the Regents of the expected election of Dean M. E. Cooley to the presidency of the
Federated American Engineering Societies, to succeed the
Honorable Herbert Hoover, and stated that a proper performance of the duties of this position would require Dean
Cooley's absence from Ann Arbor for perhaps one-fourth
of his time during the year of his presidency. In view of the
honor to the University involved in this election, on motion
of Regent Sawyer, the Board heartily approved its acceptance by Dean Cooley.
Upon motion of Regent Murfin, the sum of $4,750 was
added to the salary budget of the Department of Philosophy
and Psychology and the following appointments were
made:Carl R. Brown, Instructor in Psychology, $2,000 per
year.
Martha Guernsey, Special Teaching and Research Assistant in Psychology, $2,000 per year.
Amos C. Anderson, Assistant in Psychology, $400 per
year.
(The above appointments are for the University year
I92I-I922.)
Lowell J. Carr, Research Assistant in Psychology, $200.
John H. Muyskens, Research Assistant in Psychology,
$I50.
(The two appointments last named above are for the
months of July, August, and September, 1921).
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board approved an
exchange of professorships. between the University of Michigan and the University of the Philippines, with the understanding that Professor Joseph R. Hayden would go from




288


SEPTEMBER MEETING, I92I


the University of Michigan to the University of the Philippines, that Professor Maximo Kalaw, Dean of the College of
Literature and Arts of the University of the Philippines,
would come to the University of Michigan, and that each
university would be responsible for the salary of the professor sent to the other institutipn.  It was understood
further that the Regents of the University of Michigan
would include in the budget of I922-I923 the approximate
sum of $500 to cover the expenses of Professor Hayden for
transportation.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board deferred action
until its next meeting upon the question of providing additional elevator service in the Homoeopathic Hospital, and
instructed the Secretary to secure information upon this
subject and to present it at such meeting.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the salary of Walter T.
Dunn, part-time Instructor in Political Science, was increased from $I,ooo to $I,300 for the year 1921-1922. The
sum of $300 was directed to be transferred from the budget
of the Department of Economics to that of Political Science
to cover the expense involved.
The Board gave informal approval as recommended by
Professor Robert Arthur to the temporary adoption of the
regulation uniform by the Reserve Officers' Training Corps
units of this University.
On motion of Regent Hubbard and upon recommendation of the faculty of the Colleges of Engineering and Architecture, degrees were conferred as follows:BACHELOR OE SCIENCE IN -ENGINEERING
Civil Engineering
Chariton Nicola Charitonides
Maximino Galarza
Max Loewensohn
John William Mangan
BACHIELOR O' SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
Mechanical Engineering
Bernard Lambert Beckwith
Carl William Bieser
Seymour Van Bolton
George Merrill Lewis




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 192I                     289
Malcolm Earl McGowan
William Winn Peattie
Kenneth Gregory Phelps
Louis Frank Rahm
Floyd Schager Sanders
Stiles Curtiss Smith
George Richard Titcomb
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
Electrical Engineering
Willis Brodhead, as of the class of 1917
Harlan H. Buck
James Sherman Gault
Reginald Martin Goodenow
Alfred John Kerolla
Delos Marquis Palmer
Max Gain Robinson, as of the class of 1917
BACHELOR OI SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
Chemical Engineering
Eugene Orr Harbeck
Martin Stanton Henley
Charles Eugene Jordan
Morton Eisenman Katzenstein
Hugh David McLeese
Axel Gunnar Mortenson
Henry Kings Nixon
William Lee Watson
Rudolph Byron Werey
Milton Wruble
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineeriug
Paul Eugene Carrick
BACHELOR oF SCIENCE IN ENGINERING
A eronautical Elngineering
Floyd Henry Kruger
BACHELOR oF0 SCIENCE IN ARCHITECTURE
Architectural Engineering
Merle Nolan Hodges
On motion of Regent Hubbard following the recommendation of the faculty of the School of Education,
teacher's diplomas were voted to the following:



290


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1921


Rachel Mary Welton Anderson
Francis Louis Bailey
Iva Rose Bishop
Francis Willard Brown
Martha May Burss
Ernest Henry Chapelle
Sherman Tracy Cross
Colette Mary Dauner
Marion Agnes Davis
Russell Davis Fraser
Margaret Jane Hoover
Leila Mae Jackson
Michael Lee
Alice Whitman Leonard
Mary Maxine Lichtenauer
Charlotte Christine Lloyd


Virginia Stephanie Look
Marjorie Mendenhall
Winifred Edna Milor
Nellie May Neher
Winifred O'Connor
Richard Martin Page
Abigail Roe Shay Ratliffe
Ethel Adele Rennells
Lula Belle Rodda
Dale Frederick Seider
Dorothy Merton Shields
Melvin Gale Thomas
Gladys Adele Turnbull
Howard Wellington Wickett
Bernice Marguerite Woodbeck


On motion of Regent Leland, the sum of $98o was
transferred from the salary budget of the Department of
Economics to that of the Department of Landscape Design,
and Clara A. Stimson was appointed part-time Assistant for
the University year I92I-I922, at the salary of $8oo.
On motion of Regent Beal. the sum of $300 was transferred from the salary budget of the Department of Economics
to that of the Department of Public Speaking.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board accepted with
thanks the gift to the University Library by Mr. Sidney C.
Eastman of Chicago of two rare books.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Earl B. McKinley was
appointed Instructor in Physiological Chemistry in the
Medical School at the salary of $2,500 for the University
year 1921-1922.
On motion of Regent Beal, and upon recommendation of
the faculty of the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, degrees and certificates were voted as follows:

BACHaELOR oF ARTS
Rachel Mary Welton Ander-      Raymond Robert Barth
son                           George Earl Beardsley
*Earl Hamilton Babcock          William Brand Beaver
Francis Louis Bailey           Iva Rose Bishop
*With Distinction




SEPTEMBER MEETING, I921


291


Albro Edison Blake
Albert Matthew Boyd
*Frederick Alden Bradford
Marie Lydia Braun
*James Ritchison Breakey, Jr.
*Francis Willard Brown
Martha May Burss
Lawrence Collier Butler
*William Swindt Butterfield
*Ernest Henry Chapelle
Richard Carr Chapman
Guy Alfred Clumpner
Lucile L. Cobb
Harold Eells Covert
Sherman Tracy Cross
*Leonene Alfdis Dahlstrom
Peter H. Y. Darpin
Colette Mary Dauner
Marion Agnes Davis
Raymond Mills Dell
George Curtis Dunn
Howard Granger Fishack
Hudson Will Fleischhauer
George Albert Foss
Russell Davis Fraser
Orville Erastus Gates
Lowell Burke Genebach
George Mason Gilmore
Merle Willard Glasgow
Lawrence Sylvester Gray
Bernard  Harry   Green, as
of June 30, 1921
John Frederick Harding
Howell Edward Hays
*Gertrude Henrietta Hellenthal
Warren Wright Herron
Margaret Jane Hoover
Donald Jay Hornberger
Enid Emily Hough
Ta Hsiao
Helim Harold Hulbert
Richard Paul Hummer
*With Distinction
"**With High Distinction


Julius Hobson Isenberg
Hajime Iwanaga
Dewitt Clinton Kies
Milburn John Kusterer
Alice Whitman Leonard
Abe Herman Levine
David William Lewis, as of
the class of I920
Mary Maxine Lichtenauer
Charlotte Christine Lloyd
Virginia Stephanie Look
Alvin Earl Loucks
Mosheng Stone Lu
Thomas Francis McAllister, as of the class
of I918
*Jessie Emma.McCall
William  Graham   McLaughry
**Charles Allan Madison
Charles Brand Maurer
Marjorie Mendenhall
*Winifred Edna Milor
William Wallace Muir
*Nellie May Neher
*Richard Martin Page
Henry Francis Lyster
Parker
Sam Pasko
Jacob Pearlstien
Russell Burton Reader
Leslie John Resseguie
Lula Belle Rodda
Edward Ewan Ruzicka
Harold Gorsline Salter
A*August John Schenden
Dale Frederick Seider
William  T. Simmons
**Frederick Russell Snyder
John Alexander Stewart
Melvin Gale Thomas
**Gladys Adele Turnbull
Harry Vander Kamp




292


SEPTEMBER MEETING, I92I


William Horace Waggoner
**Ross Graham Walker,
as of the Class of I920
Frederick Bernard Waters
Frank Daniel Webb
Everard Bertrand Welton
BACHEL
(in
**George Harold Belote
**Tsing Lien Li
Galen Eugene Miller


Howard Wellington
Wickett
Clarence Huebner Wieder
George Wesley William*Alice Janet Wilson
Abbott Louis Winograd
Bernice Marguerite
Woodbeck
**Joseph Wruble,OR OF SCIENCE
Medicine)
Harold Rich Roehm
Mary Catherine Saxe
Howard Carlton Walser


BACHELOR OE SCIENCE
(in Forestry)
**Lewis Edgar Wehmeyer
BACHELOR Of SCIENCE
**Laurence McKinley Gould      Jennings Bryan Ellis
CIRTIFICATES IN BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
General Business
Raymond Robert Barth           John Frederick Harding
Albert Matthew Boyd            Josephine Violet Lang
Richard Carr Chapman           Mosheng Stone Lu
Raymond Mills Dell             William Wallace Muir
George Albert Foss             John Alexander Stewart
Lowell Burke Genebach          Frank Daniel Webb
Bernard Harry Green
Banking
William Swindt Butterfield     Merle Willard Glasgow
Accounting


Orville Erastus Gates
Warren Wright Herron
Donald Jay Hornberger


Leslie John Resseguie
Frederick Russell Snyder


All of the above actions were by unanimous vote except
where otherwise expressly stated.
The Board adjourned to the date of the next regular
meeting, Friday, October 28, I92I, at 9:30 A. M.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH, Secretary
*With Distinction
**With High Distinction




OCTOBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY O.  MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, OCTOBER 28, 1921 j
The Board met in the Regents' Room      at 9:30 A. M.
Present, the President, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer, Regent Hubbard, Regent Gore, Regent Murfin, and Regent Leland. Absent, Regent Clements and Regent Hanchett, who
later took their seats, and Superintendent Johnson.
On motion of Regent Gore, the minutes of the meeting
of September 30 were approved as submitted to the members in proof with numerous specified changes.
It was the informal understanding of the Regents that
the map embodying in general the expected building development (page 279) should not only be placed on file but that
proper copies should be framed and hung on the walls of
the Regents' Room and the President's office for reference.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Executive Committee
actions were approved and confirmed as recorded in the
Committee's minutes as follows:
October I5, 1921
Present, The President, Regent Beal, and Regent
Sawyer.
It was voted to transfer $I50 from the Economics
salary budget to the Mathematics salary budget, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and to appoint Miss
Frances Florer as Half-Time Assistant with salary at the
rate of $I50 for the University year 1921-1922. Miss Florer
will begin her duties on November I and her salary for the
year will be the pro rata sum of $129.17.
October I8, 1921
Present, Regent Beal and Regent Sawyer.
The Committee added $200 to the budget appropriation
for laboratory assistants in Analytical Chemistry. This
action was made necessary by the large number of dental
students enrolled in the courses in qualitative analysis.




294            OCTOBER MEETING, I92I
Also approval was granted to the transfer of $Ioo from
the salary fund to the equipment fund in the Department of
History, to be used for the purchase of a photograph of an
important papyrus in the collection recently brought to the
University by Professor Kelsey; and to the transfer of the
sum of $540 from the unused remainder of the salary budget
of the Department of Economics to the salary budget of the
Department of Geology and Geography, the sum thus transferred to be divided as follows:-$300 for work in Geology,
to provide one new assistant for the academic year at $150
and a second new assistant at $Ioo, the remaining $50 to be
added to the salary of one of the assistants now appointed
as compensation for additional work; and $240 for two assistants in Geography for the academic year at $I20 each.
The Committee further approved the appointment of
Mrs. L. Jane Merriam as clerk in the office of the Dean of
Students for the period of two months beginning October II,
I92I, at a salary of $75 per month. This $150 is to be taken
from the balance in the amount provided in the budget for
an assistant to the Dean of Students.
October 20, I92I
Present, Regent Beal and Regent Sawyer.
The Committee, after carefully considering the request
of Professor Guy M. Whipple for the allowance of traveling expenses incurred during the past year by a certain
graduate student while collecting data for his thesis, declined to allow same.
Approval was granted to the membership of the University of M\ichigan in the Institute for Research in Tropical America, which has been recently organized by the National Research Council. Director A. G. Ruthven was requested to represent the University in the Institute and the
sum of $I50 was added to the budget of the Museum to
cover the necessary traveling expenses which will be incurred by Director Ruthven's attendance at the meetings
of the Institute.
An appropriation of $25 was made for the purchase of
beaver board and glass trays for the exhibition of the recently acquired papyri. No action was taken by the Committee on the request of Professor Kelsey for a dictaphone
for his correspondence relating to University interests outside of the Latin Department.
The above actions were all approved by the President.




OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


295


October 25, 192I
Present, Regent Beal and Regent Sawyer.
The Committee added $Ioo to the Repairs and Maintenance Budget of the Buildings and Grounds Department,
for the purpose of finishing a room in the house at 1209 E.
Ann Street, occupied by Dr. Donald Morrill.
The President presented a note from the Board of Governors of Betsy Barbour House, through Miss Eleanor Sheldon, Social Director, inviting the Regents to, luncheon at
the House. On motion, this invitation was accepted with
appreciation.
Regent Beal, for the committee on the purchase of land
(page 202), reported upon negotiations for acquiring
lots Nos T, 2, 3, 15, and i6, and the west one rod of lot
No. 14, all in block six south, range thirteen east, (site o'f
the Model High School), now owned by the Presbyterian
Church of Ann Arbor. These lots had been appraised at
$68,1oo by representatives of the Michigan State Tax Commission, and at $73,000 by the Ann Arbor Real Estate
Board's Committee on Appraisals, acting at the request of
the Presbyterian Church. In view of all the circumstances
involved, it was the recommendation of the committee that
a compromise price of $7I,ooo would be proper, and it was
understood that this price would be accepted by the Presbyterian Church. On motion of Regent Beal, the Board
authorized the purchase of the land at the figure recommended.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board approved the
investment of not in excess of $50,000 of trust funds, as
the uninvested amount of such funds might determine, in
Detroit municipal bonds at the most advantageous rates
available.
Regent Leland reported upon the question of purchasing
a new sterilizer at the University Hospital (page 284). He
stated that Superintendent Pardon advised that the present
sterilizer could not with safety do the work required of it,
that a new and adequate sterilizer could be provided and
set up within a cost of $2,000, and that this sterilizer could
in due course be transferred to the new hospital at little
expense. On motion of Regent Leland, the Board approved
the expenditure of not to exceed $2,000 for the purpose.




296


OCTOBER MEETING, 1921


On motion of Regent Leland, the Board approved the
transfer of the remaining land contracts in the Betsy Barbour House account, amounting to, approximately $II,ooo,
to other trust funds, making this amount of cash available
for closing up the construction and equipment bills of the
Betsy Barbour House.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Dean of Students
was requested to take up with the city authorities the question of enforcing proper speed limits upon street cars and
automobiles on State Street, particularly from the Michigan
Union building to the corner of North University Avenue.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board directed the
payment of the bill of $500 of Beaumont, Smith, and Harris,
to apply on legal services in the case of the Selden-Breck
Construction Company vs. the Regents.
Regent Murfin presented an audit made by the Detroit
Trust Company of the accounts of the Michigan Union for
the year ended August 31, 1921. The audit contained the
usual statement of assets and liabilities, showing current
assets of $45,I39.09, fixed assets, less a reserve of $2I,I112.37
for depreciation on furnishings and equipment, of $I,I65,99I.I4, and deferred assets (unexpired insurance premiums,
prepaid taxes, etc.) of $6,771.44, a total of $1,217,901.67.
The current liabilities were $86,138.50; secured loans,
$297,I89.09; building fund donations, $828,516.I6; and net
invested surplus, $6,057.92; total, $I,217,90I.67. In addition there are unpaid subscriptions as of August 31, 192I,
of $479,317.24. This sum does not appear in the balance
sheet as it would reflect only in a "subscribed surplus account."  The profit and loss statement showed a profit for
the year o'f $895.54. Aside from a few minor suggestions
relative to, posting of routine accounts, it was found that
the usual accounting details and clerical duties were being
accomplished in a most commendable and efficient manner.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the audit was received by
~the Board and placed on file.
Regent Leland stated that he had given consideration
to the further data submitted with respect to overdrafts at
the close of the year 1920-I921, and on his motion the
Board approved the charging off of such overdrafts, as
recommended by the Secretary, as follows (page 282):



OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


297


I. Regents' Traveling Expense............... $  256.47
Excess above amount estimated.
2. Fire Insurance..........................  3,933.57
Unequal divisions of insurance premiums year by year in part responsible;
further, insurance placed on new hospital unforseen
3.  Miscellaneous  Printing..................  3,064.47
Due to two causes: increase in. printing
contract prices, and secondly, paper
ordered in excess of amount actually
used in 1920-1921. While this overdraft is only slightly less than the cost
of the paper carried over, it seems wise
to close out the overdraft now as the
higher contract prices will continue into
next year
4. Chinese Students' Conference Reception....   331.98
$50 was originally voted (proceedings
of May, 1920, page 939) and the question of additional cost was left informally with Regent Beal and the Secretary, which committee, after giving the
matter careful attention, authorized the
additional expenditures to provide accommodations similar to those tendered
the Conference at other Universities
and expected here.
5. Non-Resident Lecture Fund............... $  386.61
Lectures authorized in excess of appropriation
6. Salary and Expenses of Superintendent of
Plans..............................,I40.60
These expenditures were authorized by
the Regents in connection with Professor Shepard's appointment but no
sum was set aside
7. Printing Legislative Pamphlet.............  625.21
Work authorized but no formal appropriation made
8. Taxes on California Lands................   251.88
Excess over expected amount placed
in budget




298            OCTOBER MEETING, 1921
9. Telephone Rental.........................  2,499.27
Represents final  settlement  (under
authority given, pages 105-106) of a
rate controversy extending back over
a period of years
Io. Fighting Fire at Camp Davis..............   46.00
Payments to local men fighting fire on
University lands this summer
Ii. Mathematics Current.....................    I46.I9
Largely due to an announcement of
courses in insurance, which announcement was authorized on the basis of the
small estimated cost. After the order
was written, without knowledge of the
business office, the announcement was
enlarged, and many changes made in
the original copy, and the expense thus
ran far beyond the estimate
12. Department of Public Speaking...........   201.24
This represents furniture purchased at
the opening of 1920-1921 for a room
provided by the remodeling of University Hall. This room was a by-product, so to speak, of the alterations, and
no provision had been made for equipping it. The furniture was necessary
I3.  Semitics  Current.........................  7.36
Due to cost of one book in excess of
amount estimated
I4. Huron River Water Tests...............      27.35
These tests were authorized some
years ago, and the account is now
closed. The Civil Engineering Department, in completing the tests, found it
necessary to employ a little more labor
than was anticipated
I5. Anatomy, Anatomical Material............  1,071.59
Necessitated by the amount of anatomical material sent in under the law
i6. University Hospital Current.............. $71,863.39
17. Homoeopathic Hospital Current........... I3,019.52
18. Homoeopathic Hospital Salaries..........  1,526.56




OCTOBER MEETING, I92I                       299
19. Roentgenology Current..................   I40.45
These overdrafts above amounts allowed in budget were covered by receipts in
excess of estimates
20. Nurses' Home Equipment................     6,529.74
An appropriation for the furnishing of
the new Nurses' Home was never
formally reported, though the Purchasing Agent was informed that the purchase had been approved (page 995,
July 1920). The building, very much
needed, was useless without the furniture
21. Appointment Committee Salaries............    8.oo
22. Obstetrics and Gynecology Salaries.........   95 50
These overdrafts in the payroll were
caused by overlapping of appointments
in the several changes in stenographers
and clerks
23. Dictaphone Station.......................  I,457.51
Due largely to additional necessary provision for the President's office as authorized in Proceedings of December,
1920 (page 68).
24. Buildings and Grounds Auto Truck Expense     940.74
This represents cost of operating two
Ford delivery wagons owned by the
University, for the Buildings and
Grounds Department, and the Army
truck loaned by the Reserve Officers'
Training Corps for Buildings and
Grounds' use, above the amounts charged to specific jobs. Wages are included.
There was no specific provision made
in the budget for this expense
25. Buildings and Grounds Equipment..........   1,746.34
This represents purchases of highly
desirable shop equipment which was offered, practically new, to the Superintendent of the Buildings and Grounds
at very low second-hand prices
26. Electric Light and Power.................  I,I85.02
27.  G as......................................  3,292.69




300


OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


28.  W ater...................................  1,739.57
Metered   consumption of these public
services in excess of amounts estimated
in budget
29.  Shop  Supplies............................  553.85
This overdraft is more than counterbalanced by an amount turned back
under "Heating Supplies Account" of
$I,497.99. The overdraft is in a sense
a technical matter of classification
30. Janitor Service Fund..................... $  174.49
3I.  Janitor  Supplies...........................  994.40
Over against these overdrafts are balances turned back under "Janitors
Equipment Account" and "Janitors Salaries Account" of $892.46 and $6,950.78
respectively.  These  overdrafts  are
again thus technical matters of classification
32. Power Plant Maintenance............    8,312.5I
This overdraft represents almost exclusively the expense of replacing
boiler tubes due to the so-called Steere
Farm water, before the water-softening plant was purchased and erected
33. Maintenance of Grounds.............    1,208.17
34. Repairs and Maintenance............  6,080.33
35. Power Plant Salaries..............  1,228.91
These three overdrafts are also largely
matters of classification; as an offset,
balances in accounts known as "Buildings and Grounds Salaries," "Buildings
and Land Improvements," and "Power
Plant Equipment" were turned back to
cover them about three times over
36. Homoeopathic Hospital Special Repairs....    396.45
37. Alterations X-Ray Laboratory.............      9.55
38. Medical Court Addition...................    6II.Ig
39. Health Service Building Repairs..........    355.45
These jobs over-ran the estimates by
the amounts stated
40. Fire Damage Beverly House..........      242.32
4I. Fire Damage Mason Hall..................     228.06
These two overdrafts represent repairs
necessitated  by  fires.  We collected




OCTOBER MEETING, I921


30o


over $800 insurance on the Beverly
House. The excess of the repairs was
due to the re-shingling of the entire
roof which was practically necessary,
although a comparatively small patch
of it was actually burned. In the case
of the Mason Hall fire, which was one
of those of incendiary origin, it was the
opinion of Mr. Sutton that the making
of an actual claim for this small loss
should be postponed. Ultimately, this
amount will presumably be collected
42. Dean of Students' Office...................  650.52
Work authorized at the time Dean
Bursley was appointed, but no appropriation made
43. President's House Repairs................ I2,326.I2
44. New Nurses' Home.......................   I2,743.96
These excesses above the estimated
costs for which appropriations were
made represent in some part additional
work above the original estimates (in
the case of the President's house for
example, it developed that the foundations required under-pinning almost
throughout and in the case   of  the
Nurses Home the basement was finished making accommodations for thirty
additional nurses after the estimates
were made), and secondly, they represent the high cost of forced work during the summer of I920
The total Buildings and Grounds Department overdrafts aside from the two items of the President's House
repairs and the cost of the Nurses' Home amount to, about
$30,000. Balances turned back were over $38,000.
Against this grand total of overdrafts, $I63,719.Io
(including over $86,ooo covered by hospital earnings),
there were credited back to the general fund balances of
over $i6o,ooo.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board directed that
a blanket surety bond be provided covering employees
handling cash at the Homceopathic Hospital, this bond to




302


OCTOBER.i1LEETING, 192I


be in the amount of $5,000, and that a surety bond of
$I,ooo be provided covering the accountant in the Dental
Clinic. Premiums on these bonds are to be paid by the
University (page 257).
Regent Hanchett took his seat.
The President presented the following proposed plan
of procedure in the preparation of the annual budget, as
requested by the Board at the meeting of May 27 (page
I87) 
The principles which underlie the entire process involved in the preparation of the budget are two in number.
I. The Board of Regents is the final authority both in
determining the main outlines of the budget and in making official commitments in regard to every detail. Consequently the submission of recommendations by heads of
departments, deans of schools or colleges, or by the President in no way creates obligations. The inference, frequently drawn, that a recommendation is a final assurance
of favorable action, or the building of false hopes upon
possibilities suggested in the various steps necessary in the
making of a budget is entirely inconsistent with this
principle and is to be discouraged in every possible way.
In exercising its authority in this matter, the Board of
Regents will function through two committees known as
the Finance (or Budget) Committee and the Committee on
Salaries. It is the duty of the Finance Committee to see
that the budget is prepared and submitted for final approval
by the full Board. It is the duty of the Salaries Committee
to give its attention to the salary scale as a whole and its
specific application to all members of the entire faculty
and staff. Its recommendations are to be incorporated in
the budget before the budget goes to the Finance Committee
for final consideration and recommendation.
2. The Board of Regents at all times will endeavor to
avail itself of the intimate and detailed knowledge of the
various officers of the University. It is to be presumed
that in general this information, at first, is available in the
actual recommendations of the various administrative officers. In case it becomes necessary to make reductions in
salaries or in other items the Regents, functioning through
the committees named, will return the recommendations to
the officers concerned with a definite announcement of the
total amount which must be eliminated and with the request




OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


303


that new recommendations within the prescribed limitation
be submitted. Under this principle the Board of Regents
aims to have at its disposal the best information and judgment of the educational officers both in the original recommendations and in the final proposals. The Board will aim
to allow ample time for each of these steps. It is to be
hoped that the method now outlined will make it unnecessary, as a general rule, to return recommendations for
reformulation.
In accordance with these two principles, it is suggested
that the budget be prepared in the following manner:I. The President of the University on December I of
each year shall communicate with each dean, director,
superintendent, and officer involved in the preparation of the
budget requesting a general statement in regard to the main
features of his unit. This request shall not call for the
actual recommendations of the budget. The aim will be to
discover (a) what economies can be effected by discontinuance of existing activities and (b) what expansions seem
absolutely essential in view of new facts and developments.
This information will be utilized in. connection with step 3
described below and should be presented to the Regents for
the December meeting.
2. The Secretary of the University, for the December
meeting of the Board, shall present a statement of the estimated income of the University for the succeeding fiscal
year, pointing out any pertinent aspects of the financial
situation of the University which should be considered in
determining the limits of the new budget.
3. In the light of this information, the Board of
Regents at its December meeting upon the recommendation
of the Finance Committee, shall determine officially the income of the University and the grand total of the new
budget. It shall also determine tentatively the maximum
allotments which shall be available for each school or college or similar unit of the University and authorize the
President to proceed with the other officers in the preparation of the budget in accordance with the main outlines thus
established.
4. The first draft of the new budget shall be presented
at the January meeting of the Board. The Salaries Committee shall meet prior to the meeting of the Board and give
ample time to the consideration of the entire salary situation. The Finance Committee shall be prepared at the January meeting to make its recommendations in the light of




304


OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


the decisions of the Salaries Committee and to point out
both in principle and in detail what subjects deserve further
consideration and investigation.
5. The recommendations of the various units, whereever it is necessary, shall be returned for revision in accordance with decisions made by the Regents at the January
meeting.
6. The final budget for actual adoption shall be presented by the Finance Committee at the February meeting
of the Board.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board directed that
the budget for I922-I923 should be prepared and adopted
in accordance with the procedure outlined in the President's
communication.
The President orally gave to the Board a statement of
the preliminary count and estimate of students in the University as compared with October of I920.
The President stated that the Carnegie Foundation for
the Advancement of Teaching had reported its inability to
provide a retiring allowance for Professor Nelville S. Hoff;
this refusal was under the general principle that the Foundation cannot at present see its way clear to accept retiring
members of dental faculties. The foundation stated, however, that it was now making an investigation of dental
education and dental schools and colleges in general.
Regent Clements took his seat.
The President read a letter from   Professor John C.
Parker on the general subject of full-time service in the
College of Engineering, and with particular reference tol his
own plans as determined by the Board's attitude upon this
subject (page 207).
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the President was asked
to nominate at an early meeting of the Board candidates for
two administrative positions in the University.
The Board adjourned for lunch.




OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


305


AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at I:30 P. M.
Present, the entire Board with the exception of Superintendent Johnson.
The Secretary reported that the inspection department of
the company carrying the University's elevator insurance
had stated that the elevator in the Homceopathic Hospital
was entirely safe for operation provided it was in charge
of an operator at all times when in use. On motion of
Regent Clements, the Board accepted the report and directed
that this elevator should under no condition be used except
when in charge of a regularly assigned operator.
On motion of Regent Murfin, Charles William Creaser,
A.B., was appointed to an Edwin C. Hinsdale Scholarship
in the Museum of Zoology, with stipend of $500 for the
University year I92I-I922.
The President filed a letter from Dr. Bryant Walker
stating that collections on the land contract with the Fort
Shelby Hotel Company, forming a part of the Hinsdale
bequest, would be made directly instead of through the
Detroit Trust Company as originally expected (page 286).
On motion of Regent Murfin, Lyman Jay Ballard, B.S.
E., M.S.E., was appointed to the United States Radiator
Corporation fellowship for the year I92I-I922, with stipend
of $500.
The Secretary reported with respect to the question of
audit and inspection of the University's accounts (pages
II2-II3) that such an audit, complete and in detail, would
doubtless cost a very considerable sum, and that he had
under these circumstances, through the generosity and cooperation of Mr. Roy Chapin, President of the Hudson
Motor Car Company, and Mr. E. E. Staub, Accounting
Manager of that company, been able to secure a general
examination or survey of the accounting methods of the
University and a report thereon by Mr. Staub, who previously to his connection with the Hudson Motor Car Company had been the head of the Chicago office of Lybrand,
Ross Bros. and Montgomery. Mr. Staub's report was
communicated to the Regents in full.  While it made
several suggestions, its conclusion was summarized by Mf.




306


OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


Staub as follows: "The University need fear no investigation of its accounting records and business management; on
the contrary, it is to be congratulated onf the completeness
and practicableness of its accounting records, and the effici -
ency of the business management."
On motion of Regent Murfin, the report was received
and placed on file.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That the Finance Committee of this Board
be requested hereafter to examine personally each quarter
the securities held by the University,
Resolved further, That hereafter access to the safety
deposit box in which the University's securities are kept
shall be restricted to the Treasurer of the University in company with a member of the Finance Committee of the Board,
and
Resolved further, That the University's securities in
safety deposit vaults be insured against theft in. the amount
of unregistered negotiable instruments.
The Secretary reported that the University had received,
as a permanent loan from   the Michigan State Highway
Department a five-ton truck which was being used by the
Buildings and Grounds Department with great economy
in comparison with methods which previously had been possible. While the truck itself was available under the abovementioned terms, a bill had been received for the box and
hoist in the amount of $675 and for gasoline and oil in the
amount of $5.50. On motion of Regent Clements, this
sum of $680.50 was appropriated for the purpose indicated.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the sum of $945 was
added to the appropriation of $2200 (page 279) for offices
for Professor Shepard. The purpose of this additional
appropriation was to provide additional storage space in
connection with these quarters for the use of the general
business offices of the University.
The Secretary filed copies of the agreements made with
Smith, Hinchman, and Grylls as architects of the Engineering Shops and Laboratories, with Perkins, Fellows, and
Hamilton as architects of the Model High School, and with
Albert Kahn as architect of the Physics Building, Medical




OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


307


Building, and General Literary College Building (page 203).
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board approved the
establishment during the University year I92I-I922 of a
dental clinic for school children of Ypsilanti as requested
by the Board of Education of that city, on the same termr
applying to the dental clinic for school children of Ann
Arbor; namely, $200 compensation for Dr. Raymond F.
Cannon as demonstrator in charge and not to exceed $25
additional to cover materials. The salary of the demonstrator and the cost of the materials will be reimbursed to
the University by the Ypsilanti Board of Education.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board placed in the
budget for 192I-I922 the sum of $500 as the institutional
membership dues of the University in the American Council
on Education for the year ending June 30, 1922.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board referred to the
Secretary with power an emergency request for a water
still for the Pathological Laboratory, or for other means of
providing distilled water for the use of this laboratory.
On motion of Regent Clements, Major John A. Brooks,
Jr., and Captain Forrest E. Collins were appointed Assistant Professors of Military Science and Tactics for the
year I92I-I922, with compensation from the University of
$300 each for the year.
On motion of Regent Clements, the sum of $950 was
added to the budget of the Department of Surveying.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Percival Chelston Lowery,
D.D.S., was appointed Non-Resident Lecturer in Prosthetic
Dentistry in the College of Dental Surgery for the University year I92I-I922, with salary of $I,ooo. This sum is to
be deducted from the salary originally provided for Professor Nelville S. Hoff.
A request was received from Dean Lloyd for the advancement of the salary of Miss Ruth Rouse to $I,8oo, from
$I,600 as provided in the budget, and for the change in her
title to that of "Recorder and Secretary to the Dean." On
motion of Regent Leland, the Board declined to make these
changes in the budget for this year.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board appointed
Mabel 0. Strong as Half-time Clerk in the Graduate School




308


OCTOBER MEETING, 192I


with compensation at the rate of $50 per month from the
date of assuming the duties of the position.
A  communication was received from       Dean Ward with
respect to certain readjustments in dental faculty positions
and salaries. The questions involved were referred with
power to the President, Regent Sawyer, and Dean Ward.
The Secretary reported the following resignations, appointments, and other changes in the University staff as approved and authorized by the President under the legislation of the Board (page 23):Resignations and Declinations
Edna Alber, Secretary to the Department of Surgery,
Medical School, resignation to take effect November I
Lois Fischer, Clerk in the Secretary's Office, Colleges
of Engineering and Architecture, resigned September 15
Harold Closz, Instructor in the Homoeopathic Medical
School, resigned September 30
J. A. William Johnson, Instructor in the Homoeopathic
Medical School, resigned September 30
Esther Peers, Assistant in Main Reading Room, General
Library, resigned August 31
Harley B. Sherman, Sunday and Holiday Assistant in
the Museum of Zoology, resigned August 3I
Leona Trevor, Stenographer in Dean's office, School of
Education, resigned September I
Leonard Wagener, Pharmacist in University Health
Service, resigned September 30
Winafred Perry, nurse in University Health Service,
resigned September 30
Appointments
(All for the academic year 1921-1922, unless otherwise
stated.)
COLLEGE OP LITERATPURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Astronomy
Harold R. Carpenter, Assistant, $200
Morris K. Jessup, Assistant, $200
Paul A. Smith, Assistant, $200
Botany
Lois S. Ehlers, Herbarium Assistant, $500
Marion L. Brown, Herbarium Assistant, $400




OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


309


Botanical Garden
Dennis Court, Fireman, from October Io, $I08o per year,
twelve-months' basis
Economics
William A. Kohler, Instructor, $I500
Benjamin T. Smith, Half-time Instructor, $750
Edward A. Gee, Laboratory Assistant, $400
Florence Thompson, Assistant, $250
Katharine Montgomery, Assistant, $250
Floyd E. Young, Assistant, $250
Donald Scott, Assistant, $250
Frederick D. Carroll, Assistant, $250
Alfred C. Farrell, Assistant, $250
Egbert R. Post, Assistant, $250
Miller Williams, Assistant, $250
Harold L. Packer, Assistant, $250
Robert W. Masters, Assistant, $250
Berneth S. Thomas, Assistant, $250
Lemire T. Rice, Assistant, $250
William F. Poorman, Assistant, $250
Wentworth A. Golberg, Assistant, $250
Fine Arts
Adelaide A. Adams, Teaching Assistant, $750
Forestry
Gilbert I. Stewart, Assistant, $200
Arthur A. Brown, Assistant, $200
Greek
James P. Harland,, Instructor, vice Frank E. Robbins,
resigned, $2200
History
Harold H. Warner, Assistant, $350
Charles T. Andrews, Assistant, $350
Laylin K. James, Assistant, $350
Ben C. Fairman, Assistant, $350
Velda J. Bogert, Assistant, $350
Rosser H. Taylor, Assistant, $500
Nelson V. Russell, Assistant, $600
Mineralogy
Morrow C. Miller, Assistant, $300
George S. Buchanan, Assistant, $300
Fred B. Kniffen, Assistant, $300




31o


OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


Philosophy and Psychology
John D. Finlayson, Instructor in Psychology, $1700
Physics
Lucile M. Ruttan, Half-time Stenographer, $452
Marion Rood, Assistant, $200, from October I
Walter A. Schneider, Assistant, $300
Gerald W. Fox, Assistant, from October I, $300
Political Science
Byron F. Field, Assistant, $5co
Charles C. Hamill, Jr., Assistant, $400
Laverne Burchfield, Assistant, $400
Robert W. Kneebone, Assistant, $400
Jacob S. Pearlstein, Assistant, for the second semester,
$400 per year or $200 for the period
Ernest B. Schultz, Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of
Government, $900
Robert M. Kerr, Assistant, for the first semester, $400
per year or $200 for the period
Public Speaking
Preston H. Scott, Undergraduate Assistant, $200
Richard Forsythe, Assistant, $150
Jack P. Holden, Undergraduate Assistant, $I50
Rhetoric
Neil E. Cook, Instructor, $I500
Levette J. Davidson, Assistant, $400
Romance Languages
Homer A. Des Marais, Instructor, $2400
Benjamin F. Luker, Instructor, $2400
Carlos G. Prada, Half-time Instructor, $8oo
COLLEGES OE ENGINIERING AND ARCHITECTURE
A dministration
Ethel Braybrooke, Clerk in the office of the Secretary,
vice Lois Fischer, resigned, from October I, $Iooo per year,
twelve-months' basis
Julian Fellows, Student Assistant, $250
Henry R. Schemm, Student Assistant, $250
Elizabeth Carson, Student Assistant, $250




OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


3II


Chemical Engineering
Harold E. Gladhill, Teaching Assistant, $750
Robert B. Ball, Student Assistant, $250.
Russell F. Kingston, Student Assistant, $250
Arthur K. Laukel, Student Assistant, $300
Herman S. Sherman, Student Assistant, $250
George R. Strimbeck, Student Assistant, $250.
Harold den Bleyker Van Deman, Student Assistant, $250
Elmer S. Pettyjohn, Student Assistant, $250
Civil Engineering
Horace R. Every, Teaching Assistant, $600
Stuart M. Weaver, Teaching Assistant, $600
Randle B. Alexander, Student Assistant, $200
William E. Bandemer, Student Assistant, $200
Harlan P. Dodge, Student Assistant, $200
Roy E. Everett, Student Assistant, $200
Louis C. Kingscott, Student Assistant, $200
George W. McCordie, Student Assistant, $200
Fernand W. Miller, Student Assistant, $200
George E. Shimel, Student Assistant, $200
Elizabeth Trachsel, Half-time Stenographer in Sanitary
Engineering, $600
Electrical Engineering
Theodore R. Halman, Teaching Assistant, $600
John H. Pilkington, Teaching Assistant, $600
Engineering Shops
Clark B. Potter, Student Assistant, $300
Clarence J. Swigert, Student Assistant, $300
Marine and Aeronautical Engineering
Edward A. Stalker, Instructor in Aeronautical Engineering, from October I, $I8oo
Tully A. Gross, Student Assistant, $250
Elliott G. Reid, Student Assistant, $250
Mf echanical Engineering
Stanley C. Stacy, Instructor, $600o
Bernard L. Beckwith, Teaching Assistant, $750
Harold P. McNaughton, Teaching Assistant, $750
Clyde R. Paton, Teaching Assistant, $750
Axel Marin, Teaching Assistant, $500
Paul C. Ackerman, Student Assistant, $250




312             OCTOBER      MEETING, I92I
Alfred B. Curtis, Student Assistant, $250
Casper P. Haller, Student Assistant, $250
Donald Hauselt, Student Assistant, $250
Herman C. Kappler, Student Assistant, $250
Adolph K. Krause, Student Assistant, $250
Donald L. Perkins, Student Assistant, $250
Cecil H. Ruby, Student Assistant, $250
Frances R. Scherer, Student Assistant, $250
MEDICAT SCHOOL
Anatomy
J. Duane Miller, Assistant, $Iooo
Melville A. Goldsmith, Assistant, $Iooo
Vernon L. Hart, Assistant, $I000
Hygiene and Bacteriology
John M. Barnes, Assistant in Bacteriology, from October I to February I, $75 per month or $300 for the period
William H. Gabby, Assistant in Bacteriology, $Iooo
Harold R. Roehm, Assistant in Bacteriology, $00ooo
Robert S. Breakey, Assistant in Hygiene and in Pasteur
Institute, $Iooo per year, twelve-months' basis
Internal Medicine
Helen Dodge, Stenographer, from  September I, $Io80
per year, twelve-months' basis
Pharmacology
Ruth P. Stone, Assistant, $6oo
Physiological Chemistry
Malcolm H. Soule, Assistant, $Iooo
Robert R. Dieterle, Assistant, from October I to February I, 1922, $75 per month or $300 for the period.
Physiology
George H. Belote, Assistant, $400
William M. Brace, Assistant, $400
Stewart E. Doolittle, Assistant, $400
Orla H. Gillette, Assistant, $400
James W. Townsend, Assistant, $400
James A. Rolls, Assistant, $400
CHEMISTRY
A dininistration
John J. Burby, Lecture Assistant, $750




OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


313


Chemical Laboratory
Clarence 0. Duncan, Dispensing Assistant, $200
Hudson T. Morton, Jr., Dispensing Assistant, $I00
Allen R. Fox, Dispensing Assistant, $200
Arthur D. Oetjen, Dispensing Assistant, $00oo
William H. Older, Dispensing Assistant, $300
Arthur J. Good, Dispensing Assistant, $250
Herbert H. Twining, Dispensing Assistant, $10o
Harold F. Palmer, Assistant for Evening Dispensing,
$200
Elwin W. Esslinger, full-time Dispensing Assistant,
from October I, $Ico per month.
General and Physical Chemistry
Donald C. Lamb, Laboratory Assistant, $I50
John S. France, Assistant, $250
Alexander C. Burr, Assistant, $250
Lyle E. Squire, Laboratory Assistant, $00oo
John Barczewski, Laboratory Assistant, $I00oo
Ralph F. Cohn, Laboratory Assistant, $I00oo
John E. Dion, Laboratory Assistant, $o00
Arnold E. Pratt, Laboratory Assistant, $I50
DeWitt Bell, Laboratory Assistant, $200
Rathbun R. Higgins, Laboratory Assistant, $Ioo
Ben Heath, Laboratory Assistant, $50
Leigh C. Anderson, Teaching Assistant, $750
Paul V. Clark, Teaching Assistant, $750
James L. Kassner, Teaching Assistant, $750
William L. Fink, Teaching Assistant, $750
Levin M. Litzenberger, Teaching Assistant, $750
Harold J. Osterhof, Teaching Assistant, $750
Lawrence A. Phillipp, Teaching Assistant, $750
Maurice Van Loo, Teaching Assistant, $750
Gerrit Van Zyl, Teaching Assistant, $750
Harold G. Whitcomb, Teaching Assistant, $750
Harvey M. Trimble, Acting Instructor, $I200
Lee 0. Case, Acting Instructor, $00ooo
Analytical Chemistry
Robert R. Tanner, Teaching Assistant, $750
Organic Chemistry
Glenn C. Forrester, Teaching Assistant, $750
Frederick F. Blicke, Instructor, $2000
Donald L. Tabern, Research Assistant, $750
Leonard F. Meilander, Laboratory Assistant, $250
Glenn E. Cantwell, Laboratory Assistant, $250




3t4


OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


LAW SCHOOL
Bertha C. Herbst, Second Assistant in Library, $1400
per year, twelve-months' basis
COLLIEGE Of PHARMACY
James F. Hunter, Assistant, $200
G. Carl Tasker, Assistant, $200
Hans W. Vahlteich, Assistant for first semester, $3oo
per year or $I50 'for the period
HOMCEOPATHIC MEDICAL SCHOOL
Howard H. Harpst, Assistant, for the month of September at the rate of $500 per year, from October I at the
rate of $750 per year
Ralph W. Ridge, Assistant, $Iooo, from October I
Alfred G. Nast, Assistant, from September I, $I50o per
year, twelve-months' basis
COLLEGE oF DENTAL SURGERY
Frank R. Woods, Lecturer, for first semester, $1300 per
year or $650 for the period
Mrs. Henry Hicks, Half-time Clerk in the Dispensing
Stand, $315
William M. Brown, Assistant in Pathological and
Hygiene Laboratories, $315
Edward C. Meyer, Student Assistant, $200
UNIVERSITY HEALTH SERVICE
Harvey A. Whitney, Pharmacist, vice Leonard R. Wagener, resigned, from October I, $360 per year, twelvemonths' basis
Kathleen M. Brier, Nurse, vice Winafred Perry,
resigned, from October I, $1200 per year, twelve-months'
basis
GENERAL LIBRARY
Constance Winchell, Assistant in Main Reading Room,
vice Esther Peers, resigned, from October i, $600o per year,
twelve-months' basis
MUSEUM 0O ZOOLOGY
Doreen Potter, Sunday and Holiday Assistant, vice
Harley B. Sherman, resigned, from September I, $I per day
MILITARY SCIENCE AND TACTICS
Claud Russell, Assistant, $375
Benjamin F. Hausman, Assistant, $375




OCTOBER MEETING, 1921


315


SCHOOL OF EDUCATION
Elsie Whipple, Assistant Secretary and Recorder, and
Clerk in Industrial Education, from September 20, $125
per month
Bessie Hochrein, Stenographer in Dean's Office, vice
Leona Trevor, resigned, from September 6, $I200 per year,
twelve-months' basis
Pronmotions
Ruth E. Wood, Assistant in Rhetoric, salary increased
from $250 to $500 per year
Horace French, Assistant in Homoeopathic Medical
School, salary increased from $500 to $750 per year, from
October I
Wildur W. Williams, Assistant in Homoeopathic Medical School, salary increased from $900 to $Iooo per year,
from October I
James K. Durling, Instructor in Homceopathic Medical
School, salary increased from $I200 to $I500 per year, from
October I
Gurillermo Herrera, from Half-time Instructor in
Romance Languages at $800 to Intsructor at $I600 per year.
FELLOWS HIPS
Detroit Edison Company
Norman F. Carver, Detroit Edison Company Fellowship
in Highway Engineering, $250 per year, plus $50 for expenses
Graduate Scholarship
Sheikh M. Munir, stipend of $400
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to
alter the salary as fixed in the budget of Dr. Scott C. Runnels of the Homoeopathic Medical faculty.
On motion of Regent Murfin and upon recommendation
of the faculty of the Homoeopathic Medical School, the
degree of Doctor of Medicine was conferred upon Harold
Edward Wisner.
The President filed a communication reporting the progress of the committee upon the future of the Homoeopathic
Medical School (page 273).
In view of circumstances involved, on motion of Regent
Murfin, the Board voted to consolidate the monthly meetings of November and December, I92I, into a single meeting
to be held Friday, December 9.




3i6


OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board added the
sum of $II,200 to the publication fund of the Graduate
School.
A communication was received from Professor Herbert
R. Cross, requesting an allowance of $I,500 for labor and
equipment to make available the northwest main floor room
of Alumni Memorial Hall for classroom purposes. On
motion of Regent Clements, this request was granted, subject to the approval of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, within the sum of $I,500 and with the express understanding that these quarters, if provided, should be available for recitation purposes for classes in Art, only.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board approved a
requested dedication as a state game refuge of so much of
the land in the Bogardus Tract as might under the law be so
dedicated.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board referred to a
committee consisting  of Mr. Albert Kahn, Professor
Tealdi, and Regent Beal, the question of landscape design
for the new University Hospital grounds.
The Board received a request from Professor Newburgh
and Dean Cabot for an allowance of $300 to cover labor
and material to provide space for setting up an electrocardiographic apparatus which is part of the equipment
of the Department of Internal Medicine; and for the establishment of charges against patients for whose benefit this
apparatus is used under the following schedule:Class A, $2.00
Class B, $5.00
Class C, $Io.oo
Class D, $Io.oo to $25.00
It was stated that should the request be granted, the
electrocardiograph would be used for making diagnoses and
controlling digitalis and quinidin treatment, for teaching,
both undergraduate and graduate, and for research.
Charges against patients would be made for examinations
for the first of these three purposes only. On motion of
Regent Clements, the Board appropriated the sum of $300
for the purpose and in general approved the plan outlined.




OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


3r7


Regent Leland brought to the Board's attention the request of Margaret Cameron (page   283) that she   be
eligible to the privilege of purchasing a retiring allowance
at joint cost to herself and the University. After discussion, on motion of Regent Murfin, this request was laid upon
the table pending a report by the Secretary upon the general
question of retiring- allowances for others than members
of the teaching staff.
On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board declined to
allow Walter M. Simpson and Hewitt Smith, Half-time
Assistants in Anatomy, to register in the Medical School for
the present University year without payment of fees.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board authorized
registration as residents of Michigan for the present University year of Enoch W. and Ralph E. Hall, members of
the Medical class of 1923.
Regent Leland was excused.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board extended an
invitation to. the Geological Society of America and other
associated societies to hold their meetings of I922 at this
University, and appropriated the sum of $300 to cover expenses of entertainment should the invitation be accepted.
A communication was received   from  Acting  Dean
Whitney asking the Board whether he should comply with
the request of the Board of Education of Flint, Michigan,
to make a survey of the school system of Flint with respect
to its general efficiency. On motion of Regent Gore, the
Board expressed the opinion that Professor Whitney should
accept this commission.
A request was received from Professor John L. Brumm
for the continuance of the University of Michigan Press
Bulletin as a bi-weekly issue with special service to the
Associated Press, and with other special services as circumstances may determine at a cost of $600 for expenses and
$400 for editorial compensation. The Secretary stated that
there was in the budget the approximate sum of $400 for
this purpose. On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board
added $200 to the sum now in the budget, making a total of
$600 to cover expenses for this purpose. The matter of
editorial compensation was laid upon the table until the
succeeding meeting.




3I8


OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


On motion of Regent Murfin, the Secretary was directed
to furnish the Board with a list of the extra compensations
paid by the University to members of the faculty for services
outside their regular teaching and Summer Session teaching,
with accompanying statements in each case of the number
of hours given to their regular teaching duties.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board authorized the
payment to THE MICHIGAN ALUMNUS of $I,00        during the
year I92I-I922 for advertising (page 287). This action was
taken without precedent for succeeding years. It added
$400 to the budget of I92I-I922. The vote on this resolution was as follows:-  Aye, Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer,
Regent Hubbard, Regent Clements, Regent Hanchett, and
Regent Gore; No, Regent Murfin.
On motion of Regent Murfin and upon recommendation
of the proper academic authorities of the University, degrees and certificates were voted as follows:DOCTOR OF MEDICINE
Robert John McCandliss
TEACHER'S CE'RTIcICATE
Jeannette Beis
Margaret Carroh Cook
Rose Victoria Gutterman
David Lemunyon Haught
Max Benjamin Jaslow
Charles Veron McAlpine
Alice Janet Wilson
BACHELOR OF LAWS
Howard Albert Donnelly, A.B. 1918
John Holly Rapp, A.B. University of Illinois, I915
Hubert Leroy Thornton, A.B. Albion College, Igog
M.ASTER O0 ARTS
Adelaide Alice Adams, A.B.
James Pickwell Adams, A.B.
Harold Hudson Britton, A.B.
Charles Seraphin Carry, B.L., Besancon, France
Homer Virgil Cherrington, A.B., Ohio University,
B.S.(Ed.), ibid.
Lionel George Crocker, A.B.
May Belle Derragon, A.B.




OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


319


Helen Sayre Dykeman, A.B.
Milton Holden Fehling, A.B.
Aloysius Joseph Gaiss, Ph.B., Alfred University
Harley Lawrence Gibb, A.B., Michigan State Normal
College
Harry Wilbur Hann, A.B., Indiana University
David Lemunyon Haught, A.B., Salem College
Thomas Carl Hutton, A.B., Richmond College
Lois Ruth Inglis, A.B.
Oakley Calvin Johnson, A.B.
Sotokichi Katsuizumi, A.B.
Alice Elizabeth Keener, A.B., Lake Forest College
James Graham Lake, A.B.
Harriet Grace Lautenschlager, A.B., Huntington College
Roy S. Lautenschlager, A.B., Huntington College
Almira F. Lovell, A.B.
Arthur Bernard Moehlman, A.B.
John Franklin Moore, A.B., Indiana University
Elmer Llewellyn Overholt, B. S., Michigan Agricultural College
Paul C. Packer, A.B., University of -Iowa
Mary Martha Purdy, A.B.
Paul Tory Rankin, A.B., Michigan State Normal College
Paul Rood, A.B., Albion College
Lawrence Howard Seltzer, A.B.
Oscar Jackson Sheaffer, A.B., Washington and Jefferson College
Houghton Wells Taylor, A.B.
John Albert Tillema, A.B., Hope College
Kepler Van Evera, A.B., Coe College
John Van Oosten, A.B.
Mary Catharine Weadock, A.B.
Mary Ella Wilson, A.B., Michigan State Normal College
Kai Hung Wu, A.B.
Alice Marian Wyman, A.B.
MASTER 0s SCIENCI
Edward Jacob Bird, A.B.
Joseph Walter Britton, A.B.
Charles William Creaser, A.B.
Marion Llewellynn Drake, D.D.S.
Marshall Adelbert Goff, B.S.
PHARMACEUTICAL CHcMIST
John James Hugan
Dale Horton Moats




320


OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN PHARMACY)
Dale Horton Moats
Isao Nishimura, Ph.C. I92I
Harold Eugene Schlichting
Elmer John Traut
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board extended an
invitation to Professor Adriaan J. Barnouw, official representative of the Dutch Government, to deliver a course of
three lectures on Dutch Literature and Language. The
sum of $300 was set aside as an honorarium for these lectures.
On motion of Regent Murfin, leave of absence, with
salary, from about December I to the spring recess of the
present University year was tendered to Professor Claude
H. Van Tyne should he conclude to accept an invitation to
visit India for the purpose of making an investigation in
accordance with an invitation extended to him by the Honorable Alexander Frederick WVhyte as President of the Legislative Assembly of India. This action of the Board was
conditioned upon Professor Van Tyne's supplying at his
own expense satisfactory substitutes during his absence. It
was further understood that if Professor Van Tyne should
accept the invitation he should do so in his private capacity
and not as an official representative of the University.
The President filed with the Board a copy of the address of Dean Cabot at the opening of the Medical School
year. On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board approved
the printing and distribution in the State of 5,000 copies of
this address at an estimated expense of $I50.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board appropriated the
sum of $214.25 to meet the expenses of the dinner given to
the University Press Club of Michigan at the meeting of the
Club in Ann Arbor, October 21.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the sum of $250 was
appropriated as an honorarium to cover expenses of a
University speaker during the meeting of the Michigan
Schoolmasters' Club in the spring of 1922.
Regent Sawyer was excused.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board extended an
invitation to Marshal Ferdinand Foch to visit Ann Arbor
during his expected tour of this country.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1921


321


On motion of Regent Murfin, the Board gave its approval to the proposal of Professor A. S. Warthin to solicit
individual subscriptions upon the campus for the purpose of
erecting a monument in honor of Pasteur on the occasion
of the Pasteur Centennial to be held in Strassburg in May,
I923.
Dean Lloyd communicated to the Regents the fact that
the United States Radiator Corporation of Detroit had renewed for the year I92I-I922 its fellowship in the Graduate
School, with a gift of $5o0 for that purpose. On motion of
Regent Murfin, this cooperation was accepted with thanks.
Professor Alexander G. Ruthven communicated to the
Board the fact that Mr. E. B. Williamson, of Buffton, Indiana, Honorary Curator of Odonata in the Museum of Zoology, intended to send an expedition to the upper Amazon
basin in Brazil during the coming winter. Scientific proceeds of the expedition are to go to the Museum of Zoology.
On motion of Regent Gore, the Board heartily approved the
purpose of Mr. Williamson and expressed thanks to him
for this cooperation.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board referred to
the Executive Committee with power a proposed contract
between the Board in Control of University Publications
and a motion picture production company, for the production of a film of University life.
Dean Ward communicated to the Regents the fact that
the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching had taken steps to make a survey of dental education in
this country and had asked him to be a member of the committee to investigate southern schools of' dentistry. On
motion of Regent Murfin, the Board approved the acceptance
by Dean Ward of this invitation.
On motion of Regent Gore, Howard Arthur Nelson,
D.D.S., was appointed Assistant in the Department of Oral
Surgery, College of Dental Surgery, for the University year
I92I-1922, without pay.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Secretary was authorized to cable Librarian Bishop a request to; visit the University of Ghent where an important library was understood
to be for sale.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board made a fur



322


OCTOBER MEETING, I92I


ther change in the record of the meeting of September 30,
page 280, by inserting the words "rough mason work" after
the words "plumbing, heating, wiring," in line 15.
On motion of Regent Clements, the sum of $750 was
appropriated to cover the expense of installing a refrigerating system in the President's house.
Regent Beal reported with respect to, the collection of
papyri referred to him with power (page 254) that the committee upon examination heartily approved this purchase
and had authorized the expenditure of $2,500 accordingly.
Regent Beal offered the following resolution which was
unanimously adopted:Resolved, That we extend to former Regent Levi L.
Barbour the felicitations of this Board and congratulations
on the successful operation of the Betsy Barbour House,
which he so loyally has given the University, and which we
have visited this day.
All of the above actions were by unanimous vote except
where otherwise expressly stated.
The Board adjourned to 9:30 A. M., December 9, 1921.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH, Secretary




DECEMBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY Op MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, DECEMBER 8, I92I
The Board met in the Regents' Room at 8 P. M.
Present, the entire Board, except Superintendent Johnson.
On motion of Regent Clenents, the minutes of the meeting of October 28 were approved as submitted to the members in proof with certain specified changes.
On motion of Regent Clements, actions of the Executive
Committee were approved and confirmed as recorded in the
Committee's minutes as follows:November 2, 1921
Present, the President, Regent Beal, and Regent Sawyer.
The Committee considered the plan for the production
of a University of Michigan picture film under the auspices
of THE; MICHIGAN DAIIY, which was referred to them by
the Regents at their meeting held October 28. The plan was
approved with the following change to be made to the memorandum submitted by the DAILY:  The last clause of paragraph three of the memorandum is to be changed to read,
"The accepted story together with the completed screen
continuity is to be finally approved by a committee appointed by the President of the University of Michigan."
October 26, 1921
Present, the President, Regent Beal, and Regent Sawyer.
The sum of $850 was transferred from the salary budget of the Economics Department to the salary budget of
the English Department in order to make possible the appointment of two student assistants at $300 and one student
assistant at $250, which appointments are necessary because
of the increase in the average enrollment per instructor in
the English Department. The Committee further transferred $Ioo from the salary budget of the Economics Depart



324          DECEMBER MEETING, I921
ment to the salary budget of the Political Science Department to provide extra colmpensation of $Ioo for the year for
Charles C. Hamill, Jr., assistant in Political Science, who has
been assigned increased work.
Dr. Frieda Cobb, Assistant Director of the Botanical
Gardens, was granted a leave of absence from December I
to January 15, without pay, to enable her to take part in an
investigation of diseases of the cocoanut palm in the Canal
Zone.
The President presented the minutes of the Committee
of Five on Comprehensive Building Program, meeting of
December 8. as follows:The Committee met in the President's office at Io A.M.
Present, the President, Regent Clements, Mr. Kahn,
Professor Shepard, and Mr. Smith.
The minutes of the meeting of September Ig were approved as submitted to the members at an earlier date and
as reported to the Regents at their September Meeting (Regents' Proceedings, pages 273-278).
(A) Mrs. Henry C. Adams and Mrs. W. D. Henderson appeared and discussed with the Committee the site of
the proposed Michigan League. An agreement was reached
which is embodied in the following statement which the
Committee agreed to present for approval to the Regents
at their next ensuing meeting.
I. That the block bounded by North University
Avenue, Washington Street, Twelfth Street, and the
Mall be set aside as a site for the Michigan League
Building.
2. That the land at the corner of North University
Avenue and Twelfth Street will not be cut off for purposes of straightening Twelfth Street. There is a slight
possibility that the street will be straightened by widening this block.
3. The Women's Gymnasium will not be located
on the Mall.
4. This proposal is made with the understanding
that the Alumnae Council will be in a position to proceed with the building within a period of five years.
5. It is also understood that the building might be
located ten feet nearer to the axis of the Mall than Hill
Auditorium.




DECEMBER MEETING, I92I


325


6. It is understood that the building will cost approximately $750,000, and, if not, that the Board of
Regents will be consulted before the Alumnae Council
proceeds to construct the building. The plans in any
case will be submitted to the Board of Regents for approval.
7. It is understood that in general the buildings
for women will be located north of the campus.
(B) The President presented a letter under date of
October 6 from Professor J. Raleigh Nelson with respect
to the establishment of a campus theatre, presumably upon
the east side of Twelfth Street, between North University
Avenue and Washington Street. This letter was accompanied by a report of some length and also by correspondence
between President Burton and Regent Clements upon the
subject. On motion of Regent Clements, the following
resolution was adopted:Resolved, That the Committee of Five approve in
general the establishment of a campus theatre upon a
site on the east side of Twelfth Street, between North
University Avenue and Washington Street, the funds
for such theatre to be provided from other than public
sources, and the building to be so designed as to combine with an outdoor theatre to the east thereof.
(C) The President presented a letter from Dean Cooley embodying the request of the standing committee of the
Engineering Faculty for permission to go ahead with plans
on the new Engineering Shops and Laboratories with the
understanding that if the building and equipment should
not come within the amount allowed for the total purpose
in the building scheme (Regents' Proceedings, page 201),
equipment funds might be provided from some other source.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Committee voted to
refer this communication back. to the Dean and the standing committee with positive instructions that the allowance
of $600,000 for building and $150,000 for equipment must not
be exceeded in the total cost of building and equipment and
that no commitment beyond this sum could be made for the
future, and further, that the architect should be informed
accordingly. On motion of Mr. Smith, the Committee voted
that in the Building Program, wherever the words "building" and "equiprent" were used, it should be understood
that "equipment" comprehended all items which would be
required by a department in its occupancy of the building,
including all such items as microscopes, balances micro



326


DECEMBER MEETING, I921


tomes, and similar apparatus in general. Under this resolution it was the intent of the Committee to indicate that
the Committee would not approve the making of requests
to the Regents for any equipment whatever, requested to
make the building "usable" at or about the time of the completion of any such building, it being the intent that the
amounts allowed in the Building Program for building and
equipment should, in fact, completely equip such buildings
ready for use of faculty and students.
(D) The Committee took no further action than as
above indicated with regard to an outdoor theatre and took
no action with regard to a proposed site for a school of
music.
(E) The Committee discussed at some length the
question of an addition to. the Storehouse and Shops Building as recommended by Professor Shepard and Mr. Smith.
It was understood that the matter would have further consideration by Regent Clements and the Secretary.
(F) The President called attention to the proviso in
the mill tax act as follows: -
That the Board of Regents shall not authorize the
building or the commencement of any additional building or buildings or other extraordinary repairs until the
accumulation of savings from this fund shall be sufficient to complete such building or other extraordinary expense.
(G) The Committee voted that all working plans and
specifications, except those for the Medical Building, shall
be ready to advertise for bids before the end of February
and that bids on all such buildings shall be taken in order
that contracts may be recommended to the Board at the
March Meeting.
The Committee adjourned subject to the call of the
President.
On motion, the report of the Committee was received
and placed on file. On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board
approved the action of the Committee as recorded in subdivision A of this report. On motion of Regent Murfin, the
Board approved actions of the Committee as recorded in
subdivisions B, E, and G. The action of the Committee as
recorded in subdivision C, being within the powers of the
Committee as constituted, required no specific approval.
The President presented several hundred telegrams from
homoeopathic physicians and other citizens, protesting



