
NOVEMBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
AN\N ARiBOR, NOV. 26, I90I.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room       at I0 o'clock
A. xi., the full Board being present.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, whicl
w\ere, on motion of Regent Hill, approved and ordered printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the standing committees of the Board,
for consideration.
Professors Davis, Adams, Spalding, Greene, and Carhart
appeared before the Board to press the needs of their departments for additional room.
The following con-mmunications from Professor Kelsey were
laid before the Board.    The Board accepted the gifts, and
voted that the thanks of the Board be transmitted to the
doniors.
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Nov. 25, I901.
PRESIDENT JAMI S B. ANlGELL, UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN:
Dear,Mr. Prcsidet: I [ have pleasure in repeating that MTr. Tlleodore
D. Bluhl, of Detroit, has contributed the sum of five hundred dollars
for a classical felloNwship for the year 190I-1902, and that, by the unani1mous recolmmendationl of the Greek and Latin staff, the fellowship has
been awarded to Mr. WValter David Hadzsits, A.B. (1897), A.M. (898),
who was appointed Scott Classical Fellow for I900-1901, and on the
recommendation of the commlittee, spent last year in Rolle.
Sincerely yours,
FRANCIS XW. KELSEY.
ANN ARBOR,. MICH.. Nov. 25, I90I.
PRESIDENT JAMIES B. ANGELL, UNIVERSITY OF AMICHIGAN:
Dear Mr. President: As you are aware, for some years past friends of
the University of Michigan have made contributions toward the expenses
of the American School of Classical Studies in Rome. The payment
of one hundred dollars a year by the University makes it possible to
have a representative from the classical staff upon the managing com



2


ANOVEMBER MEETING, 1901.


inittee of the School, and also entitles graduates of the University of
Michigan to participate in its privileges without the payment of tuition.
In the past seven years twenty former students of the University have
availed themselves of this opportunity, several of them for more than
one year.
I have pleasure in reporting that during the past year the sum of
one hundred and ten dollars was given to the University for the School
in Rome by the following persons:
Miss Clara Avery, Detroit.
Mr. Frank S. Bigler, Detroit.
Mr. C. H. Campbell, Detroit.
Mr. Claude H. Candler, Detroit.
Mr. Chas. L. Freer, Detroit.
Hon. C. H. Hackley, Muskegoln.
Col. Frank J. Hecker. Detroit.
Mr. James E. Scripps, Detroit.
Mr. A. F. Temple, Muskegon.
Sincerely yours,
FRANCIS AV. KIr..sIE-.
AN-N ARiIO,    i., NvICH.,   1901.
To THE HONORABLE, THE1 BOARD OF REGENTS, UNIVERSITY OF MICHIG\AN:
Genitlemlent: I have much pleasure in reporting to you that the Library
of the University has received, as a gift from the Hon. D. M. Ferry,
cf Detroit, two large and valuable works on the history of early
Christian art. The first of these is the Roma Sotterranea, by the famous
De Rossi, and the second is the Storia dell' Arte Christiana, by Raffaele
(; arrucci.
In regard to the importance of the work first mentioned.  a better
statement can hardly be given than. that in Lowrie's -Handbook of
Christian Archxology, which has just been published, page i8: "It was
through. the work of Giovanni Battista de Rossi that Christian arclhaology first assumed its modern forml and importance; it was he who
first made it a science."
De Rossi was a voluminous writer, but the Roma Sotterranea was
the most important of his works, that in which he laid the foundations
of his science. The number of copies printed was very limited, and
the work for many years has been out of the market. This copy has an
additional interest from the autograph and dedication of De Rossi himself, which will be found, with his portrait, on the fly leaf of the
fourth and last volume containing the plates.
The history of Christian art by Garrucci consists of six large volumes of plates, with explanatory text. Of this work Mr. Lowrie says,
page 422:
'This great work, which covers the entire field of early Christian
pictorial art, is the product of learning, as well as of labor. On account
of its illustrations it must remain quite indispensable to the student of




NO V11~iBfJLJ? i MEETING,.190l.


3


this subject, till the same ground has been covered with equal complete
ness by photographic reproductions."
The addition of these works to the Library, in a department which
is now attracting so much attention, is a matter of no ordinary interest.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANCIS W. KELLSEY.
()n motion, the Board took a recess until 2 o'clock p. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. AM.
Professor Hlutchins stated that the ILaw Faculty were desirous of publishing a Law    journal in the interests of the
department.   He asked the Board to make the publishers a
guarantee loan of S8oo, to launch the project, said loan to be
paid from  the first income from the publication.
Regent Lawtton submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted on a call vote:
Resolved, That the Regents, having listened to the remarks
of Professor l:utchins, Dean of the Law Department, regarding
the proposition to publish a journal by the Law Department of
the University, we do hereby declare that such a proposition
meets with our approval, and that we shall be ready to lend
our assistance to the undertaking in the manner and to the
extent that he requests, that is, to the extent of not exceeding eight hundred dollars, to be considered as a loan, and
to be drawn upon by the Lawr Department as their needs
require. and to be returned to the Treasurer of the University
from the first funds that shall be received from the enterprise.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the following communication from Dr. V. C. Vaughan:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Nov. 2, I90I.
HONORABLE HERMANN KIlEFER, CITAIRMAN OF MEI)ICAL COMMITTEE OF THill
BOARD OF REGENTS, DETROIT, MICH.:
Dear Sir: I am instructed by the Medical Faculty to ask you to
confer at your next meeting the degree of M.D. upon Earle M. Brown
as a member of the class of I90o. Mr. Brown had not completed all of
ihis studies last June, but since that time he has complied with all the
requirements for graduation.
I desire to inform you officially that Messrs. Parke, Davis & Co.,
of Detroit, have very liberally placed at the disposal of myself, as
director of the Hygienic Laboratory, a number of large animals, calves
and horses, for experimental work on tuberculosis. The firm not only




NOV(l EBER MEElTIiA;G, )19l.


furnishes these animals, but takes tare of them while they are being
experimented upon. This means a gift of considerable importance to
the Department of Medicine and Surgery, and I suggest that the Board
of Regents pass a resolution of thanks to Messrs. Parke, Davis & Co.
for their generosity. I desire also to inform you officially that Dr. E.
H. Wells, of Meshoppen, Pennsylvania, has presented to the Medical
Library of the University of Michigan fifteen volumes of valuable, old,
rare medical books. I have personally thanked Dr. Wells for this gift.
but I take the liberty of suggesting that the Board of Regents might
lass a resolution thanking him also.
V. C. VnAUG;IN.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the degree of Doctor of
Medicine was conferred upon Earle M. Brown, as recommended
by the Faculty. And the President was requested to transmit
the thanks of the Board to Parke, Davis & Co., and to Dr. E. I-H.
Wells, for their gifts to the University.
The Hospital 1-aculty of the Department of Medicine and
Surgery reported that Ada L. \Vaters and Miinne E. Gartung
had completed the course in the Training School for Nurses,
and were entitled to certificates of graduation. Oil motion of
Regent Kiefer, the President and Secretary were authorized
to issue the proper certificates, and attach the seal of the University thereto.
Regent Kiefer presented the resignation of Mr. Lee A.
\Watling, assistant in the Dental College, which was, on motion,
accepted; anld Mr. John J. Scott was appointed to fill the place,
at a salary of $300.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the degree of Bachelor
of Arts was conferred upon Charles Jefferson Ewald, and the
(legree of Master of Arts upon Sara Whedon, in accordance
with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.
On lmotion of Regent Lawton, ege   nt gent Farr was requested
to look over the vacant property in Detroit owned hy the
University, and report its condition at the next meeting.
M\r. Ohlinger, publisher of the Inlanlder, a monthly magazine published by the student body, offered to furnish a sufficient number of copies of the   nagazines at fifty cents pef
copy, to enable the Board to place it in the hands of every
school having diploma relation with the University.  On motion of Regent Sutton, the matter was referred to the Auditing
Board, with power.




XOV:EM IBER MEIETIA \,.1901.


On motion of Regent Lawton, Geo. D. K. Hendry, B.S.,
was appointed to the second Rockefeller fellowship in Hygiene,
w\ithout cost to the University.
On motion of Regent IawNton, MIr. Markham Cheever was
appointed Assistant to the Superin-tendent of Shops for one
year from October 1st, at a salary of $200, by the full vote
of the Board.
(n motion of Regenlt Lawton, Dr. Geo. A. lMay was appointed Instructor in the \Vaterman (;ymnalsilm for onle year,
salary $1,200, )y the full vote of the Board.
Regent Butterfield moved that repairs to the extent of $ioo
be made on a certain house in Grand Rapids, owned by the
University, to enable the agent to sell the property. It was
so ordered.
On motion of Regenit Fletcher, the Au(liting Board were
(lirected to pav the bill of Professor J. B. IDavis of $87.20 for
surveying the Homoceopathic Hospital groun(ls.
rThe Secretarv stated that the Sulerintendent of Uliversity
Ilospital ren(ldered a bill to the county, on the basis of $5 per
(lay, for nursing a smallpox case at the H-Ioslital, which bill
was paid by the county. In the meantime, the University had
settled w;ith the nurse for $3. per (lay. On motion of Regent
Fletcher, the Auditing Board were instructed to return to the
county the overpayment.
Regent Kiefer moved that the Committee on 1Bildings and
(rounds procure plans for a new engineering btuilding, to cost
$ioo,ooo, including heating. The motion was carried as follows: -
Ayes: Regents Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, Hill, Lawton, Dean,
and Sutton.
Nays: None. Reg'ent Butterfield not voting.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted to buy a new
pump for use in the boiler house at a cost of $247.50.
Regent Fletcher moved that the Secretary contract with
the Ridgway Dynam-o and Engine Company, of Ridgway, Pa.,
for a 200 K. W\. dynamlo, and one I7x28x20 engine, at a cost
of $7,000. The motion was carried bv the unanimous vote of
the Board.
The senior medical class, having torn out the seats in the
amphitheatre at University Hospital, on motion of Regent
Fletcher, the Superintendent of Buildings was instructed to




(6,NO IEMBERl MEET'ING', -190 1.
p)ut in new folding seats, and( that the senior class be required
to pay the sum of one dollar each.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Auditing Board were
directed to provide additional facilities for storing ice for use
in the hospitals during the coming year, either by enlarging
the present house, or by building a new one.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, $1o,ooo was appropriated
for the purpose of completing the Woman's Gymnasium, by the
full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Regent Dean was authorized
to purchase the First Ward school building and grounds, at a
sum not exceeding $I6,ooo.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Friday, December 20,
at io o'clock A. M.
JAMEIS H. WADE,
Secretary.




DECEMBER MEETING
1901.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Dec. 20, 90oI. 
The Board assembled in the Regents' room    at io o'clock
A. M., the full Board being present, except Regent Butterfield.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Hill, approved and ordered printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the standing committees of the Board,
for consideration.
Regent Dean, who was authorized by the Board, at its last
meeting, to purchase of the Board of Education of the city of
Ann Arbor the First Ward school building and grounds, at a
cost not exceeding $I6,000, submitted the following communication from Eugene F. Mills, President of the Board, as his
report: -
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Dec. 5, I90I.
HON. H. S. DEAN,
Dear Sir: The acceptance of our proposition to sell the Perry School
building and grounds to the University of Michigan for sixteen thousand
dollars ($i6,ooo.oo) cash, has been duly received. The Board of Education at its next meeting, December io, will formally ratify the sale, and
possession will be given at the close of the present school year, June 30,
1902.                          Yours sincerely,
EUGENE F. MILLS,
Presidentt Board of Education.
On motion of Regent Lawton. the degree of Doctor of
Philosophy was conferred tupon Otto E. Lessing, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.
Regent Hill moved that Professor John 0. Reed be appointed chairman, and John R. Effinger secretary, of the Sum



8


)DECEMBER MEETING, 1901.


mer School Faculty, for the ensuing year, and that each be
allowed $Ioo for such service. It was so ordered on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Treasurer was authorized
to extend the time of payment of the Alger loan of ten thousand dollars for one year, at five per cent.
Regent Farr submitted the following resolution, which was
adopted by the full vote of the Board:
Resolved, That a sale is hereby authorized of Lot 1122 of the sub-.
division of the Walter Crane farm, private claim No. 39, according to
the plot in Liber 5, page 29 of plats, in the Register's office, Wayne
County, Mich., to Daniel Rowen, of Detroit, Mich., for a consideration
of four hundred dollars, and the president and secretary are hereby
authorized and directed to execute such deed for and in behalf of the
Board of Regents.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the following communication from Dr. V. C. Vaughan, and the recommendations
therein contained were approved by the Board:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Dec. 18, I901.
HONORABLE HERMANN KIEFER, DETROIT, MICH.,
Dear Sir: I am requested by the Medical Faculty to present the
following to the Honorable Board of Regents:
First: We ask that Dr. E. M. Houghton be appointed special
lecturer on the Manufacture and Preparation of Medicines, without
other pay than his actual expenses. Dr. Houghton has an important
position with Messrs. Parke, Davis & Co. He is a graduate of the
Medical Department, and will give our students some valuable lectures
upon the preparation of medicines.
Second: Inasmuch as the medical students are compelled, in passing
from one ward of the hospital to the other, to go around the north end
of the nurses' ward, we ask your Honorable Body to provide for a light
on the outside and at the north end of the nurses' home. There are
steep places at this place, and these are often covered more or less with
snow and ice, and the descent in the dark is somewhat dangerous. We
ask this in order to prevent serious accident.
Respectfully,
V. C. VAUGHAN.
Miss Marion A. Lawton, a daughter of Regent Lawton,
a graduate of the Literary Department, and now a teacher in
the Philippine Islands, sent a box'of fine cigars to the Board,
with Christmas greetings.    On motion of Regent Farr, the
President was requested to transmit the cordial thanks of the
Board to Miss I.awton for her kind Christmas remembrance.
Regent Kiefer read a communication from       a majority of




DECEMBBER MEETING,.1901.


9


the H-ospital Committee of University Hospital, asking that
when the Palmer \WAard is built, it be set apart for administrative purposes and a ward for ophthalmology.     Also a communication  from   Dr. Dock, asking that the said ward be
used only for tuberculosis patients. He moved that the matter
be referred to the MVedical Committee and the chairman of the
Building Committee for consideration, and report at the next
meeting of the Board. It was so ordered by a full vote.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the following communication from Dr. A. B. Prescott, Director of the Chemical
Laboratory, and the recommendations therein contained were
approved by the Board on a call vote:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Dec. I9, I9OI.
To THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
Gentlem7zen: Mr. Perry F. Trowbridge presents herewith his resignation as Accountant and Instructor in the Chemical Laboratory, to
take effect on January i, 1902, with the provision that if desired he
will continue his service as instructor for one day each week from
Christmas vacation to the end of the semester, February 7. With this
provision, I recommend the acceptance of the resignation. Mr. Trowbridge resigns in order to accept a responsible position in the beet-sugar
industry, to the chemistry of which he has for some time devoted his
investigations. While I regret the loss of his services in this laboratory,
I have confidence in the work he will carry out in this important Michigan industry.
I recommend the appointment of Mr. Edward Lucas as Dispensing
Accountant in the Chemical Laboratory, at the rate of nine hundred
dollars per year, to begin January i, 1902. Also the employment of
Mr. Robert J. Colgrove as dispensing helper in the Chemical Laboratory
at the rate of three hundred dollars per calendar year, from January i
to June 30, 1902. With these employees it will be undertaken to carry
the chemical supplies, but this will not be without increased labor
on the part of the director and his colleagues until the experience of
the new supply agent shall be found sufficient.
To fill the vacancy in the teaching force in the second semester, so
far as the elective studies which have been in Mr. Trowbridge's hands
cannot be distributed and deferred, I recommend that Walter H. Blome,
Ph.C., now assistant in pharmacy with duties largely in first semester,
be employed in the second semester, with $200 additional compensation, his work to be fully in charge of Assistant Professor A. B. Stevens.
In 1902-03 the work of the sugar chemistry will be provided for in
the branch of chemical technology.
Very respectfully submitted,
A. B. PRESCOTT.




10


DECEBER M1EETING, 1901.


The monthly reports of both hospitals were read, compared,
and placed on file.
The Homceopathic Faculty reported that Lily A. BenOliel,
Gertrude E. Mulhollen, Eddeva A. Pomeroy, and Clara G.
\Williams had completed the required work in the Training
School for Nurses, and were recommended for graduation. On
motion of Regent Dean, the President and Secretary were
authorized to issue the proper certificate, and attach the seal
of the University thereto.
Regent Farr stated that Instructor Dwyer, who has been
acting as Assistant Law Librarian, with a salary of $300,
desired to be relieved from further service in that capacity.
It was voted that Assistants Miss Woodard and Mr. Loomis
be requested to take the work heretofore performed by Mr.
Dwyer, and that Miss Woodard be paid at the rate of $900
per year, she to pay Mr. Loomis for any extra time that may
be required of him in order to carry out this arrangement.
On motion of Regent Iawton, the title of Professor Chas.
S. Denison was changed to Professor of Stereotomy, Mechanism, and Drawing.
On motion of Regent Lawton, Mr. George P. Burns, Ph.D.,
was appointed Assistant in Botany for one year from October
Tst, at a salary of $200; and Florence Hedges, Charles R. Eckler,
and Anna L. Rhodes were appointed Assistants in Botany for
one year, without pay, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion, the Board took a recess until 2 o'clock p. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. I.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Secretary was directed to
notify the Auditor-General that the cost of the new medical
building, now in course of construction on the campus, would
be $I25,000, as follows: Contract for the building, $86,00o;
heating and lighting, $15,000; estimated cost of equipment,
$24,000.
Mason and Kahn, architects of the new engineering building, submitted sketch plans and an elevation of the proposed
building. After some discussion by the Board, the architects
were requested to prepare another elevation, and submit the
same at the next meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, it was voted to pay Spier




DEC(AEMBEkR MIETI NG,!/901.


11.


and Rohns $1,200 for preparing the drawings and specifications
for a new science building, which the Board subsequently decided not to build. These plans and specifications are to be
deposited with the University.
Regent Farr moved that Spier and Rolns be paid 32 per
cent for the plans and for the supervision of the new medical
building.
Regent Kiefer moved to amend by making it 4 per cent.
The vote on Regent Kiefer's amendment resulted as follows:
Ayes: Regents Kiefer and Fletcher.
Nays: Regents Farr, Hill, Dean, Lawton, and Sutton.
A vote was then taken on the original motion, which resulted as follows:
Ayes: Regents Farr, Hill, Dean, Lawton, and Sutton.
Nays: Regents Kiefer and Fletcher.
On motion of Regent Hill, the Secretary was authorized to
allow Dr. Huber to use $Io from the budget fund of his department to pay the freight on microscopes, for which a special
appropriation had been made by the Board.
On motion of. Regent Fletcher, Mr. Charles Baird was
reappointed Director of Outdoor Athletics for one year, at
the same salary and on the same conditions as last year, viz.:
that $I,200 be paid him from the general fund and $800 from
the proceeds of the gate receipts from the Regents' Field.
On motion, Regent Fletcher wvas requested to get bids on
two more new tubular boilers, 250 horsepower each, to take the
place of two old boilers, now out of use.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the Committee on Buildings
and Grounds were authorized to move the heating plant at
University Hospital to a point farther down the hill, where
a sidetrack from the railway can reach it.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the vote requesting the
Medical Committee and the Chairman of the Building Committee to confer with the Hospital Committee as to the use
to be made of the Palmer Ward, when constructed, was rescindel, and the Board voted to use the building for a children's
ward.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Building Committee
were authorized to employ architect John Scott, to prepare
plans for an extension to the Nurses' Home at University
Hospital, to be known as the Palmer Ward.




12


)DECEMBElR iEETING, 190 1.


On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted that arrangements be made at the heating plant, by which the firemen and
coal-handlers shall work on eight-hour shifts, and that the
firemen be paid at the rate of $I.50 per day, and the coalhandlers at the rate of $I.35 per day.
The President delivered an address at the meeting of
the " Federation of Wlomen's Clubs," and the Club requested
the Board to furnish them three hundred copies for distribution. On motion of Regent Farr, the request was granted,
by the full vote of the Board.
The Ishpeming Hiigh School foot-ball team appealed to the
Board to relieve them of a part of the expense of the team's
coming to Ann Arbor to contest with Kalamazoo for the
championship of the State. The gate receipts left a deficit in
their expense account of $269. The Secretary was directed to
say that the Board recognizes the importance of the high
schools of the State coming in contact with the University in
this way, and they would be glad, indeed, to relieve the team
of this expense, if it was in their power to do so; but they
are unable to see by what authority they could make an appropriation for this purpose.
The Board authorized the chairman of the Committee on
Buildings and Grounds to employ John Scott, architect, to
prepare plans for the finishing of the basement of the Barbour
Gymnasium.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Friday, Tanuary 17, 1902.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




JANUARY MEETING
1902.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,       f
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Jan. 24, 1902.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room, at io o'clock
A. M.
Present: Regents Fletcher, Farr, Hill, Lawton, Dean, Sutton, and Carey.
Absent: Regent Butterfield.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Fletcher, approved and ordered
printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the standing committees of the Board,
for consideration.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Regents Farr, Lawton, and
Dean were appointed a committee to make a recast of the
standing committees of the Board, and report the same to
the Board for approval.
After a brief period, the committee made the following
report, which was, on motion of Regent Farr, adopted by the
full Board:
Executive Committee: The President, Regents Butterfield and Dean.
Finance Committee: Regents Farr and Hill.
Committee on Literary Department and Athletics: Regents Hill and
Dean.
Committee on Engineering Department: Regents Dean and Fletcher.
Committee on Medical, Dental, and Pharmaceutical Departments:
Regents Lawton and Farr.
Committee on Law Department: Regents Butterfield and Sutton.
Committee on Homceopathic College: Regents Cary and Butterfield.
Committee on Library and Museum: Regents Sutton and Carey.
Committee on Buildings and Grounds: Regents Fletcher and Lawton.




14


JANUARIY lMEETING, 190)2.


On motion of Regent Hill, the degree of Bachelor of Lettcrs was conferred upon Ralph Henry Kellogg, as of the class
ofl 1895, in accordance with the recomnmendation of the Faculty
of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
Professor M. E. Cooley reported that the American Radiator Company, of Chicago, had presented to the University
several cast-iron  radiators, for experimental purposes.    On
motion, the President was requested to transmit to this company the thanks of the Board.
The President submitted the following report of the action
of the Executive Committee during the interim    of the Board,
and on motion of Regent Dean, the report was adopted by the
full vote of the Board:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Jan. 13, I902.
To THE BOARD OF REGENTS:.
The Executive Committee beg leave to report as follows: Owing
to the death of Mr. Parker, it became necessary to appoint an instructor
in Mechanical Engineering at once. After conference with Dean
Greene and Prof. M. E. Cooley, we invited Mr. John C. Thorpe, B.S.,
to fill the place for the remainder of the year, at a salary of $900.o0.
Mr. Thorpe is a graduate of the Engineering Department of the University of Illinois, and has been for some time employed by the Burlington and Quincy Railroad Company,
For the Committee,
JAMES B. ANGELL.
The President presented and read the following communication from the Registrar of the Literary Faculty:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Jan. 8, 1902.
To THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
Gentlemtenl: When I presented to you the list of candidates for
the Bachelor's degree, which you granted at the meeting of October I6, I
inadvertently omitted to mention that the degree conferred on Richmond
Henry Kirtland was voted by the Faculty to be given as of the year
1900. I now beg your -honorable body to make that correction in the
minutes of said meeting.
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DE PONT, Registrar.
On motion of Regent Hill, the correction indicated in the
foregoing communication was niade, by the full vote of the
Board.
Regent Farr submitted the following resolutions, which were
adopted by the full Board:




JANUARY MEETING,.1902.


15


Resolved, That the sum of $I96.83 is appropriated to repay Professor
Kelsey for money advanced by him for freight and storage upon gifts
to the University of Roman antiquities.
Resolved, That hereafter no purchases of property, employment of
persons, or any pledge of the credit of the University, made by any
person without the authority of the Board of Regents, will be recognized, and all such purchases, employment, or pledging of the credit of
the University is hereby forbidden.
The secretary is hereby directed to notify all persons connected with
the University of this action.
Regent Butterfield reported that he had sold to Lanis Seigle
and Katie Seigle, his wife, the house and lot in the Hunnamun
and Reed addition to the city of Grand Rapids, for the sum
of $500 (less $40 commission to agent, $460), said property
being a part of the WVilliams fund. He desired the Board to
confirm this sale, and authorize the execution of the deed.
On motion of Regent Farr, the President and Secretary were
authorized to execute the deed in the name of the Board.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Secretary was directed to
pay George S. Field $50, for services in keeping the books and
records of the Williams fund, from Jan. I,.I9oI, to Jan. I,
I902, under the direction of Levi L. Barbour, who is custodian
of a portion of this fund.
On motion of Regent Dean, Professor V. M. Spalding was
granted leave of absence from    February Io to April TI,
without expense to the University, he to employ Dr. Burns to
take his work during his absence.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Regent Farr and the Secretary were requested to go to Lansing, for the purpose of
conferring with the Auditor-General on University matters.
Regent Farr submitted the following resolution, which was
adopted by the full Board:
Resolved, That the release by the President and Secretary
of the Dopeta Mortgage, so called, in South Omaha, Nebraska,
is hereby authorized, sanctioned, and approved.
On motion of Regent Lawton, Mary Leach was appointed
fellow in Physiological Chemistry.
A communication from.the Clinical Faculty of University
Hospital, asking the Board to extend the course in the Training
School for Nurses to three years was, on motion of Regent
Fletcher, referred to the Med.ical Committee for consideration.
On motion of Regent Hill, Frederick Tyndall Swan was




16


JAJNUARY MlEETING, 1902.


appointed Assistant in Latin for the remainder of the year,
without pay.
On motion of Regent Dean, it was voted that an Assistant
in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing be appointed for the
second semester, and that the compensation be $400 for the
half year's service.
Regent Hill moved that $I50 be appropriated for the purpose of securing additional assistance in the department of
Greek during the second semester.   It was so ordered on a
call vote.
On motion of Regent Hill, Mr. W\illiam H. Faust was appointed Quiz-master in Commercial Law for one year, beginning October Ist last, at a salary of $300.
Regent Lawton submitted the following communication from
the Committee on Forestry, and the recommendations therein
contained were approved on a call vote of the Board:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Jan. 24, 1902.
In view of the fact that a number of citizens of Michigan have offered
to make over to the University tracts of land for forestry purposes, and
that in order to complete the transfer it will be necessary for a duly
authorized representative of the University to conduct negotiations and
transact business pertaining thereto, we recommend that the instructor
in forestry, Mr. Charles A. Davis, be authorized to spend such time as
may be required during the early months of the present year in securing
titles to such lands, and that a sum not exceeding one hundred dollars
be appropriated for traveling and other necessary expenses for this purpose.
V. M. SPALDING, for Commlittee on Forestry.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was authorized
to contract with the Sterling Company for two boilers, 338
H. P. each, to have 3,I43 square feet of heating surface, for
the sum of $5,760, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Hill, it was voted to correct the
minutes of the June meeting, i9oi, to show that the degree
of Bachelor of Arts conferred on Gen. Bluford Wilson was
not an honorary degree, but "as of the class of 1865; " also
that the name of James Roy Furman should be included in the
list of graduates of the College of Dental Surgery in 1899.
On motion, the Board took a recess until 2 o'clock P. r.




JANUARY. MEETING, 1902.


1',


AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. m.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Law Faculty were allowed
to draw on the guarantee fund made by the Board, to the
extent of $200, for immediate use, by the full vote of the
Board.
Regent Fletcher moved that Mason and Kahn, architects,
be instructed to complete the plans and specifications for the
new Engineering building, according to their sketch plan
marked A, except that the testing tank should be extended to
300 feet, and that the specifications should require bidders to
submit estimates of the work, both with tile and slate roof,
with expanded metal or wood floors, with and without plate
glass. It was so ordered by the full Board.
The Dean of the Law Faculty asked permission of the
Board to invite Sir Frederick Pollock, of England, to deliver
a course of lectures before the Law students. On motion of
Regent Farr, the request was granted.
On motion of Regent Farr, it was voted that architect John
Scott be instructed to prepare the plans and specifications for
the Palmer Ward, and that the compensation be three per cent
for the plans only.
Regent Fletcher moved that the contract for the marble
work in the Barbour Gylnnasium be awarded to the Detroit
Marble Company, for the sum of $6,789; and that the contract
for the plumbing be awarded to Hutzel and Company, of Ann
Arbor, for the sum of $949. The motion was carried by the
unanimous vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted that the Secretary purchase one pipe-cutting machine, '" to 2", at a cost
not exceeding $342.
On motion of Regent Htill, Assistant Professor Drake was
made Junior Professor of Latin and Roman Law; salary not
to exceed $2,000 for both subjects.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, architects Mason and Kahn
were authorized to complete the plans for the Psychopathic
\vard, under the directions of Drs. Herdman and Vaughan,
provided the building can be built for $45,000, including expanded metal floors.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Board adjourned to
February 27, 902.'              JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




FEBRUARY MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,      }
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Feb. 27, I902.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at io o'clock
A. M.
Present: Regents Fletcher, Butterfield, Farr, Lawton, Dean,
Sutton, and Carey.
Absent: Regent Hill.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Fletcher, approved and ordered
printed.:Communications which had      reached the President were.
placed in the hands of the standing committees of the Board,.
for consideration.
The President presented the following communication from
Librarian Davis, and it was voted that the thanks of the
Board be transmitted to the government of France for its
valuable contribution to the General Library of this University:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Feb. 26, 1902.
To PRESIDENT ANGELL:
The following is submitted for the consideration of the Board of
Regentst.
The General Library of the University of Michigan has recently
received the following volumes from the Ministere de 'Instruction Publique et des Beaux-Arts (France). They were solicited by President
Angell through the State Department at Washington, at the suggestion
of Professor Kelsey. I. Inventaire General des Richesses d'Art de la
France, Paris, Monuments Civils, Tomes I, 2, 2 vols.; Province,
Monuments Civils, Tomes 1-3, 5-6, 5 vols.; Province, Monuments
Religieux, Tome i, I vol.; Paris, Monuments Religieux, Tomes
i, 2, 2 vols.; Archives du Musee des Monuments Francais, Parts 1-3,
3 vols.- II. Reunion des Societes Savantes des Ddpartements a la Sorbonne, 1877, I878, 1879; Reunion des Societes des Beaux-Arts, I880,
i88i, 1882, 1883, 1884, I885, I886, 1887; Reunion des Societes des
Beaux-Arts des Departements, Salle de 1'Hemicycle, a l'Ecole Nationale
les Beaux-Arts, I888, I889, 1890, I891, 1892, 1893, 1894, 1895, I896,




20


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1902.


1897, 1898, 1899, I9oo; also Table Analytique, 1877 a 1896; 25 vols.III. Correspondence des Directeurs de 1'Acad6mie de France a Rome,
pubilee par Anatole Montaiglon et Jules Guiffrey, Vols. I, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
8, 9, o1 (I666-I753).-IV. Restaurations des Monuments Antiques par
les Architectes Pensionnaires de l'Acad6mie de France a Rome depuis
1788 jusqu' a nos Jours, Publi6es sous les Auspices du Gouvernement
Francais: -. La Colonne Trajane, par Charles Percier.- 2. Basilisque
Ulpienne, par Jeanne B. Lesueur.- 3. Temples de Paestum, par Henri
Labrouste.- 4. Temple de la Pudicit6, par L. A. Dubut.- 4. Temple de
Vesta, par J. A. Coussin.- 5. Temple de Jupiter Panhellenien, par
Charles Garnier.- 6. Temple de Marc-Aurele, par Alexandre Villain.7. Thermes de Diocletien, par Edmond Paulin. (7 vols.) In all 54
-voliumes.               Very respectfully,
RAYMOND C. DAVIS, Librarian.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the degree of Doctor of
Dental Surgery was conferred upon Henry Shute Downing,
Herbert Lowes, Roland Herbert Neelands, Charles Frederick
Keyser, Benjamin Masselink, and Fred Evart Robinson, in
accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty.
On motion of Regent Farr, Dr. Watling was granted leave
of absence for four weeks, he to provide for his work during
his absence.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was authorized to purchase a twelve-inch pipe-cutting machine, at a cost
of $420 and freight, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted that when the
school building recently purchased of the city comes into possession of the University, it shall be devoted to the use of
the Literary Department, and shall be known as West Hall.
Professors Carhart, Vaughan, and Prescott appeared before
the Board, and discussed matters relating to graduate work in
the  University.  On motion of Regent Fletcher, the matter
was referred to the Committee on the Literary Department.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Board took a recess until
2 o'clock p. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock P. M., Regent Hill being
present.
On motion of Regent Hill, Regent Dean was asked to take
the chair during the absence of the President.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Committee on Buildings




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1902.


21


and Grounds were authorized to arrange with the Engineering
Department to superintend the wiring and piping of the New
Medical Building.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was authorized
to pay Spier and Rohns $750 for services as architects of the
New Medical Building.
On motion of Regent Dean, Mr. Frederick Charles Wilson
was appointed undergraduate assistant in Descriptive Geometry
and Drawing. The expenditure for this appointment was made
at the last meeting of the Board.
Regent Farr submitted the following resolution, which was
adopted by the Board:      Resolved, That conveyance by the.
President and Secretary is hereby authorized of the N. Y2 of
Lot 82, of Nelson's addition to the city of Omaha, State of
Nebraska; and of Lot IT, Block 13, Jetter's addition to the
city of Nebraska aforesaid; the first at $I,ooo, and the last
at $425; and that conveyances heretofore made by the President
and Secretary are hereby confirmed.
Regent Farr presented and read the following communication fromn Margaret E. Hunt, formerly of Detroit, but now
residing in Ann Arbor:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Feb. 26, I902.
To THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, ANN ARBOR, MICH.
Dear Sirs: The tract of land which I herewith offer to the Regents
of the University,-in trust for the endowment of scholarships, is situated
in Humboldt County, in the State of California. It is about fifty miles
south of Eureka, the county seat, on the line of the projected railroad
from San Francisco to Eureka, now in process of construction. I understand this road will be finished to a point I70 miles north of San
Francisco the coming year. There is a road from Eureka to the Pacific
Lumber Co.'s mill, about forty miles south, leaving a gap of perhaps a
hundred miles to be built to complete the connection between San Francisco and Eureka.
The topography of the country will bring this road through this
land on one side or the other of the south fork of the Eel River, which
passes through the tract. The river here is wide and deep enough for
all purposes of lumbering. The Pacific Lumber Co.'s mill is a short
distance below, on the Eel River.
There are from sixteen to twenty million feet of lumber on the
land, and. a part of it is of the thickest growth. On the next claim
below, where the timber is of the same character, the owner manufactured one million feet sawn lumber from two measured acres of
ground. As soon as the railroad is completed, this timber will be worth




22


FEBRUARY MEETING,.1902.


from five to eight dollars per thousand feet stumpage, as it will cut
about eighty per cent clear lumber.
It is my intention to pay the taxes on these lands as long as they
remain in the possession of the University; but if by any chance the
University should be called upon to pay the taxes, there is provision
made in the deed to refund any such payments from the first receipts
of the income.
In this transaction I am endeavoring to benefit my family in what
I conceive to be the best manner, by providing them with a permanent
income during their lives, and insuring to their children the means of
fitting themselves for useful and honorable lives. I have reserved a
part of the principal for myself, if the sale is made in my lifetime, in
order to provide for my family if they should need it, or to reinvest in
timber lands, thus increasing the amount for a future endowment.
I have named one of the scholarships the James B. Hunt Scholarship, in memory of my husband's father, who was a prominent man in
the early days of the State. He was the Acting Commissioner of Internal Improvement, who constructed the central railroad from Detroit
to Ann Arbor, and other internal improvements. He was afterward
the Representative in Congress for the Third District of Michigan.
Ever since I purchased this land I have intended to give it to the
University for the endowment of scholarships, and when at one time
I seemingly faced the inevitable end, I rejoiced that I had made the
proper provisions in my will for this purpose. It is the fulfillment of
the purpose of a lifetime.
With my best wishes for the success of our University, and for the
prosperity of each of you,
I remain, yours sincerely,
MARGARET E. HUNT.
The following is the deed of the lands referred to in the
foregoing communication:
THIS INDENTURE, made this twenty-sixth day of February, in
the year of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two, between
Margaret E. Hunt and Charles J. Hunt, her husband, of the city of Ann
Arbor, county of Washtenaw, and State of Michigan, parties of the
first part, and the Regents of the University of Michigan, a corporation
created by the laws of the State of Michigan, party of the second part,
Witnesseth, that the said parties of the first part, for and in consideration of the sum of one dollar, to them in hand paid by the said
party of the second part, the receipt whereof is hereby confessed and
acknowledged, have granted, bargained, sold, remised, released, aliened,
and confirmed, and by these presents do grant, bargain, sell, remise,
release, alien, and confirm unto the said party of the second part, and
to their successors and assigns, forever, all those pieces or parcels of
land, situate and being in the county of Humboldt, and State of California, and described as follows, to wit: The east half of the southeast
quarter of section thirteen. in township two south, of range two east,




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1902.


23


and lot three of section eighteen in township two south, of range three
east, of Humboldt meridian, California, containing one hundred and fifteen and eighty-eight hundredths acres of land, according to the government survey, be the same more or less,
In trust for the following purposes; viz.:
I. To sell and dispose of the above-described lands and appurtenances at a price not less than eighty thousand dollars, or at such time
and for such a price as may hereafter be requested in writing by the
said parties of the first part, or the survivor of them, and after the
death of the said parties of the first part, at such price as to the
said party of the second part may seem best.
2. To invest one half of the money arising from the sale of said
lands and appurtenances in the bonds of the State of Michigan, or in
such other manner or in such other securities as shall seem to the said
Regents of the University of Michigan most suitable and proper to
produce a steady interest or income, and to reinvest the same from
time to time, as may be necessary.
3. To refund to. the said party of the second part, from the interest
or income derived from the said half of the money arising from the
sale of the said lands and appurtenances, any and all moneys the said
party of the second part shall have expended in the care and preservation of said lands.
4. To pay over to the said parties of the first part, and to the survivor of them, as soon as received, the net interest or income derived
from the said half of the money arising from the sale of the said lands
and appurtenances, during their lives and the life of the survivor of
them.
5. After the termination of the said life interests, to establish one
or more scholarships in the undergraduate course o.f studies in the
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, in the University of
Michigan. To pay from the interest or income derived from the said half
of the money arising from the sale of said lands and appurtenances, to
each of the first two scholarships, the sum of two hundred dollars,
annually, and to each of the other scholarships the sum of one hundred
and fifty dollars, annually, and in such amounts, and at such times,
and under such rules and regulations as from time to time shall be prescribed by the said Regents of the University of Michigan, and during
the time prescribed in the rules and regulations of the said University
of Michigan, in force at such period, for the completion of the said
undergraduate course of studies in the Department of Literature,
-Science, and the Arts, in the said University of Michigan. That the
said Regents of the University of Michigan shall from time to time
prescribe the physical, moral, and mental requisites and requirements,
and all necessary rules and regulations in regard to the application for,
and the granting these scholarships, and the amount of education or
scholarship requisite to entitle such applicant to the appointment to
such scholarship, but which shall not be more than that required from
time to time by the rules and regulations of the said University of




24


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1902.


Michigan, for the admission of undergraduates of the first year in the
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts of said University of
Michigan, but such applicants may be admitted to an advanced standing on the same requirements as other undergraduates, and shall be
entitled to all the benefit and advantage of said scholarships. The said
Regents of the University of Michigan shall have the right and power
to suspend the payment of any of said annuities, and to revoke, cancel,
and annul the appointment to any scholarship at any time they may
deem it expedient and necessary.
6. The first of the said scholarships hereby created shall be known
as the James B. Hunt Scholarship, in memory of the father of the said
Charles J. Hunt. The second of said scholarships shall be known as
the Charles J. Hunt Scholarship. All the other scholarships hereby
created shall be known as the Margaret Smith Hunt Scholarships.
7. To give the scholarships which are hereby endowed from the said
fund, consisting of the said half of the money arising from the sale of
the said lands and appurtenances, to such residents of the State of
Michigan as shall apply for the same, preferably to such applicants who
would otherwise be unable to attend or study at said University of
Michigan. Such benefit to be shared: equally as may be by the girls
and boys, the division, of the appointments to be made under the direction of the Regents of the University of Michigan.
8. In case any of the said interest or income derived from the fund,
consisting of the said half of the money:arising from the sale of said
lands and appurtenances, shall be unexpended and unappropriated at the
close of any collegiate year, then such-remaining interest.or income
shall become and remain a part of the principal of the fund for the
maintenance of the scholarships hereby created, and shall be invested
in the same manner by the said Regents of the University of Michigan.
9. To pay over as soon as received the remaining half of the money
arising from the sale of said lands and appurtenances to the said
Margaret E. Hunt, in case the said sale should have been made in her
life time. But in case the said sale should not have been made and
completed in her life time, then and in that case, to invest the said
remaining half of the money arising from the sale of said lands and
appurtenances in the bonds of the State of Michigan, or in such other
manner, or in such other securities, as shall seem to the said Regents of
the University of Michigan most suitable and proper to produce a steady
interest or income, and to reinvest the same, from time to time, as may
be necessary.
Io. To pay from the interest or income derived from the last aforesaid half of the money arising from the sale of said lands and appurtenances, an annuity of three hundred dollars per annum to Miss
Josephene A. Williams, of Ionia, Michigan, during her natural life.
11. To pay the remainder of the interest or income derived from the
last aforesaid half of the fund arising from the sale of the said lands
and appurtenances to James:O. Smith, the brother of the said grantor,
Margaret E. Hunt, Elizabeth M. Smith, Jay Green Smith, and Vera




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1902.


25


Smith, children of James 0. Smith, share and share alike, during their
natural lives. And upon the termination of the life estate of the said
Josephene A. Williams, the amount of her annuity shall be divided and
paid to the last aforesaid persons, equally, share and share alike, during
their natural lives.
12. As soon as any and each and all of the last above-mentioned life
interests shall be terminated; the part or portion of the last aforesaid
half of the fund derived from the sale of said lands and appurtenances,
so released by the termination of any of said life interests, shall become
a part of and be incorporated with the principal of the fund hereinbefore
appropriated, designated, and assigned for the establishment and maintenance of scholarships in the undergraduate course- of studies in the
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts in the University of
Michigan, and shall be invested in the same manner, and used for the
same purposes, by the said Regents of the University of Michigan. To
pay to the first of the scholarships hereby endowed the sum of three
hundred dollars per annum, and which shall be given to any one of the
family or kin of the said grantor, Margaret E. Hunt, who may apply
for the same; but in case no one of said grantor's family or kin should
apply for said scholarship, then in that case the said annuity shall be
divided and one hundred and fifty dollars per annum paid to each of
two scholarships. To pay to each, of the other scholarships hereby
endowed the sum of one hundred and fifty dollars per annum. The
scholarships hereby created shall be known as the Margaret Smith Hunt
Scholarships.
Together with all and singular the hereditaments and appurtenances
thereunto belonging or in anywise appertaining, and the reversion and
reversions, remainder and remainders, rents, issues, and profits thereof,
and all the estate, title, interest, or demand whatsoever of the said
parties of the first part, either in law or equity, of, in, and to the abovebargained premises, with the hereditaments and appurtenances. To
have and to hold the said premises unto the said party of the second
part, their successors, and assigns forever.
And the said parties of the first part, for themselves, their heirs,
executors, and administrators, do covenant, grant, bargain, and agree
to and with the said party of the second part, their successors and
assigns, that at the time of the ensealing and delivery of these presents
they were well seized of the premises above described as of a good,
sure, perfect, absolute, and indefeasible estate of inheritance, in the
law in fee simple; and that the said lands are free from all incumbrances whatever, and that the above-bargained premises in the quiet
and peaceable possession of the said party of the second part, their
successors and assigns, against all and every person or persons lawfully
claiming or to claim the whole or any part thereof, they will forever
warrant and defend.




26


'FEBRlUARY I MEETING, 1 902.


In witness whereof the said parties of the first part have hereunto
set their hands and seals the day and year first above written.
Signed, sealed, and delivered in presence of
JAMES H. WADE.
BELLE KLINE.
MARGARET E. HUNT.   L. S.
CHARLES J. HUNT.    L. S.
STATE OF MICHIGAN,      SS
COUNTY OF WASHTENAW.
On this 27th day of February, in the year one thousand nine hundred
and two, before me, a Notary Public, in and for said county, personally
appeared Margaret E. Hunt and Charles J. Hunt, known to me to 'be
the same persons described in, and who executed the within instrument,
who severally acknowledged the same to be their free act and deed.
BELLE KLINE,
Washtenaw County, Mich.
On motion of Regent Farr, the trust was accepted by the
unanimous vote of the Board, and the President was requested
to convey to Mr. and Mrs. Hunt the cordial thanks of the
Board for their generous gift for the encouragement of advanced study in the University.
On motion of Regent Hill, Miss Bertha Stewart was appointed assistant in the Barbour Gymnasium for the remainder
of the college year, salary $5o, by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Hill moved that an appropriation of $3oo be made
for the purpose of securing the full time of Assistants Pyle
and Colton for the remainder of the year in the Department
of Physics; and $150 for the employment of a competent person
to assist in correcting manuscripts in the Department of
English.  It was so ordered on a call vote.
Regent Hill moved that Mr. C. E. Galloway and David Olsen
be appointed assistants in Psychology for the remainder of the
year, at a salary of $50 each. It was so voted by the Board.
Regent Lawton presented and read the following communication from Dr. V. C. Vaughan, Dean of the Medical Faculty:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Feb. 26, I902.
HONORABLE CHARLES D. LAWTON, CHAIRMAN OF THE MEDICAL COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
Dear Sir: I am requested by the Medical Faculty to ask the Honorable Board to consider the following:
I. The Faculty requests that Dr. Guy M. Winslow, of Boston, be
appointed Instructor in Anatomy in place of Dr. Bourland, who will
resign at the end of this year, at the same salary. Dr. Winslow's
work, if he be appointed, will begin at the beginning of the next




PFEBRUARY MEETING, 1902.


2'7


session, and his appointment should date from   October i, 1902.
The object in asking that the appointment be made at this time
is that Dr. Winslow may have definite information, and may arrange
his matters accordingly. Dr. Winslow has been teaching Anatomy for
some years in Tufts College. He has written several original articles,
and is recommended highly both on account of his thorough learning
and as a teacher.
2. The Medical Faculty desires that the honorable Board of Regents
should at the proper time fit up what is now known as the Anatomical
Laboratory, for the teaching of Electrotherapeutics.  Dr. Herdman,
who has charge of Electrotherapeutics, will be glad to furnish the Board,
whenever it is desired, a statement concerning the changes which will
be necessary in order to convert this building into a suitable laboratory.
3. It gives me pleasure to inform the Board that the woman in
Denver who has been impersonating Dr. Emma W. Mooers, of Boston,
has been tried, convicted, and sentenced. I have recovered the certificate given this woman by Mr. Wade. I hope that this ends very satisfactorily to the University a matter which has given us no little annoyance.  The Medical Faculty has extended to the Secretary of the State
Board of Medical Examiners, of Colorado, and to the Assisting Prosecuting Attorney, at Denver, its thanks for the energy with which they have
prosecuted this suit. The Faculty has also thanked Dr. Henry Sewall,
of Denver, who held a chair in our school at the time when the real
Dr. Mooers was a student here, and whose testimony aided in the conviction of the fraudulent woman. I have turned over to Secretary Wade
a bill of expenses in this case.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
V. C. VAUGHAN, Dean.
On motion of Regent Lawton, Dr. Guy M. Winslow was
appointed Instructor in Anatomy for the year I902-1903, salary
$9goo, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the Secretary was authorized
to pay the expenses of Dr. Emma W. Mooers in going from
Boston to Denver as a witness in the suit indicated in the
foregoing communication.
On motion of Regent Hill, the Committee on Buildings and
Grounds were authorized to purchase wire and piping for the
New   Medical Building, not exceeding the amount of $3,000.
This motion wfas carried on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted to purchase a
magazine and book rack for use in the Alumni room, to cost
not exceeding $25.
The President presented the following list of names of persons nominated to give instruction in the Summer Session of
1902, with the compensation fixed in accordance with the rules




28                  iEBRtUARY MEETING, 1902,
of the Board (see Proceedings for January,         900o, page 477);
and, on motion of Regent Butterfield, the list was approved,
and the appointments made by the full vote of the Board:
APPOINTMENTS FOR FACULTY OF SUMMER SESSION, DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND
THE ARTS, 1902.
Professor I. N. Demmon, English Literature..................$250 oo
Professor W. -W. Beman, Mathematics........................ 250 00
Professor Volney M. Spalding, Botany......................... 250 00
Professor W. H. Payne, Pedagogy......................... 250 00
Professor T. C. Trueblood, Elocution and Oratory............ 250 00
Professor J. C. Rolfe, Latin.............................   250 oo
'Professor R. M. Wenley, Philosophy......................... 250 oo
Professor J. A. Woodburn (Indiana State University), History. 250 oo
Professor F. M. Taylor, Political Economy.................. 200 oo
Professor A. S. Whitney, Pedagogy......................... 200 oo
Professor  J.  O.  Reed,  Physics...............................  200.00
Professor  J.  H.  Drake,  Latin.................0................ 00 
Professor W. H. Sherzer (Michigan State Normal College),
Geology and Physical Geography...................... 200 oo
Assistant Professor J. L. Markley, Mathematics.............. 240 oo
Assistant Professor Moritz Levi, Spanish and Italian........... 60 oo
Assistant Professor George Rebec, Psychology................  60 00
Assistant Professor Moses Gomberg, Chemistry............... 240 oo
Assistant Professor J. R. Effinger, French.................... 240 oo
Assistant Professor K. E. Guthe, Physics.................... 240 oo
Professor AT. H. Munson      (Winona, Minn., State Normal),
Zoology............................................. 240  oo
Instructor George 0. Higley, Chemistry...................... 180 oo
Instructor D. M. Lichty, Chemistry..........................  80 oo
Instructor Tobias Diekhoff, German......................... 180 oo
Instructor J. A. C. Hildner, German........................ 120 00
Instructor J. AW. Glover, Mathematics....................... 180 oo
Instructor H. J. Goulding, Drawing..........................  8  o00
Instructor W. VW. Florer, German............................  20 00
Instructor E. C. Sullivan, Chemistry......................... 150 oo
Instructor H. A. Sanders, Greek............................ 180 00
Instructor H. M. Randall, Physics........................... 150 00oo
Instructor  J. M. Thomas, English............................    oo  oo
Instructor F. L. Dunlap, Chemistry......................    150 oo
Instructor C. B. Teetzel (Mich. State Normal College), Physical
Training............................................   50 oo
Total.................................  $6,540  oo




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1902.                      29
The following persons are provisionally appointed to give instruction
in the University during the Summer Session, on condition that any
course which is not elected by at least six students shall be withdrawn:
Instructor Geo. P. Burns, Botany.
Instructor C. L. Meader, Latin.
Instructor J. C. Thorpe, Mechanical Engineering.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, it was voted that students
of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, who
are pursuing a combined course, and, in consequence, are registered at the same time in one of the professional departments,
are required to pay the annual fee due from students of such
professional departments.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Friday, March 14, at
o o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




MARCH MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,  l
ANN ARBOR, March 14, 1902.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at I0o o'clock
A. M.
Present, Regents Fletcher, Butterfield, Hill, Lawton, Dean,
Sutton, and Carey.
Absent, Regent Farr.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Dean, approved and ordered printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the standing committees of the Board
for consideration.
Professor Cooley reported that the Engineering Laboratory
had received from Tate, Jones & Co., of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, a gift of one of their Fuel Oil Burners for experimental
use in the laboratory. The Board requested the President to
make official acknowledgment of this gift, with the thanks of
the Board.
On motion of Regent Hill, Miss Frances J. Dunbar was appointed Assistant in Zoology in place of Mr. George Wagner,
resigned. Salary at the rate of $I50.oo per year.
Professor Stanley reported that Mr. J. C. Henderson, of the
Ann Arbor Organ Co., had presented the Museum with a very
unique and valuable specimen of one of the earliest makes of
upright pianos in France.
On motion of Regent Hill, the President was asked to transmit the thanks of the Board to Mr. Henderson.
Alderman Hamilton addressed the Board in relation to paving State Street.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the Board went into executive session to confer with the Auditor General..
On motion of Regent Sutton, the Board took a recess until
2 o'clock P. M.
31




32


3MARlCH MEETING. 1902.


AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. M.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the course in the Training
School for Nurses, in both Hospitals, was extended to three
years, to take effect July I, next. The salary to be $50, $75, and
$75 per year.
The following report of the Finance Committee was adopted
by the full vote of the Board:
" Your committee, to whom was referred the memorial for
the establishment of a Graduate School as a separate department, beg to report that it has considered the same, along with
the protest lodged against such action, and the committee recommend that no action be taken."
The Treasurer reported that Mr. E. B. Robinson, of Detroit,
desired to make a loan of $2,500.00 on a house and lot on Second
Avenue, Detroit.   On motion of Regent Hill, the matter was
placed in the hands of the President and the Secretary to investigate, and if satisfied that the security is ample, to make the loan
from the gift funds of the University.
The following communication from     the Dean of the Engineering Department was submitted by Regent Dean, and on his
motion the recommendations therein contained were approved
by the full vote of the Board.
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Feb, 15, I902.
To THE HONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS, UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN:
Gentlemien.' In carrying out the arrangement for work in the summer session between the third and fourth years of the engineering
course, which was proposed in a memorial addressed to your honorable
body last year, and was sanctioned by you, the arrangement of work is
as follows:
For the Civil Engineering students, survey and field work.
For the Mechanical Engineering students, dynamo electrical machinery, and a course in the designing of boilers and engines.
For the Electrical Engineering students, a course in foundry work,
and in design of boilers and engines.
For the Chemical Engineering students, a course in dynamo electrical machinery.
The Faculty of the Department of Engineering at their meeting
January 23, resolved: that the Board of Regents be asked formally to
require for graduation this six weeks of work during one summer, out
of term time, for which not to exceed six hours' credit shall be given
toward the requirements for graduation, and that this summer work
shall be without increase of the present dues paid by the student.




MA-RCH MEETING, J902.


33


An appropriation of $50o.oo for services of an instructor to take
charge of the field work for the Civil Engineering students was made
in the last budget. It is desired that an appropriation of $150.oo  for
the instructor who takes charge of the course in design of boilers and
engines, and of $200.0o-for the junior professor who will conduct the
course in dynamo electrical machinery should also be made. And in
connection with request for this appropriation, I would respectfully inquire whether such expense will be properly chargeable to the budget
for I901-2, or for I902-3.  The items just enumerated have been
placed in the list of requests made by the Department of Engineering
for the year to come.           Respectfully submitted,
CHAS. E. GREENE, Dear,
On motion of Regent Hill, the Secretary was requested to
send the departmental requests for the budget of next year to
the chairmen of the standing committees of the Board, who will
examine the same, and report to the Finance Committee their
recommendations covering the needs of the departments they
represent.
On motion of Regent Hill, Regent Carey was added to the
Finance Committee for the present year.
Regent Fletcher submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted by the unanimous vote of the Board:
Resolvcd, That the Board accept the plans and specifications
submitted by Mason & Kahn, architects, for a new Engineering Building, provided a contract can be made for the work, at
not more than $I20.000, and that the Secretary notify the
Auditor General that the Board has set apart $I20,000 for said
Engineering Building, and $Io,ooo for repairs in the Barbour
Gymnasium.
[In compliance with the foregoing resolution of the Board,
the Secretary addressed the following letter to the Auditor
General:
HON. PERRY F. POWERS, AUDITOR GENERAL, LANSING, MICH.:
Dear Sir: I am directed by the Board of Regents of the University
of Michigan to transmit to your office a copy of the following resolution
introduced by Regent Fletcher, and passed by the unanimous vote of the
Board at their meeting held on the I4th inst.:
Resolved, That the Board accept the plans submitted by Mason &
Kahn, architects, of Detroit, for a new Engineering Building for this
University, and that the sum of $I20,000 be and is hereby set aside for
the construction of said building, and also the sum of $io,ooo for
repairs in the Barbour Gymnasium; and that the Secretary be requested
to notify the Auditor General's office of this action of the Board.
Yours truly,
JAMES H. WADE, Sec'V.]




34


3MAIICHI MIEETING, 1902.


On motion of Regent Fletcher; the Secretary was directed to
advertise for bids for the construction of the Palmer Ward,
according to the plans and specifications prepared by John Scott,
architect, said bids to be submitted to the Board at the next
meeting.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the report of the State
Accountant, showing the result of an examination made by him
of the books of the Treasurer of the University, was referred to
the Finance Committee.
Professor Demmon, who had been at work for nearly three
years compiling a new General Catalogue of the Alumni of the
University, reported that he had completed the work, and a
copy of the book had been placed on the Regents' desks for
inspection.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, it was voted that the
thanks of the Board are due to Professor Demmon for his untiring efforts to produce a book of rare value and excellence.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted that $5,000 be
set apart for the purpose of making certain changes in the Boiler
House at University Hospital.
On motion of Regent Hill, it was voted that holders of
fellowships and scholarships are required to pay the matriculation fee (if not already paid), the annual fee, the diploma
fee, laboratory expenses, and similar charges, the same as other
students of the department in which their work lies.
Regent Lawton presented and read the following communication from the Hon. D. M. Ferry:
DETROIT, MICH., March 12, I902.
To THE HONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN:
Having learned that the athletic field of the University now in
use is inadequate for the outdoor recreation and exercise of the students as a body, and also that a more accessible field for the regular
University games is desirable, I am pleased to make the following proposal to this Honorable Board, trusting thus to meet the need stated:
I will purchase and present to the University of Michigan, if this
Board shall be pleased to accept the same upon the conditions herein
named, the following described lands to be used for athletic purposes in
addition to and in connection with the present grounds, known as Regents' Field:
Description: The lands lying between the north boundary of the
present athletic field and Edwin Street, and bounded on the east by




MARCH MEETING, 1902.                  35
South State Street, and on the west by a line parallel to, andforty-five rods west of, State Street.  D. M. FERRY,
Per D. M. F., Jr.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the Board requested the President to convey to Mr. Ferry their acceptance of his gift, and
their high appreciation of his great generosity whereby it is
now made possible for the whole student body to get much
needed outdoor exercise; also, that hereafter the entire field
shall be known as the Dexter M. Ferry Athletic Field. And
that the board of control of athletics shall have the charge of
said grounds.
On motion of Regent Hill, it was voted that the dwelling
house on the new athletic field be turned over to the Board of
Control, for athletic purposes, until further action.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Friday, April ii, I902.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




APRIL MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,     }
ANN ARBOR, April 23, 1902.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at IO oclock A. M.
Present, Regents Fletcher, Farr, Lawton, Dean, Sutton, and
Carey.
Absent, Regents Butterfield and Hill.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Dean, approved and ordered printed.
Communications which     had   reached the President were
placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the Board for
consideration.
The President presented and read the following communication from Librarian R. C. Davis:
ANN ARBOR, MIICH., April 22, 1902.
To PRESIDENT ANGELL:
I have the pleasure of reporting to you, for the consideration of
the Board of Regents, the following gifts to the Library:
I. From Yale University, a set of the Yale Bicentennial Publications, 29 Vols.
I quote the letter in which the gift is announced:YALE UNIVERSITY,
SECRETARY'S OFFICE.
NEW HAVEN, CONN., March I8, 1902.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
Gentlemen: The President and Fellows of Yale University offer for
the kind acceptance of the University of Michigan, the series of publications issued in connection with the Bicentennial Anniversary of the
University, a list of which is here inclosed.
Twenty-three volumes are now forwarded; the remainder will follow later.            Very truly yours,
ANSON PIIELPS STOKES, Jr., Secretary.
2. From Mr. William J. Howard, of Toronto, Canada, eighty volumes relating to the Society of Friends.
The standard histories of the Society are represented in this collection, and the writings of the principal exponents of its doctrines.
Our books of this kind were very few, and this addition to the number is highly appreciated. Mr. Howard presents them as a memorial
of his late wife, Annie Halleck Kelsey Howard, a graduate of the
Law Class of 1880.                 Very respectfully,
RAYMOND C. DAVIS, Librarian.
37




38


APuRIL MEETING, 1902.


On motion, the Board requested the President to transmit
their cordial thanks to the President and Fellows of Yale University, and to Mr. William J.- Howard, of Toronto, Canada, for
their valuable gifts to the Library of this University.
The following communication from Professor Gabriel Campbell, of Dartmouth College, was presented and read to the
Board:
DARTMOUTH COLLEGE, HANOVER, N. H., April 12, 1902.
HON. JAMES H. WADE, SECRETARY OF BOARD OF REGENTS, UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN:
Dear Sir: Accompanying this letter I forward to you, by express,
the well-worn family Bible of Chancellor Tappan, the first President
of Michigan University.
During my student life in Germany, above thirty years ago, I conferred with President Tappan, who was then a resident of Frankfurt
on the Main, in regard to the purchase of his private library for the
University of Minnesota, where at that time I held the chair of Philosophy. Subsequently, as result of correspondence with Dr. Tappan, and
with Judge Beakes, of Ann Arbor, his financial agent, the governing
Board of Minnesota University requested me to proceed to Ann Arhor,
and examine the books.
President Tappan's library of nearly 3,000 volumes had been carefully stored in one of the business houses on Main Street. Mr. Vance,
the obliging custodian, opened the boxes and afforded every facility to
ascertain the character of the collection, which proved to be made up
of choice editions, evidencing scholarly taste and wide learning in the
selection.
The offer for the library made by the Minnesota Regents was accepted. The books arrived in due time, and became the " Tappan Collection" in the Minnesota State University library. This was perhaps
a natural sequence of the opening of the Minnesota University in 1867,
when, following the recommendation of our Michigan President, which
Minnesota had requested, two Michigan graduates were appointed to organize the University in that State.
Finding that the Tappan family Bible contained the record of marriage and of the birth and death of his children, together with scripture and poetic quotations, in President Tappan's own handwriting, I
secured the volume for my personal possession; and it has been preserved as one of my most precious treasures.
I am assured, however, that the other Alumni and friends of my
Alma Mater would prize highly this sacred memorial. It is therefore
a deep and genuine pleasure to forego my own personal claim, and to
entrust through you to the Governing Board of the University this center, divinely inspired, of the, home life of one of the noblest of men,
who won for himself the profound admiration, the worshipful affection
of a host of youthful hearts; and it proves to be an undiminishing love.
You will pardon me then, if I entreat the honorable members of
the Regents' Board, and as well those who in the coming years shall pre



APR IL, MEETING, 1902.


39


side in their places, to conserve with a thoughtful care this hallowed
representative of the early days.
To the youth of the generations yet to be, even the broken binding
may testify eloquently of the unbroken devotion to God's eternal truth
of him who led our beloved Michigan Alma Mater to her recognized
place, foremost among the State Universities.
Please present to President Angell and the other gentlemen of the
Board of Regents, assurances of my high esteem. And may a gracious
Heaven continue to bless my Alma Mater.
Very sincerely yours,
GABRIEL CAMPBELL, '65.
Professor of Philosophy.
Regent Farr moved that the President be requested to convey
to Professor Campbell the grateful acknowledgments of the
Board for his gift of the family Bible of that great and good
man, Chancellor Tappan, and that the book be placed in the
General Library for safe-keeping. It was so ordered.
Aldermen Hamilton and Coon addressed the Board in relation to the paving of State Street. They stated that the city
would pave all street crossings, and pay twenty per cent of all
paving between streets, and that the total cost to the University would not exceed $5000.00 for asphalt blocks.
The Board voted unanimously to direct the Secretary to sign
the petition for the Board, asking the City Council to do the
work.
Regent Dean moved that $250.00 be appropriated for the
purpose of printing special announcements in the Literary Department. It was so ordered by a full vote.
On motion of Regent Lawton, $73.00 was added to the budget of the Laboratory of Materia Medica in the Department of
Medicine and Surgery, to cover a bill of goods of equal amount
which was received too late to be paid from the budget of last
year, and a corresponding amount from last year's budget was
turned back into the general fund.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery was conferred upon Frederick Aloysius Gill, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Dental Surgery.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was directed to
advertise for bids for the erection and completion of the new Engineering Building, as soon as he is notified by Professor Cooley
and Mr. Reeve that the specifications are completed, and that
the bids be returnable on the first day of June next.




40


A PRIL MEE'TfNG, 1902.


On motion of Regent Dean, the Senior Literary Class was
granted permission to erect a drinking fountain on the campus
as a class memorial.
On motion of Regent Farr, it was voted to offer par for
$35,000 Van Buren County four-per-cent bonds, as an investment for a part of the trust funds of the University.
The Board then took a recess until 2 o'clock p. m.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. M.
The following bids were received for the erection and completion of the Dr. A. B. Palmer Memorial Ward, for which the
sum of $20,000 was named in the will of the late Love M.
Palmer:
Geering   Bro's,  D etroit......................................$27,660
A. Hild  &  Son, Detroit..................................... 25,975
Henry  Carew   &  Co.,  Detroit.............................  26,900
Koch  Bro's,  Ann  Arbor....................................  24,395
Regent Fletcher moved that the Board accept the bid of Koch
Bro's, and the Secretary be authorized to execute the contract;
and that the Board appropriate the sum of $4,395.00 to supplement the bequest and cover the cost of the building.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes: Regents Fletcher, Lawton, Dean, Sutton, Carey.
Nays: Regent Farr.
Professor M. L. D'Ooge, executor of the Palmer estate,
turned over to the Board $20,000, being a part of the amount
bequeathed to the University by the late Love M. Palmer. On
motion of Regent Farr the Secretary and Treasurer were directed to receipt to the executor for the amount named above.
Regent Lawton moved that eight additional nurses be allowed
University Hospital. Regent Farr moved to amend by making
it four. There being no second to the original motion, the
amendment prevailed, and the Superintendent was directed to
provide for housing them outside the Hospital at a cost of not
exceeding one dollar per week, each.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Board adjourned to Thursday,
May I5, at Io o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




MAY MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, MICH., May 15, 1902. 
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at 10 o'clock
A. M., full Board present.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Lawton, approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry communications which had reached the President
were placed in the hands of the standing committees of the
Board for consideration.
Regent Fletcher moved to accept the proposal of the ShawKendall Engineering Company of Toledo, Ohio, to furnish one
66-inch, I6-foot, horizontal, tubular boiler for the Hospital plant,
as per specifications, with fronts to match those of the other
boilers in the same plant, for the sum of $I,040. The motion was
carried by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, an appropriation of $5,000
was made for the purchase of pipe, wire, sinks, and plumbing
goods for the new Medical Building, by the full vote of the
Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was authorized
to pay John Scott & Co. the sum of $731.85, for services as
Architect of the Palmer Ward, and $232.11 for the finish of the
Woman's Building.
By a unanimous vote of the Board, the Secretary was authorized to pay the Ridgway Dynamo and Engine Company
$5,000 on account, for engine and dynamo furnished the University.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the Medical Committee of
the Bo'ard were requested to investigate and ascertain the maximum number of patients each Hospital will accommodate, and
report at the next meeting of the Board..
On motion of Regent Hill, Assistant Professor Pillsbury was
41




42


MAY MEETING, 1902.


granted leave of absence from June 2 to the close of the college
year, for the purpose of going abroad.
On the recommendation of Professor E. D. Campbell, Mr.
Max Emil Mueller was appointed as holder of the Fellowship
in Gas Engineering supported by the Michigan Gas Association, for one year.
Librarian Davis reported that the Library had recently received from Dr. H. S. Jewett, of Dayton, Ohio, nineteen volumes
of rare and valuable miscellaneous books.
On motion of Regent Sutton, the President was requested to
transmit the cordial thanks of the Board to Dr. H. S. Jewett,
for his interest in, and valuable gift to, the Library of this University.
On motion of Regent Hill, the leave of absence of Instructor
J. S. P. Tatlock was extended for one year, to enable him to
complete his work for the Doctor's degree at Harvard University.
The President presented and read the following communication from Professor J. O. Reed:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., April 2I, 1902.
PRESIDENT JAMES B. ANGELL, ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN:
Dear Sir: I am requested by my brother-in-law, Dr. Harry McNeal,
to present to the University Museum a collection of South American
birds and butterflies, to be known as the Dr. Jessie Ruby McNeal
Collection.
Dr. Harry McNeal graduated from the Literary Department of this
University in 1883, and from the Medical Department in 1900. His
wife, Dr. Jessie Ruby McNeal, graduated from the Literary Department in I895, and from the Medical Department in I897. During the
year 1901, Dr. McNeal and wife spent several months in travel in Europe
and in South America. On their homeward voyage, Dr. Jessie Ruby
McNeal was lost overboard from the steamship Belgenland, off Nantucket Shoals, November 24, 1901.
The collection of birds comprises over one hundred specimens,
representing some fifty different species. These were collected and prepared by Dr. McNeal and his wife during their stay in Paraguay. The
collection of butterflies numbers some two hundred and forty specimens,
representing about --  species. These were collected and prepared for
Dr. McNeal by Dr. William Foster, of Asuncion, Paraguay.
Very respectfully,
JOHN 0. REED.
On motion of Regent Carey, the President was requested to
convey to Dr. Harry McNeal the cordial thanks of the Board
f   his gift of this valuable collecti n to the Museum.




MAY MEETING, 1902.


43


Regent Lawton presented and read the following communication from the Superintendent of University Hospital:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., May 14, 1902.
MR. JAS. H. WADE, SEC'Y BOARD OF REGENTS, CITY:
Dear Sir: The following nurses have successfully passed their examinations, entitling them to diplomas in the Training School for
Nurses. Will you kindly bring this matter to the attention of the Board
at the meeting to-morrow, that the diplomas may be authorized them,
as the graduating exercises are set for June 4?
Lurain Smith Tracy,
Fleda Gertrude Dowell,
Zada Chase,
Inez Bates,
Minnie L. Mead,
Sarah Cooley Swift,
Helen Christine Hirth,
Inez Barton,
Ruth Elizabeth Ellsworth,
Zola Amanda Bailey,
Nan F. Johnston,
May Elmina Williams,
Elsie Calkins,
Addie Wood,
Mabel Adelphia Williams.
Respectfully,
E. S. GILMORE, Supt.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the President and Secretary
were authorized to issue the proper certificates of graduation,
and attach the seal of the University thereto.
The President presented and read the following communication from Dr. Eliza M. Mosher:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., March 14, 1902.
TO THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS, UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN:
Gentlemen: Having completed the work of organization which I
left my chosen profession six years ago to undertake, and believing that
another can now be found to take the position which I have the honor
to hold in the University, I hereby respectfully tender my resignation,
to take effect October i, 1902.     With great respect,
ELIZA M. MOSHER.
On motion of Regent Hill, the resignation of Dr. Mosher
was accepted.
On motion, the Board adjourned to to-morrow morning, at
9 o'clock.




44                     MAY MEETING, 1902.
MORNING SESSION.
The Board assembled at 9 o'clock.
The Board then took up the budget, item by item, and after
careful consideration it was approved as follows:
BUDGET.
Estimated receipts for the year I902-1903.
One  fourth  mill tax.....................................  $394,500.00
Students'  fees..........................................  202,500.00
Interest  on  endowment.................................  38,500.00
Homceopathic  act.......................................  6,ooo.oo
Summer   Hospitals  act..................................  3,000.00
Receipts from University Hospital.......................  30,000.00
Receipts from Homceopathic Hospital...................  10,000.00
Receipts from  sale of Dental supplies.................    4,000.00
Receipts from Summer school............................    5,500.00
Receipts  from  Diplomas.................................   7,000.00
Receipts from sale of General Catalogue.................   2,500.00
Interest  on  Deposits....................................,000.00
Earnings of Engineering Shops.........................       400.00
$704,900.00
Estimated Expenditures.
Department of Greek......................... $      I00.00
Half time of one Instructor........................      600.00
Department of Latin...........................      200.00
Half time of one Instructor.......................       600.00
One set of Greek and Roman Portraits....      o     o0......  100.00
Department of German...............................          I00.00
Increase of Prof. Winkler's salary.................      500.00
Promotion of Instructor Diekhoff.................        400.00
Department  of  French.................................
Promotion  of  Prof.  Levi......................     400.00
Department  of  English.................................     50.00
Increase of Instructor Abbott's salary...............    30.00
Department of Mathematics............................
Instructor A. G. Hall to return at former salary, $1,200,
one Instructor at $900 to be dropped..............     300.00
Department of Political Economy........................
Duplicate  Books....................................     200.00
Additional Lecturers................................     500.00
Department  of  Pedagogy..............................
Promotion of Prof. Whitney.........................      500.00
Department of Geology.................................      115.00
Specimens,  $50;  Maps,  $50........................     Io0.00
Department of Botany..............................       558.00
Microscopes.......................................      50.00
Promotion of Assistant Burns......................  300.00
Botanical  Garden.................................   300.00




MAY MEETING, 1902.                          45
Forestry..........................................      475.00
Department of Zoology.................................       8oo.oo
Other apparatus...................................        300.00
Promotion  of Assistant Pearl........................    400.00
Department of Philosophy..............................       500.00
Department of Music..................................        200.00
Increase  of  Prof. Stanley's  salary...................  200.00
Department of  History.................................       50.00
Increase of Instructor Cross's salary................    300.00
Duplicate  books....................................     200.00
Department of American History........................        50.00
One  Assistant......................................     500.00
Duplicate  books....................................     200.00
Department  of  Law.....................................   1,200.00
Increase of Professor Mechem's salary..............    I,000.00
Increase of Professor Wilgus's salary..............     200.00
Expenses of delegate to Bar Association..............     50.00
Guarantee fund. Law Journal.......................       800.00
Clerical help for Secretary..........................     50.00
One Assistant Professor............................    1,600.00
Deficit in Library budget...........................     220.00
Special  lectures  on  Irrigation......................  200.00
Increase of Instructor Dwyer's salary...............     300.00
Increase of Instructor Rood's salary................     300.00
Department of Engineering, Dean's Office..............      350.00
Secretary's  office...................................    50.00
Professor Greene...................................       95.00
Department of Civil Engineering, Geodesy, and Surveying..     750.00
Steel tapes.......................................         40.00
Models and cases, Professor Denison................0. 0oo.00
Instructor, summer work............................      I50.00
One Instructor, if needed...........................     900.o0
Promotion of Professor Campbell....................      500.00
Case of Pigeon Holes to be made in shop..........
Mechanical Engineering................................       710.00
Increase of Instructor Anderson's salary............     300.00
Actual expenses of Instructor on tour of inspection, not
to   exceed........................................   100.00
Marine Engineering................................      177.00
Electrical Engineering.............................      640.00
Instructor, summer work...........................       200.00
One 20-horse power motor.........................        400.00
Promotion of Instructor Wrentmore.................       400.00
Engineering   Shops...................................   I,6oo.oo
Increase of four shop Instructors, twenty-five cents per
day  for  one  year  only...........................   300.00
Department  of  Semitics................................     I00.00
Museum..............................................       500.00
Appointment  committee................................     300.00
Printing, postage, etc.............................      150.00




46                    MAY MEETING, 1902.
Observatory...........................................     240.00
General Library...............................535.00
Salary of Miss G. M. Lane........................       400.00
Salary of Miss A. Belser..........................      400.00
One sewing-machine for bindery...................     140.00
Additional assistance.............................      750.00
Additional  cataloguing............................    500.00
Cases  m ade  in   shop................................
Waterman Gymnasium..................................        300.00
Increase of Director Fitzpatrick's salary.............  500.00
Barbour  Gymnasium...................................  200.00
Increase  of  Dr. Synder's  salary....................  30 00
O ne   assistant......................................  aoo.oo
Mineralogy............................................       50.00
Chemical Laboratory...................................    12,876.18
Deduct $2,500 if Physiological Chemistry is transferred
to   H ygiene......................................
Increase of Instructor Sullivan's salary.............   300.00
D uty,  if   needed..................................   3 0.00
General  Chem istry......................................
Increase of Instructor Hulett's salary..............    300.00
Department of Physics..................................,I00.00.
Dental  Department.....................................   5,000.00
Quiz Master.......................................      300.00
Additional Demonstrator............................     200.00
One  Porcelain  Furnace.............................    50.00
Medical  Department....................................  800.00
Increase of Novy's salary...........................    500.00
Additional Janitor in new building.................
Laboratory of Hygiene.................................    2,500.00
Assistant for  water  analyses..........................  30 00
Twelve  m icroscopes................................    700.00.
Twelve balances...................................      360.00
One assistant in Bacteriology, in place of two resigned.
Anatomical material................................    2,000.00
Anatomical Laboratory.................................      435.00oo
Histology......................................7....        700.00
Fifteen   microscopes.............................   60.oo
Ophthalmology......................................    50.00
Materia Medica.......................................       450.00
Additional equipment...............................     325.00
Theory and Practice....................................      250.00
Special  apparatus..................................    365.00
Pathology............................................      750.00
Surgical Laboratory and Clinic..........................    577-00
One assistant.....................................      I00.00
Dermatology......................................            50.00
Diseases of women and children.........................     225.00
Laboratory assistant........................... 500.00
Instruments.....................................        75.00




MAY MEETING, 1902.                         47
Physiology............................................     600.00
Increase of Assistant Bowen's salary................    400.00
Electrotherapeutics..................................   4I5.00
Nervous Diseases......................................     197.00
University  Hospital.....................................  30,000.00
One  head  nurse....................................    540.00
Apparatus.........................................     400.00
Assistant head nurse to receive $40 per month during
the absence of the head nurse.....................
Homceopathic Hospital..................................  4,000.00
Homceopathic   College..................................    500.00
Prof. T. C. Trueblood, to attend debates and oratorical contests, not to exceed..............................    I00.00
Printing the proceedings of Schoolmasters' Club.......... 70.00
Books  for  Libraries..................................  15,000.00
Contingent expenses....................................   I0,000.00
Repairs............................................  0,000.00
Fuel................................................   25,000.00
Lights................................................   4,500.00
Postage..............................................    3,000.00
M iscellaneous  printing..................................  3,500.00
Sum m er  School........................................  8,500.00
Carpenter  Shop  supplies................................  1,500.00
School  inspection.......................................   700.00
Commencement   expenses................................       850.00
Diplomas.............................................      1,200.00
Care  of  team s..........................................  1,200.00
W ater   supply..........................................  3,000.00
Electrical  supplies......................................  2,000.00
H eating   supplies.......................................  2,000.00
Increase  of  G. D. W illcox's  salary......................  I50.00
Increase of Fred East's salary..........................    I00.00
Increase of George Lutz's salary........................     o00.00
Increase of E. C. Burdick's salary.......................   I50.00
Increase of R. Jones's salary...........................    I00.00
General  pay   roll........................................  365,42I.00
$568,226. i8
At the last meeting of the Board it was voted that the University offer par for $35,000 Van Buren County 4-per-cent
bonds, as an investment for a part of the gift funds of the
University. Regent Farr reported that the bid was accepted,
and the University was in possession of $35,000 of said bonds.
The Board voted to request Regent Farr to go to Omaha,
Nebraska, and look over the property of the University in that
city, with power to make such repairs as in his judgment may
seem wise.




48


MAY MEETING, 1902.


Regents Farr and Hill were requested to investigate, and report on the advisability of the University investing a part of its
gift funds in St. Louis Elevator bonds.
The following promotions, appointments, and re-appointments were made by the unanimous vote of the Board, to take
effect Oct. I, next:
PROMOTIONS.
Acting Professor Max Winkler, Ph.D., to Professor of the
German Language and Literature, salary............... $2,500.00
Junior Professor Edward D. Campbell, B.S., to Professor of
Chemical Engineering, salary......................... 2,500.00
Junior Professor Allen S. Whitney, A.B., to Professor of
Pedagogy and Inspector of Schools, salary..............  2,500.00
Assistant Professor Moritz Levi, A.B., to Junior Professor of
French,  salary.......................................  2,000.00
Instructor C. G. Wrentmore, M.S., to Assistant Professor of
Descriptive Geometry and Drawing, salary..............  i,600.00
Instructor T. Diekhoff, Ph.D., to Assistant Professor of
German, salary......................................,6oo.oo
REAPPOINTMENT OF ASSISTANT PROFESSORS FOR THREE YEARS.
J. L. Markley, Ph.D., Mathematics, salary................. $,6oo.oo
J. O. Schlotterbeck, Ph.D., Pharmacognosy and Botany, salary. I,6oo.oo
E. W. Dow, A.B., History, salary.........................  I,6oo.oo
C. H. Cooley, Ph.D., Sociology, salary...................... I,6oo.oo
M. Gomberg, Sc.D., Organic Chemistry, salary..............,60o.oo
J. A. Fairlie, Ph.D., Administrative Law, salary............,6oo.oo
REAPPOINTMENT OF ASSISTANT PROFESSOR FOR SHORTER TIME.
S. L. Bigelow, Ph.D., General Chemistry, until Professor Freer
returns, salary.................................... $1,200.00
REAPPOINTMENT OF INSTRUCTORS FOR THREE YEARS.
C. L. Meader, Ph.D., Latin, salary......................... $1,200.00
A. G. Hall, Ph.D., Mathematics, salary..................... 1,200.00
E. C. Sullivan, Ph.D., Analytical Chemistry, salary.......... 1,200.00
A. L. Cross, Ph.D., History, salary......................... I,200.00
G. A. Hulett, Ph.D., General Chemistry, salary..............  1,200.00
H. C. Anderson, M.E., Mechanical Engineering, salary....... I,200.00
REAPPOINTMENT FOR ONE YEAR.
W. L. Miggett, B.S., Supt. of Engineering Shops, salary..... $,600.00
INSTRUCTORS REAPPOINTED FOR ONE YEAR.
S. J. Holmes, Ph.D., Zoology, salary.......................  $900.00o
J. Dieterle, A.B., German. salary.........................900..00
Alice  L. Hunt, Drawing, salary............................  900.00
Frederick L. Dunlap. Sc.D., Analytical Chemistry, salary....  900.00
Edward B. Escott. M.S.. Mathematics, salary..............   900.00




MAY MEETING, 1902.


49


Wm. Marshall, M.S., Mathematics, salary..................  900.00
Herbert D. Carrington, Ph.D., German, salary..............  900.o
Carl F. A. Lange, A.M., German, salary....................  00oo.oo
Colman D. Frank, Ph.B., French and Spanish, salary........  900.00
Charles A. Davis, A.M., Forestry, salary.................... 00.00
Harrison M. Randall, Ph.M., Physics, salary................  900.00
Joseph M. Thomas, Ph.B., English, salary...................  900.00
Wm. E. Bohn, A.M., English, salary.......................  900.00
Winthrop H. Chenery, A.M., French, salary.................  900.00
Clarence B. Morrill, B.L., English, salary.................  '900.00
Carl E. Eggert, Ph.D., German, salary...........0...........  g00o.
John W. Scholl, A.B., German, salary....................   900.00
Fred M. Green, B.S., Civil Engineering, salary.............  900.00
Royal A. Abbott, Ph.B., English, salary.....................  900.00
John C. Thorpe, B.S., Mechanical Engineering, salary........  900.00
INSTRUCTORS APPOINTED FOR ONE YEAR.
Duane E. Stuart, Ph.D., Greek and Latin, salary........... $I,200.00
Raymond Pearl, A.B., Zoology, salary.....................  900.00
OTHER APPOINTMENTS. FOR ONE YEAR.
H. S. Smalley, A.B., Assistant in Economics, salary........  $500.00
D. W. Springer, B.S., Lecturer on Science of Accounts, salary  500.00
On motion, the Board adjourned to Tuesday, June 17, at
TO o'clock A. M                     JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




JUNE MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, June 17, I902. S
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at Io o'clock
A. M.; full Board present except Regents Butterfield and Sutton.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Lawton, approved and ordered
printed.
Communications which had reached the President were referred to the standing committees of the Board for consideration.
The Zoological Department gave notice that a gift of $50
was received from Mr. Bryant Walker, of Detroit, to pay the
tuition of a student during the summer session, at the Marine
Biological Laboratory, at Woods Hole, Mass.
On motion, the President was requested to transmit the
thanks of the Board to Mr. Walker.
The President presented and read the following communication from Professor Rolfe:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., June 5, I902.
To THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
Dear Sirs: Having accepted a professorship of Latin in the University of Pennsylvania, I hereby offer you my resignation of my professorship in the University of Michigan, to take effect at the end of
the present academic year.
I wish to thank you for the favors which I have received from
you during my connection with the University of Michigan, and to
assure you that I shall always feel a strong personal interest in the
fortunes of the University.    Respectfully yours,
JOHN C. ROLFE.
On motion of Regent Hill, the resignation of Professor
Rolfe was accepted.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the consideration of the bids
on the Engineering Building was made the special orfder for
2 o'clock P. M.
51




52


2JUNE MEETING, 1902.


Communications were received from the several Faculties,
recommending candidates for the degrees to be conferred on
commencement day, and on motion of the chairmen of the
appropriate committees, the recommendations were approved
and the degrees ordered to be conferred as indicated in the lists
given below, by the full vote of the Board:
CANDIDATES FOR DEGREES.
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
BACHELOR OF ARTS.


Hugh E. Agnew,
Lucius Ephraim Allen,
Clara Janet Allison,
Francis Miller Bacon, D.D.S.,
Mary Jeannette Bain,
Ella May Baldwin,
Frederick Amos Baldwin, M.D.,
Bessie Laura Barber,
Carrie Anna Barber,
Julius Earle Barton,
Edson Sunderland Bastin,
Ernest Sutherland Bates,
David Elijah Beardsley,
Beatrice Ollie Belford,
John Alonzo Bennett,
Robert Louis Benson,
Charles Lorton Best,
Ruth Ellen Blackman,
Faye Bodmer,
Jessie Partridge Boswell,
Lucy Margaret Brooksbank,
Amy Louisa Broome,
Etta Neville Brown,
Forest Buffen Harkness Brown,
Henry Jefferson Brown, Jr.,
Jesse Webster Coe Brown,
Thomas Ross Brown,
Arthur Graham Browne,
Dora Gilberg Buchhalter,
Mia Elizabeth Buckingham,
Thomas Bingham Buell, Jr.,
George Gathwaite Burns,
Philip Everette Bursley,
Chal:-s Sumner Bush,
Edith Mary Carey,


Jesse Bryant Carpenter,
Charles Howard Carrick,
Herbert Porter Carrow,
Katherine Forrest Chapman,
Clara Abigail Chase,
Adelaide Winifred Childs,
Sara Gertrude Chubb,
William Henry Harrison Clayton,
May Belle Coldren,
May Frances Conlon,
Vera Nancy Connor,
Otis Merriam Cope,
Frank William Copley,
Lizzie May Corey, B.S., Olivet College,
John Francis Cotter,
Granville Malcom Cox,
John Hunt Crosby,
Frederick William Cummer,
Edna Florence Cumming,
Nora Felicia Dake,
George Green Damon.
Louise Marie Davis,
Robert Dawson,
Genevieve Decker,
Nellie Marian DeLaForce,
Mary Leone Dennis,
Henri Pierre de Pont,
Fred Gray Dewey,
Margaret Nora Dodds,
John Arnold Doelle,
Harry Shurtleff Durant,
Lucy Jeannette Durfee,
Laura Lucile Eames,
Orrin Kinsley Earl,




JUNE MEETING, 1902.


53


Gertrude Agnes Edwards,
Daniel Irvin Elder,
John Alexander Elliott,
Ralph Henry Elsworth,
Ralph David Engle,
Mary Jane Erwin,
Curtis Evans,
Teresa Elizabeth Evans,
Gertrude Claire Falk,
Florence Fallass,
Frances Indiana Farr-,
Lillian Mae Farthing,
Abram  Henry Felker,
Lauretta May Ferguson,
Mary Ellen Ferris,
Ida May Finley,
Florence Sara Fisher,
Walter Turner Fishleigh,
Richard Louis Flynn,
Walter Wright Fox,
Auguste Richard Frank,
Bernice Frederick,
Charles Edwin Galloway,
Allen Wynand Gardener,
Isabel Grace Gay,
Willis Lord Gelston,
Adelaide Gemberling,
Harry Gerber,
Sarah Eleanor Gibson,
Neva Julia Gilbert,
Selma Gilday,
Verna Elzada Glascock,
Clarence Samuel Gorsline, M.D.,
Gladys Mary Graham,
Stanley Richard Granger,
Chester Higbee Griggs,
Orel Samuel Groner, B.S., Mich.
Agricultural College,
Arthur Kent Hanchett,
Martin Hanson,
Verna Louise Harris,
Caroline Campbell Harvey,
Xenia Beatrice Haskins,
John Frederick Haussman,
Julia Wright Heath,
Earl Heenan,
Jessie Josephine Heller,
William Henry Herrnstein,
Eva Amelia Hillman,
Emma Noble Holbrook,


Ida Louise Holden,
Richard Dennis Teall Hollister,
Frank Sylvester Honberger,
Clara May Hosie,
Mary Frances Houston,
Theresa Florence Hummel,
Harriett Adelle Hurrey,
Roscoe Burhans Houston,
Anna Katherine Hutchenreuther,
Mary Florence Jacoby,
Estelle Calphernia Jenney,
Julia V. Johnson,
Roy Howard Johnson,
Thomas Henry Keeshan,
Dora lone Keller,
Mortimer Bailey Kennedy,
Fannye S. Kerngood,
Dan Arnold Killian,
Carl Otto Kloepfer,
Ezra Charles Knapp,
Amy Lydia Krolik,
Emma Ellen Larson,
Nellie Leona LaVigne,
Louise Mueller Lenhart,
David J. Levy,
Harry Martin Limbach,
Benjamin Chester Loder,
Sidney Lyon,
Edith Lucia Lyons,
Nellie Mabel McCormick,
Rosa McDougall, Ph.B., Hillsdale
College,
Mabel Estelle McGraw, A.B., Saint
Mary's College,
Carl Hugh McLean, B.Ag., Iowa
State College, Ph.M., ibid.,
Ralph Van Deman Magoffin,
Ellen Viola Maher,
Frank Burr Marsh,
Lucile Virginia Matchett,
Charles Salmon Matthews,
Howard Adleman Matthews,
Frank Mayr, Jr.,
Augusta Barbara Meiser,
Harry Miltz Mess,
Clarabel Milliman,
Owen Joseph Mink,
Jessie Jean Mitchell,
Conrad Henry Moehlman,
Edgar McClelland Moore,




54


JUNE MEETING, 1902.


Livia Annette Moore,
Grace Foote iviorehouse,
Lena Lee Morey,
Max Emil Mueller.
James Frederick Munson,
Edwin Spencer Murray,
Margaret Parthenia Murrell,
Elmer A. Myers,
Thomas Emory Newcomer,
Aaron G. Newell,
Bessie Amalie North,
Ralph Clarke Nowland,
Edwin Prime Nutting,
Bertha von Verson O'Brien,
Eleanor Taylor Oliver,
David Olson,
Josephine Gertrude Osborne,
James Edward O'Sullivan,
Christopher Gregg Parnall,
Hugh Morton Parrish,
Florence Peters,
James Taft Pilcher,
Frank Fraser Potter,
Luella Jane Read,
Robert Uriah Redpath,
Arthur Patterson Reed,
Mary Virginia Rice,
'Henry Jasper Richmond,
Clarence Bingham Ripley,
Jessie Louise Roe,
Louise Marie Roesch,
Augustus Henry Roth,
Camilla Teresa Ryan,
Ross T. Sanford,
Dorothy Mae Sass,
Philip Louis Schenk,
Edith Louise Scheurman,
George Fontaine Schmid,
Daniel Dwight Schurtz,
Ruth Gage Scott,
Laura Kinne Seeley,
Elisha Sipke Sevensma,
Mary Stewart Seymour,
Gem Sherman,
Ruth Mabel Sinclair,
Charles Herschel Sisam,
Flora Slayton,
Herbert Caldwell Smith.


Ira Orval Smith,
Etta Northey Snell,
Neil Worthington Snow,
Albert Alexander Snowdon,
Edna Gai Solis,
David Louis Stern,
Sybil Aylsworth Stewart,
Lyman Edgar Stoddard,
Carrie Lucile Stone,
Florence Elizabeth Stryker,
Alice Kerr Sturm,
Clarence Eugene Sutliff,
Cora Emma Taber,
Earle Melvin Terry,
Clarence Fred Thompson,
Edith Edna Todt,
Herbert Carmi Tooker,
Bessie Rebecca Trowbridge,
Claude Thorne Tuck,
James Turner,
Scott Turner,
Leslie Ullrich,
Clifford Brewster Upton,
Stuart Wells Utley,
Edward Curtis Van Duzer,
Charles Van Keuren,
Frank Van Vliet,
John Walter Vaughan,
Oscar William Voedisch,
Lucia Isabelle Voorhees,
Bella Jane Walker,
Mattie Louisa Waterman,
Earle Wayne Webb,
Melville Samuel Welt,
Harry Augustus Weston,
Edith Adeline Wheeler,
Milo Armstrong White,
Jacob Howard Merton Wiest,
Alice Emily Wilcox,
Merlin Ludlow Wiley,
Henry Wyatt Willis,
John Arthur Winter,
John Walter Woodhams,
Bernice Worth,
Fannie Louise Young,
Kate Blanche Young,
Marie Zimmerman.


260




JUNE MEETING, 1902.


55


MASTER OF ARTS.
Paul Agnew, B.L., Hillsdale Col- Harry Edwin King, B.L.,
lege,                       Otto Charles Marckwardt, A.B.,
Robert Earle Anthony, A.B., South- Felicitas Mareck, B.L., University
western Baptist University,     of Minnesota,
Henry Herbert Armstrong, A.B.,  John Castelar Parker, B.S.,
Lois LeBaron Avery, B.L.,       Julia Magruder Phillips, A.B.,
Samuel Bauman, B.L., German John William Scholl, A.B.,
Wallace College,            Marvin Manam Sherrick, A.B., Coe
Mary Ella Bennett, Ph.B.,           College,
John Knight Munro Berry, A.B.,  Flora Ann Sigel, Ph.B.,
Kenyon Leech   Butterfield, B.S., Mabel Alice Steward, A.B., Bates
Mich. Agr. College,             College,
Alvin Nelson Cody, B.S., Albion Mary Courtland Vanderbeek, A.B.,
College,                        Smith College,
Ruie Ann Connor, Ph.B.,         Elizabeth May Vickers, A.B., Univ.
Albert Robinson Crittenden, A.B.,   of Kansas,
David D. Culler, Ph.B., De Pauw Lawrence   Root  Waldron,   B.S.,
University,                     North Dakota Agr, College,
Colman Dudley Frank, Ph.B.,     Agnes Wegener, A.B., NorthwestFred Fullerton, B.S., Alma College,  ern University,
M.S., ibid.,                Lewis Hart Weld, A.B., UniverIda Augusta Green, Ph.B., Oberlin   sity of Rochester,
College,                    Mary Bessie Wiley, A.B., Antioch
Arthur Joseph Hoare, A.B.,          College.
Irving Benjamin Hunter, A.B.,   Jane E. Work, B.L.,
Jessie Gertrude Jennings, A.B.,  Theophil John Zimmerman, A.B.
35
DOCTOR OF SCIENCE.
Joseph William Tell Duvel, B.S., Ohio State University.        i
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY.
Edwin Newton Brown, A.M., L.L.B.,Harlow Stafford Person, A.M.,
Charles Edward Marshall, Ph.B., Raymond Haines Pond, M.S., KanYoshinaga Mikami, Keio College,     sas Agr. College,
Aura Maud Miller, A.M.,         Harrison McAllester Randall, Ph.M.
Raymond Pearl, A. B., Dartmouth                            8-304
College,
Department of Engineering.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN MARINE ENGINEERING).
Ernest Charles Stroebe.                  I
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING).
William Ninde Chaffee,          Otto Sorg Schairer, A.B.,
Adolphus Mansfield Dudley,      William Davidson Shaw,
Ray Philip Jackson,             Warren Merle Vandersluis,
Merritt Charles McNeil,         Floyd Jerome Wood.
Albert Pruessman,                                              9




JUNE MEETING, 1902.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING).


Aikman Armstrong,
Homer Britton,
Charles Vaughn Conover,
Ward Arnold Detwiler,
Robert Morrison Hall,
William Sylvester Hazelton,
Fred Merriam Hopkins,
Henry Imhof,


Roscoe Bradbury Jackson,
Edmund Peaslee Kinne,
Forest Henry Lancashire,
John Elmer Linabury,
Percy William Martin,
A.B., Ralph Moross Roosevelt,
David Dennis Starr,
Louis Napoleon Udell.


i6


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN CIVIL ENGINEERING).


Arthur Merritt Barrett,
Arthur Hart Bennett,
Chason Winslow Brooks,
John Leo Dickey,


Harry Fayette Johnson,
Roylance Russell McCloy,
Robert Hall Merrill,
Frederick Charles Wilson.


8


MASTER OF SCIENCE.
Harry J. Sproat, B.S.
CIVIL ENGINEER.
Clarence Warren Noble, B.S.,     Clarence George Wrentmore, M.S.
2-37
Department of Medicine and Surgery.
DOCTOR OF MEDICINE.
Ralph Clark Apted, B.S.,         Albert Julius Geiger,
Patience Bourdeau Archer,        Frank James Gibson,
Norman Irving Baker,             John Henry Gilpin,
Frederic Peter Benjamin Bender, John Albert Gray,
Aileen Marjory Betteys,          Arthur Emery Greene,.
Oscar Henry Bruegel,             John Goold Harvey,
Austin Frederick Burdick, A.B.,  Sidney Zell Herbert,
Charles Wesley Burgwin,          John Bennett Herff,
Charles Ernest Clark, A.B., Dart- Henry Albert Herzer, Ph.C.,
mouth College,               Harry Hiram Hewitt,
Grace M. Clarke,                 Albert Edward Hillis,
Prentiss Bowden Cleaves,         John Newell Holcomb,
Richard D. Clippinger, A.B., Ken- Walter Sanford Holmquist,
yon College,                 Leonard Counsellor Honesty, A.B.,
James Harry Cox,                 Edward Vernard Howlett,
Harold Medoris Doolittle,        Jane Catherine Hughes,
George A. Downs, B.S., Purdue Perry Robert Hungerford,
University,                  Cecil McKee Jack, Ph.B.,
William J. Durant,               Sarkis P. Jamgotchian, Ph.B., TayAlice Barker Ellsworth,             lor University,
Carl Meridith Erb,               Clyde Watkins Jump, B.S.,
William Albert Evans,            Thomas Victor Keene,
Burdette Serage Frary,           Neal Kellogg,
Clark Betern Fulkerson,          Theron Sparhawk Langford,




JUNAE MEETING, 1902.


57


George William Lawton,
Robert Owen LeBaron, B.S.,
Harold James Levis,
Francis William Lockwood,
Harry Stowe McGee,
William E. McNamara,
Russel Ross Marble, B.S., Mich.
Agr. College,
Thomas Philip Martin,
Ralph Luther Morse,
Roger Sylvester Morris, A.B.,
Harry Kavanaugh Morrison,
Frederick Henry Newberry,
Charles Frederick Nieder,
Donald Platt Osborne,
Thomas Woodburn Paton,
Charlei Lanphier Patton,
Velura Elma Powell,
Katherine Jane Rayl,
Clarence Bingham Ripley,
Clifford Clarence Robinson,
George Fred Ronneburger,
Frederick William Sauer, Ph.G.,
Northern Indiana School of
Pharmacy,


Harry Arthur Schirrmann,
Francis Lavelle Smith,
Frank Robert Spencer,
Henry Morris Spofford,
Hannah    Ophelia  Staufft,  A.M.,
Bucknell University,
Charles Edward Street, A.B., Williams College,
John Backus Taylor, B.S.,
Frank Hartwell Thomas,
Lynn J. Tuttle,
Charles Adam Ulmer,
Victor Clarence Vaughan, Jr., A.B.,
Raymond Abraham Wallace, B.S.,
Carleton College,
Charles Curtis Wallin, A.B.,
William Daniel Whitten.
Orlando Curtis Wicks,
Emily Jane Widdecombe,
Edwin Richard Williams,
Edward Augustus Willis,
Charles Webb Yarrington.      85


Department of Law.
BACHELOR OF LAWS.
Barnie Alexander,                Ben A. Bickley,
Delos Andrew Alig,               Frank Luther Bihlmeier,
Winfred Murrell Alston,          David Bonar Bird,
Edward Williams Amsden,          Clifford Alonzo Bishop,
Harry Ruthven Archbald,          Charles Fred Bliss,
Anthony Marion Arntson,          Joseph D. Blunt,
William  Fleming Atterholt, A.B., Menno Boersema,
Mount Union College,         Norman Turner Boose,
John William Bailey,             Orrin Medberry Bowen,
Nathan Edgar Bailey,             George Austin Breaden,
Orlando Herbert Baker,           Harlan Paul Briggs,
Oscar William Baker,             Roy Frank Britton,
Clarence Wesley Barber,          Archie Broomfield,
Lee Thomas Barkenbus,            Charles Eggleston Brown,
Horace Thomas Barnaby, Jr.,     John Breton Brunot,
William  Frederick Basler,       James Henry Burgess,
Frederick Barnard Bassmann,      Wilber Newton Burns,
Carter Braxton Bearss,           Harry William Cable,
Jose Eladio Benedicto, A.B., Mad- Roscoe Call,
rid University,              Ira Alexander Campbell, B.L.,
Manuel Raul Benedicto, A.B., Mad- Leander Randall Canfield, Ph.B.,
rid University,                  Ohio State University,




58


JUNE MEETING, 1902.


Harry Montague Carpenter,
Gaylord Harold Case,
Wilbur Kenyon Chamberlin,
William Newton Chambers,
Gilford Arthur Chappell,
William J. Clark,
Duane Perry Cleghorn,
Dayton W. Closser,
Charles Francis Clyne,
Joseph Robert Collier, Jr.,
Ward Burroughs Connine,
George Washington Bryant Conrad,
James Ernest Converse,
Bernard Thomas Corrigan,
Harry Crosby Cotter,
John Alexander Craig,
Charles Sylvanus Crane,
Bryant Scofield Cromer,
Avon Horace Crook,
John Dalton,
John Fletcher Davis,
Frederick Wilson Defoe,
John Lorraine DeGroot,
Marinus Den Herder,
Ernest Albert Densmore,
Andrew Donovan,
Major Alexander Downing,
Charles Bruce DuBois,
Joseph Henry Dunnebacke,
Harvey Stowe Durand,
Frank Hector Dusenbury,
Wayne Hamilton Dyer,
Frederic Jefferson Eaton,
David Garfield Einstein,
Edward Walton Eskridge,
Gordon Daniel Eveland,
Ora Earl Farnham,
Edwin Faull,
William Harry Faust, Grad. U. S.
Naval Academy,
Louis A. Feibel,
Arthur Ivan Field,
Jose Edvardo Figueras,
William Augustine Findlay,
Charles Wesley Firke,
Arthur Michael FitzGerald,
Michael G. Flaherty,
Lewis Fogle,
James Edward Forrest,
Edward Delos Foster,


Walter Seymour Foster, B.L.,
Claude Colville Frazer,
Oscar Friedrich,
Richard Gailey,
Walter Winfred Garnhart,
Frederick Gates,
Americo de J. Geigel, A.B., Institute of Porto Rico,
Myer Geleerd,
Samuel Reginald Goldsmith,
John Maxwell Gould,
William Arthur Grimshaw,
Edward T. Grua,
Rafael Guillermety, A.B., University of Barcelona,
Frederick Charles Hack, A.B., University of Chicago,
Shirley Ray Hadley,
Robert Emmet Haley,
Willard Hanson,
Kirk Hawkins,
Earl Bedford Hawks,
Asa Kingsbury Hayden,
William Lionel Heap,
Fred Edward Helwig,
Guy Josephus Hely,
George James Hibbard,
Andrew Napoleon Hildebrand,
Ivan Roy Hill,
Harry Edwin Hobart,
Clarence Sanford Holmquist,
Craig Alexander Hood,
Percy Hilton Howe,
Bert Lloyd Hubbell,
Robert Smith Hunter,
Eugene Osbert Irish, A.B., Ohio
Wesleyan  University,
Alonzo Blair Irvine,
Henry Francis Jacob, Ph.B.,
George John Jochem,
Richard Saxe Jones,
Harry Snader Kessler, B.S., University of Omaha,
Clyde William Ketcham,
Charles Harry King,
Edward Michael Kirchen,
Benjamin Hamilton Kizer,
George Henry Klein,
William Henry Klose,
James Chester Knight,




JUNE MEETING, 1902.


59


Cassius McClellan Knowles,       Carl Homer Pelton, A.B.,
Theodore Koffel,                 William  Henry Pendell,
Charles Denniston Kountz,        Fred Wirt Potter,
Walter  Emery   Lancaster,  B.S., Malcolm Barton Proper,
Knox College,                Asahel Jay Read,
Oliver Wolcott Latham,           William Addison Riner, A.B., Univ.
Thomas Ambrose Lawler,               of Southern California,
Lewis Cass Lawson, B.L., W. Va. Charles LeRoy Robertson,
University,                  Thomas Linton Robinson, Ph.B.,
Harry Oscar Ledgerwood,          Clifford Griffith Roe, B.L.,
Frank Kingsley Leighton,         Jesse Hart Root,
Lewis Walter Leisenring,         Oran Burnam Root,
George Edward Leonard,           Lloyd Alton Rowland, A.B., OuaLawrence Lafayette Lewis, B.S.,      chita College,
Northern   Indiana   Normal Amasa Miller Rust,
School,                      Arthur Houston Ryall,
Guy Carpenter Lillie,            Broussaix Sallee,
Alexander Lindsay, Jr.,          Joseph Thomas Schiappacasse, A.B.,
William Arthur Love, B.S., Knox      Saint Mary's College,
College,                     Henry Edward Schmiedeskamp,
Roy Myron Ludlum,                Clarence Childs Schmohl,
Willard Hayes Lyon,              Edwin Lee Schooler,
Donald Barnum McAlpine,          Clinton Miranda Searl,
George Frederick McAulay, A.B., William Charles Seefeld,
Ohio Normal University,      Abram William Sempliner,
Homer James McBride,             Abram Griffith Senior,
Nathan William  MacChesney,      Gustavus Adolphus Shallberg,
Charter Oak McCray,              Edgar Sharp,
John Francis McDonough,          Thomas Hall Shastid, A.B., HarWilliam Clarence McHenry,            yard University, M.D., UniChristian  Ellsworth   McNemar,      versity of Vermont, A.M.,
B.S., Eureka College,        Walter White Shaw,
Duncan McPherson, Jr.,           Lloyd Montgomery Shepard,
Margaret McVean,                 David John Sholes,
Curtis Asa Manchester, A.B., North-John Siggins, Jr.,
eastern Ohio Normal College, Milton Newberger Simon,
Harry Dean Mann,                 Louis George Slaughter,
John Alfred Mansfield,           Albert Elwood Snow,
Roy Darwin Matthews,             Harry Algernon Souther,
Philip Starkey Maycock,          Almon Clark Spencer,
Leonard Othello Meigs,           Robert Edmund Springett,
Richard Robert Mitchell,         Robert Louis Stanley,
Fleming Nevin,                   Arthur Dickey Stansell, B.L.,
Charles Peregrine Noon,          Gustav Stein,
Leroy Northrup,                  John Jar Sterling,
Frank Joseph O'Brien,            Arthur Benjamin Stern,
Andrew Joseph O'Conor,           Ward Alerton Stevens,
Gustavus Adolphus Ohlinger, A.B.,Herman LeRoy Stevens, B.S.,
Lyle Burton Orr,                 Samuel Frederick Stewart,
Leslie Peck,                     Frederic Hubert Stone,




60


JUNE MEETING, 1902.


Joseph Homer Sullivan,
Arthur William Taylor,
Isaac Daniel Taylor, A.B., Uni
sity of Kansas,
Verner Taylor,
Daniel TenCate,
Daniel Hadlond Thomas,
Percy Folsom Thomas,
Arthur Scott Thompson,
Delino Henry Thompson,
Vernal Emery Thompson,
John William Titcomb,
James Alexander Veasey,
Louis La Moron Wallace,
John Anthony Ward,
Lyford Wilson Warfield, B.L.,
George Orvil Warner,
George Crittenden Watson, Jr.
Harrison Samuel Weeks,
Vernon Dwight Wells,
Charles Fillmore  Welsh, B.
Geneva College,


Oswald Fritz Wencker,
Edward Speer White, A.B., State
\ver-    University of Iowa,
Hugh White, Ph.B.,
Herbert Porter Whitney, A.B., Amherst College,
Clarence Chauncy Wightman, B.S.,
Northern    Indiana   Normal
School,
Wilbur Davis Wilkin,
Burt James Williams, A.B., Doane
College,
John Webb Willmott, A.B., State
College of Kentucky,
Ebin Wilson,
Floyd Arthur Wilson,
William Henry Wilson,
Daniel Wallace Woodard,
Roy Church Woodworth, B.L.,
Roscoe Tracy York,
S.,  Edward Russel Young.          256


MASTER OF LAWS.
Stonewall Jackson Dodson, LL.B., Cumberland University, LL.B.
1-257
School of Pharmacy.
PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST.


Hugh Alexander Clotworthy,
William L. Dawson,
William Edmund Dillon,
Charles Ralph Eckler,
Casriel Fishman,
James Howard Flagg,
Frank Ice Hard,
Martin Edgar Luther,
Arthur George Lyon,


Arthur Leo Randall,
Silas Franklin  Scott, B.S., Mich.
Agricultural College,
Helmer William Smidt, Ph.G., Purdue University,
Arthur Garfield Smith,
Homer Charles Washburn,
Harold Cole Watkins.
15


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN PHARMACY).
Walter Henry Blome, Ph.C.,      Louis Theodor Wilhelm  Hogrefe,
Herbert William Emerson, Ph.C.,    Ph.C.                   3-18
Homceopathic Medical College.
DOCTOR OF MEDICINE.


Harley Armand Haynes,
Harry Lyman Imus,
Carl Emil Johnson,
George Cantwell Lamb,


Frederick Henry Mosher Long,
M.D., Chicago   Homoeopathic
C(gcge,
Roy Joseph Pelton,
Fred Johnston Schulz.          7




JUNE MEETING, 1902.


61


College of Dental Surgery.
DOCTOR OF DENTAL SURGERY.


John Frederick Allen,
Morris Aloysius Anglim,
Clarence Charles Bowen,
Russell Welford Bunting,
John Oscar Butler,
Edward Beach Caldwell,
Ralph Aretus Calkin,
James Rolland Cannan, B.S., TriState Normal College,
Fred Martin Capron,
George Chalmers,
Charles Jeffrey Colling,
Walter Leon Crego,
Frank Leo Cunningham,
Lewis Ward Curtis,
Percy Lewis Day,
William Dick,
William Patrick Finlan,
Perry Layfield Fritz,
William Fuller Gates,
William Edward Haller,
Charles Adams Hawley,
Cyrus B. Hayner,
Frederick Louis Hermann,
Harold Lee Howver,
Matthew Edward Kearney,
William Charles Kinietz,
Joseph Henry Kirby,
Stanley Morris Kirby,
Harry Gardner Kittell,
Arthur Barnard Lawson,
Arthur William Lewis,
Carlos Joseph Light,
William Millard Lyle,
George Malcom Madden,
Stuart Anthony Mercer,


Allan Singleton Moore,
Hugh Edwin Neelands,
Arthur John Norman,
Lura Frances Owen,
Harry Oliver Quackenbush,
Fred Sterner Randles,
Shirley Abner Randolph,
Orrin Riemenschneider,
Eldred George Robbins,
Guy Porter Saville,
Maurice George Skinner,
Andrew Gregor Smith,
Shilon Selwyn Smith,
Ernest Edgar Snow,
Frank Rutherford Snow,
Roy Lee Spaulding,
William Frederick Spies,
George Albert Stegeman,
James Robert Stewart,
Edwin Freeman Swinehart,
Clarence George Taylor, B.S., Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,
M.E., ibid.,
Henry Wensel Tobias,
Frank Vandeburg, Ph.B.,
Vern Margaret Van Fossen,
Otto Clemens Vogeli,
Marcus Llewellyn Ward,
Louis Gordon Watkins,
Charles Morris Welch,
William Henry Weybright,
Jonathan Charles Whatley,
Frank Henry Wilkinson,
Frank Edwin Williams,
Albert Croswell Wilson,
Eric Zincke.                  69


Total number of candidates, 777.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the title of Professor E. D.
Campbell was made Professor of Chemical Engineering and
Analytical Chemistry.
On recommendation of the Director of the Chemical Laboratory, and on motion of Regent Lawton, the following appointments were made in that Department, for one year:




62


JUNE MEETING, 1902.


Walter H. Blome, B.S., to be Assistant in Pharmacy, salary.... $300.00
Hobart H. Willard, Assistant in Qualitative Analysis, salary...  I50.00
Henry W. Berger, Assistant in Organic Chemistry, salary...... Ioo.oo
Francis D. Shenk, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry, salary.... ioo.oo
Mortimer B. Kennedy, A.B., Assistant in Quantitative Analyses, salary........................................  200.00
Frank S. Honberger, A.B., Assistant in Chemical Technology,
w ithout   salary......................................
Leonard D. Haigh, B.S., Assistant in Organic Chemistry, salary. 200.00
The Auditing Board were authorized to employ a dispensing
helper in the Chemical Laboratory, at $25 per month, for ten
months.
On motion of Regent Farr, the following reappointments
were made in the Law Department for the next college year, by
the full vote of the Board:
John W. Dwyer, Instructor in Law, salary................... $I,200.00
John R. Rood, Instructor in Law, salary................... 1,200.00
Judge Henry H. Swan, non-resident Lecturer, salary........  350.00
Dr. Melville M. Bigelow, non-resident Lecturer, salary......  500.00
John B. Clayberg, non-resident Lecturer, salary.............  300.00
Frank F. Reed, non-resident Lecturer, salary................  00oo.oo
Albert H. Walker, non-resident Lecturer, salary.............  300.00
Dallas Boudeman, non-resident Lecturer, salary..............  500.00
Harlow P. Davock, non-resident Lecturer, salary............  100.00
Gertrude E. Woodard, Assistant Law Librarian, salary.......  900.00
Charles R. Loomis, Assistant in Law Library, salary.........  300.00
Resident Lecturers without salary: Professor A. C. McLaughlin,
Dr. V. C. Vaughan, Professor Richard Hudson, Professor H. C.
Adams, Dr. W. J. Herdman, and Professor J. H. Drake.
On motion of Regent Farr, $200 was appropriated for expenses of foreclosure of two mortgages belonging to the Bates
Fund, on property in Omaha, Nebraska.
Regents Farr and Hill, special committee appointed to investigate and report as to the advisability of the University investing a part of its gift funds in the bonds of the St. Louis
Elevator Company, reported that in their judgment it was unwise to do so.
On motion of Regent Hill, Mr. Herman W. March was appointed Assistant in Astronomy for one year, salary $300.
On motion of Regent Hill, it was voted that Dr. Alice G. Snyder be given the title of Director of the Barbour Gymnasium.
On motion of Regent Hill, Mr. A. M. Clover was appointed




JUNE MEETING, 1902.


63


Instructor in General Chemistry for one year, salary $900; and
Assistant Professor S. Lawrence Bigelow was continued as
Acting Director of the Laboratory of General Chemistry until
Professor Freer's return, he to be paid from the general fund
at the rate of $I,600 per year.
Regent Hill presented and read the following communication
from Parke, Davis & Co., of Detroit:
DETROIT, MICH., U. S. A., April 21, I902.
DR. S. LAWRENCE BIGELOW, CHEMICAL LABORATORY, UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN, ANN ARBOR, MICH.
Dear Sir:  We beg leave to acknowledge receipt of your communication of the 29th ult., addressed to the Chief of our Analytical
Department, and to express in reply the willingness of our Board of
Directors to continue for another year the Parke, Davis & Co. Fellowship (October, 1902, to June, I903). Our preference is to have the
Fellowship disposed of, and its beneficiary selected in the manner previously followed.
Please, therefore, consider yourself at liberty to make such announcement as may seem to you fitting.
Assuring you that it gives us no ordinary pleasure to offer this
testimony of our admiration for the University and its great work,
we remain,
Very sincerely yours,
PARKE, DAVIS & CO.
On motion, the President was requested to transmit to Parke,
Davis & Co., the cordial thanks of the Board.
On motion of Regent Hill, an appropriation of $Ioo was
made to pay the traveling expenses of Instructor Glover, in
visiting the large Insurance Companies of the country, for the
purpose of securing information relating to the application of
Mathematics to the problem of Insurance, in connection with the
higher commercial courses in the University.
Regent Hill Dresented and read the following communication from the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and the recommendation therein contained was
approved by the Board:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., June 16, 1902.
To THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
Gentlemen: I have the honor to report that the Faculty of the
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts recommend to you:
That the $50.00 required to be deposited with the treasurer by the
candidates for the Doctorate degrees as a guarantee for the publication




64


JUNE MEETING, 1902.


of their thesis, be forfeited to the University if the thesis is not published within two years after the conferring of the degree.
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DEPONr, Registrar.
On motion of Regent Hill, Mr. Maurice G. Fulton, A.M.,
Assistant to Professor Scott, and holder of the Pilgrim Fellowship last year, was reappointed for one year, with a salary of
$300, by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Hill stated that during the last college year, the sum
of $450 was allowed the department of English for correcting
essays. As the work is unduly heavy,, he moved that the full
time of an instructor be allowed for this work, and that the
salary be $900 for one year. It was so ordered by the full vote
of the Board.
The Director of the Waterman Gymnasium presented his
annual report, which was accepted and placed on file.
On motion of Regent Hill, the repairs in the Waterman
Gymnasium were referred to the committee on Buildings and
Grounds.
On motion of Regent Farr, Walter B. Ford was reappointed
Instructor in Mathematics for one year, salary $900, by the full
vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Hill, Mr. Frederick Tyndall Swan,
A.M., and Arthur Joseph Hoare, A.M., were appointed Assistants in Latin for one year, without salary.
On motion of Regent Farr, the sum of $800 was appropriated
from the Bates fund for repairs on real estate in Omaha, Nebraska, and $62.50 for expense incurred by Regent Farr in
going to Omaha to look over the property of the University in
that city by request of the Board.
On motion of Regent Hill, Walter Dennison, Ph.D., was appointed Junior Professor of Latin, in place of Professor Rolfe
resigned, at a salary of $2,000, and Henry A. Sanders, Instructor
in Latin, was raised to Assistant Professor, with salary of $I,600
by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was authorized
to pay the Ridgway Dynamo and Engine Company $7,000, that
being the full amount of their account for engine and dynamo
furnished the University,
On motion, the Board took a recess until 2 o'clock P. M.




JUNE MEETING, 1902.


65


AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock P. M.
Regent Lawton moved that $2,500 be transferred from the
budget of the Chemical Laboratory to the budget of Hygiene.
It was so ordered on a call vote.
Regent Lawton moved that $I,ooo be appropriated for the
purchase of an X-ray outfit for use in University Hospital.
The motion was carried on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Dean, Mr. Markham Cheever was appointed Assistant in the Engineering Shops for one year, salary
$200; and Benjamin F. Bailey was reappointed Instructor in
Electrical Engineering for one year, salary $900; and Mr. Lyman F. Morehouse was appointed Instructor in Physics for
one year in place of two assistants, the compensation being the
same, $900.
The above appointments were made on a call vote.
Regent Dean moved that Frederick C. Wilson, B.S., be appointed Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing, for
one year, salary $900. The motion was carried by the full vote
of the Board.
On motion of Regent Dean, one additional Instructor was
allowed in Chemical Engineering, for one year, with salary of
$900, by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Dean submitted the following resolutions, which were
approved by the full vote of the Board:
Resolved, That hereafter the use of University Hall shall be
governed by the following regulations:
i. The University Musical Society shall be allowed the use of
the Hall for concerts in the Choral Union Series in each college year,
it being understood that the University Musical Society shall not include
lectures in this series, or use the Hall for any entertainments other
than musical entertainments.
2. The Students' Lecture Association shall be allowed the use of
the Hall for lectures or readings in each college year, it being expressly
provided that in this series of lectures or readings no concerts shall
be included, and that the Hall shall not be used by the Students'
Lecture Association for any other purpose than the giving of lectures
or readings, the choice of lecturers to be subject to the approval of the
President of the University; and this regulation shall apply to any
other organization that may be granted the use of the Hall for lectures
or readings.
3. The use of University Hall for any other purposes or occasions




66


JUNE MEETING, 1902.


than those indicated in the first and second resolutions, shall be referred
to a committee consisting of the President, the Secretary, and the Dean
of the Literary Department, with power.
On motion of Regent Dean, the following appointments and
reappointments were made in the Homoeopathic Medical College for one year:
R. C. Olin, M.D., non-resident Lecturer on Theory and Practice.
0. R. Long, M.D., non-resident Lecturer on Mental Diseases.
W. A. Polglase, M.D., non-resident Lecturer on Nervous Diseases.
F. E. Westfall, M.D., Assistant in Theory and Practice.
H. A. Haynes, House Physician at Hospital, at a salary of $200.
On motion of Regent Dean, it was voted to put awnings on
the Homceopathic Hospital, at a cost of $I40, finish one room on
the third floor, change diet kitchen to basement and plumb the
same, and put light and gate on the elevator.
Regent Dean moved that two additional nurses be allowed
in the Homceopathic Hospital, and that $400 be appropriated
for the purchase of instruments. The motion was carried on
a call vote.
On motion of Regent Carey, $50 was added to the budget
of the General Library for current expenses, to cover a deficit
of equal amount, by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Hill moved that George Plumer Burns, Ph.D., be appointed Instructor in Botany for one year, at a salary of $900.
The motion was carried on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Secretary was authorized
to advance $300 of the guarantee fund, set apart in the budget
for the Law Review Journal.
Regent Farr moved that Kenyon L. Butterfield, A.M., be appointed Instructor in Rural Sociology for one year, at a salary
of $500, $300 of which shall be taken from the lectureship fund
already set apart in the budget for Political Economy and So-:iology. It was so ordered on a call vote.
Regent Fletcher moved that Assistant Professor E. W.
Dow be made Junior Professor, with salary of $2,000. A call
vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes: Regents Fletcher, Hill, Dean, and Carey.
Nays: Regent Farr. Regent Lawton not voting.
Regent Fletcher moved that the Secretary be authorized to
contract with the Venetian Marble and Mosaic Art Company,
of Detroit, to lay a floor in all the rooms on the first floor of




JUNE MEETING, 1902.


67


the General Library Building, except the book room, at a cost
of twenty-three cents per square foot for the floors, and twentyfive cents per lineal foot for 2-inch cove base in toilet rooms, or
a gross sum of $2,3I4 for the entire work. The motion was
carried on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Secretary was directed to
have curtains placed under the skylights in the Art Gallery, to
protect the paintings from the direct rays of the sun, at a cost
not exceeding $I20, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the following reappointments
and appointments were made in the Department of Medicine
and Surgery, for one year, by the full vote of the Board:
Cyrenus G. Darling, M.D., Lecturer on Genito-Urinary and
M inor  Surgery,  salary.................................$500.00
Willard H. Hutchings, B.L., M.D., First Assistant in Surgery,
salary...............................................  200.00
Conrad Georg, A.B., M.D., Second Assistant in Surgery, salary. ioo.oo
Frederick R. Waldron, Ph.B., M.D., Third Assistant in Surgery,
without pay.
Ira D. Loree, M.D., Fourth Assistant in Surgery, without pay.
Jeanne C. Solis, iJ.D., Demonstrator of Nervous Diseases and
Electrotherapeutics, salary............................ 500.00
Vernon J. Willey, B.S., Instructor in Electrotherapeutics, salary  600.00
Theophil Klingmann, Ph.C., M.D., Assistant in Diseases of the
Mind and Nervous System, salary....................... 200.00
Charles W. Edmunds. M.D., Assistant in Pharmacology. in place
of  C. A.  Good,  salary..................................  500.00
Thomas S. Burr, A.B., M.D., Demonstrator of Obstetrics and
Diseases of Women, salary............................. 500.00
George R. Pray, M.D., First Assistant in Obstetrics and Diseases of Women, salary................................. 200.00
William H. Morley, Ph.B., M.D., Second Assistant in Obstetrics
and Diseases of Women, without pay.
Ralph L. Morse, M.D., Assistant in Obstetrics and Diseases of
Women, in charge of laboratory work, salary............. 500.00
Alice B. Ellsworth, M.D., Third Assistant in Obstetrics and Diseases of Women, without pay.
James R. Arneill, A.B., M.D., Instructor in Internal Medicine
and Demonstrator of Clinical Medicine, salary............ 9oo.oo
David M. Cowie, M.D., First Assistant in Internal Medicine,
salary.................................................  300.00
Prentiss B. Cleaves, M.D., Second Assistant in Internal Medicine
in place of Dr. Grim, salary............................ 200.00
Frank R. Spencer, M.D., Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy in
place of Frank Holdsworth, salary........................ 200.00




68


JUNE MEETING, 1902.


Augustus H. Roth, Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy, salary. 200.00
George G. Richards, Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy, salary 200.00
Elsie S. Pratt, B.L., Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy, salary  200.00
Lydia M. DeWitt, M.D., B.S, Instructor in Histology, salary.. 600.00
Louis M. Gelston, A.B., Assistant in Hygiene, salary.......... 400.00
Donald R. Maclntyre, Special Assistant for Water Analysis,
salary................................................ 300.00
May Wheeler. A.B., Rockefeller Scholar in Hygiene, without pay.
Mary F. Leach, A.B., Fellow in Physiological Chemistry, without pay.
George F. Richmond, B.S., Assistant in Physiological Chemistry,
in place of Chas. L. Bliss, salary......................... 600.00
William G. Carhart, Assistant in Hygienic Laboratory, salary.. 300.00
Ward J. MacNeal, Assistant in Hygienic Laboratory, salary.... 300.00
Edward A. Willis, M.D., Demonstrator of Ophtlalmic and Aural
Surgery, Rhinology and Laryngology, in place of Dr. Noyes,
salary.................................................  500.00
Raymond D. Sleight, M.D., Assistant in Ophthalmic and Aural
Surgery, in place of Dr. E. A. Willis, salary............ 200.00
James F. Breakey, M.D., Assistant in Dermatology, salary...... 200.00
James P. Briggs, Ph.C., Pharmacist, University Hospital, salary  750.00
Helen Balcom, Superintendent of the Training School for Nurses,
salary $60 per month.
Frederick A. Baldwin, M.D., Assistant in Pathology, salary.... 500.00
Joshua G. Manwaring, M.D., House Physician, in place of H. W.
Clouchek, salary....................................  400.00
Chas. L. Patton, M.D., Interne in Hospital, in place of J. G.
Manwaring, salary...................................  I25.00
Frank J. Gibson, M.D., Interne in Hospital, in place of C. W.
Edmunds,  at  salary  of..................................  25.00
John H. Gilpin, Interne in Hospital, in place of M. B. McCausland,  salary........................................  125.00
Oscar H. Bruegel, M.D., Interne in Hospital, in place of George
E. Fay, salary.......................................... I25.00
Carl M. Erb, M.D., Interne in Hospital, in place of George H.
Lamley, salary.......................................... 125.00
Walter H. Pillsbury, Ph.D., Special Lecturer on Physiological
Psychology, without pay.
Aldred S. Warthin, Ph. D., M.D., Junior Professor of Pathology,
salary...........................................  2,000.00
Cressy L. Wilbur, M.D., Superintendent of Vital Statistics, was
reappointed Special Lecturer on Vital Statistics.
Henry B. Baker, A.M., M.D., Secretary State Board of Health, was
reappointed Special Lecturer on the Administration of Health Laws.
William M. Edwards, M.D., Superintendent of Michigan Asylum,
was reappointed Special Lecturer on Insanity.
James D. Munson, M.D., Superintendent of Northern Michigan Asylum, was reappointed Special Lecturer on Insanity.
Edmund A. Christian, A.B., M.D., Superintendent of Eastern Michigan Asylum, was reappointed Special Lecturer on Insanity.




JUNE MEETING, 1902.


69


George L. Chamberlain, M.D., Superintendent of Newberry Asylum,
was reappointed Special Lecturer on Insanity.
Elijah M. Houghton, Ph.C., M.D., was reappointed Special Lecturer on the Preparation of Medicines.
Regent Hill moved that $I50 be appropriated for the purchase of a sextant for the use of the Professor of Astronomy.
The motion was carried on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was authorized
to pay Spier & Rohns, architects, $,000o on account of the new
Medical Building.
On motion of Regent Farr, $210.50 was added to the budget
of the Botanical Laboratory to correct an error in footing.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds was directed to construct a large cistern to
take care of the water from the new Medical Building.
Regent Farr presented the report of the Hon. Levi L. Barbour, on the condition of the Williams fund. The report was
accepted and ordered printed in the minutes. The following is
the report:
THE WILLIAMS PROFESSORSHIP FUND
In account with Levi L. Barbour, Dr.


1901
Aug. 31  Paid Loan on note and m'tg., J. B. Ottenbacher.... $
Sept. 2    "   Loan on note and m'tg., L. Logiodice........
"   Crosby com. on collection of interest, $70.72..
30    "  Loan on note and mortgage, L. Logiodice,
second   loan...........................
Oct. 16    "  City taxes 19go  on Schleass property, Grand
R apids...............................


625.00
400.00
3.54
200.00
2.70


I9QO
May


June
Aug.
Sept.


12   "   Loan on note and mortgage, Wm. P. Lane... I,ooo.oo
"   Reg. of Deeds fees, recording Logiodice, Lane,
and  Bissell  papers.....................  2.75
Total Debit...............$2,233.99
Cr.
30  Balance, cash on hand per statement rendered..... $ 823.77
4  Interest, Hedquist from Feb. 4, 'oi to Aug. 4, 'OI... O1.50
2.     "    Principal and taxes in full, of BaragerGies  loan..........................  678.72
"  Becker from Oct. 15, 'oo to Apr. 15, 'oI...  10.50
"     Depuy from Dec. 2, 'oo to June 2, 'oi....  10.50
"     Clement's from Nov. 24, 'oo to May 24, 'oi.  21.00
II     "    Carroll from Apr. I0. 'oo to Oct. Io, 'oo
and interest on interest..............  I.OO




JUNE MEETING, 1902.


Sept. 17 Interest, Drake from March i, 'oi to Sept. i, 'oi..
18     "    Stevenson (Walker) and prin, in full.....
"     Pierce, from Dec. i, 'oo to Dec. i, 'oI....
Payment, Pierce to apply on principal of contract...
Oct. i6 Interest, Becker, from Apr. 15, 'oi to Oct. 15, 'oi..
17     "    Field from Mar. II, 'oi to Sept. ii, 'o...
Nov. II     "    Carroll, from Oct, o1, 'oo to Apr, io, 'oI,
'and interest on interest..............
21     "     Clements, from May 24, 'oi to Nov. 24, 'OI
29     "     Depuy, from June 2, 'oi to Dec. 2, 'oi...
Dec. i     "     on deposits in bank......................
17     "    Ottenbacher from June 17, 'oI to Dec. 17...................
23     "     Pankow, first loan, from  Feb. 12, 'OI to
A ug.  I2,  '0I........................
"     Pankow, second loan, from March 26, 'oI
to   Sept.  26,  'o.....................
27     "     Haines, from June 23, 'Oi to Dec. 23, '0o..
1902
Feb. 3      "    Hedquist, from Aug. 4,'02 to Feb. 4,'02...
14  Payment, Siegel on Schleass property.............
Mar. Io  Interest, Field, from Sept. II, 'o to Mar. 1, '02...
Payment, Field, on principal of mortgage..........
I5 Interest, Drake, fromn Sept, I, 'oi to March I, '02..
25     "     Fayweather, from Jan. 11, 'oi to Jan. 1I,


6.oo
222.60
48.00
50.00
10.50
32.50
Io.75
21.00
10.50
5.89
I8.75
I5.oo
45.00
60.oo
10.50
146.24
32.50
300.00
6.oo


Apr.
May
June


3I
I0
I3
26  "
i  "C


02................................   I7.50
Logiodice on both mts. to Mar. 30, '02....  20.28
Carroll, from Apr. io, 'o to Oct. Io, '02..  IO.50
Becker, from Oct. 15, 'oI to Apr. 15, '02..  1o.50
Depuy, from Dec. 2, 'oi to June 2, '02....  Io.50
on  deposits in  Bank....................  I3.35
]lements from Nov. 24, 'OI to May 24, '02.  21.00
Total Credit........$2,721.35
Total Debit........ 2,233.99
Balance,  cash..........................  487.36


June 17
1,,.,..


MORTGAGES.
Hedquist, N. E..(8oa., Wexford Co.), Int. pd. to Feb. 4, '02..
Drake, L. E. (3oa. Charlevoix Co.). Int. pd. to March I, '02..
Depuy, G. C. (Lot in Grand Rapids). Int. pd. to June 2, '02..
Carroll, J. (8oa., Wexford Co.). Int pd. to Oct. Io, 'oI.......
hayweather, WV.. J.  oa., Clinton Co.). Int. pd. to Jan. i1, '02.
Becker, C. W. (Lot in Grand Rapids). Int. pd. to Apr. I5, '02.
Clements, E. A. (Lot in Grand Rapids) Int. pd. to May 24, '02.
Haines, W. A. (ioa., Wayne Co.). Int. pd. to Dec. 23, 'oI....
Pankow, W. F. ( 2 lots in Detroit). Int. pd. to Aug. 12, 'OI,..
Pankow, W. F. (2 lots in Detroit). Int. pd. to Sept. 26, 'oI...
Field, G. S. (Lot in Detroit). Int. pd. to March 11, '02......


$ 300.00
170.00
300.00
300.00
250.90
300.00
600.00
2,000.00
500.00
1,500.00
1,000.00




JUNE MEETING, 1902.


71


Ottenbacher, J. B. (Lot in Detroit). Int. pd. to Dec. I7, 'oi...  625.00
Logiodice, L. (Lot in Detroit). Int. pd. to March 3,'02......  400.00
Logiodice, L. (Lot in Detroit). Int. pd. to March 3I, '02......  200.00
Siegel, L. (Lot in Grand Rapids). None due................  300.00
Lane, W. P. (Lot in Detroit). None due.................   I,000.00
Total...................... $9,745.00
LAND CONTRACTS.
Pierce, F. L. (Teeter lands, Isabella Co.), Int. pd. to Dec. i, 'o, $750.00
REAL ESTATE.
Schnepp prop., (4oa., Gratiot Co.). Cost Society at sale....... $ 260.42
Clark prop., (64oa., Newaygo Co.). Cost Society at sale...... I,I29.08
Earl prop. (8oa., Osceola Co.). Cost Society at sale......  377.60
Total................ $1,767.10
RECAPITULATION.


June 17, I902


Cash   on  hand...........................  $  487.36
Mortgages on real estate..................  9,745.00
Land contracts..........................     750.00
Real  Estate.............................  1,767.10
Assets, June  17,  I902............... $I2,749.46
Net gain  over June  30, I90I..................$  606.59


On motion of Regent Farr, Professor Pettee was requested
to audit the accounts of the Treasurer and the Secretary, the
compensation for the work to be the same as heretofore.
On motion, the Board adjourned to to-morrow morning at
9 o'clock.
MORNING SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 9 o'clock.
Regent Lawton presented and read the following communication from Dr. W. H. Dorrance:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., June I8, I902.
To THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
I hereby offer my resignation of the chair of Prosthetic Dentistry
and Metallurgy, to take effect at the close of this college year.
W. H. DORRANCE.
On motion of Regent Farr, the resignation was accepted.
On motion of Regent Hill, the following appointments were
made in the Department of Botany, by the full vote of the
Board:




72


JUNE MEETING, 1902.


Howard S. Reed, Assistant in Plant Physiology, salary........ $200.00
Clara H. Hasse, Assistant in Botany, salary..................  50.00
Axel vv. Pierson, Assistant in Botanical Laboratory, salary....  50.00
Regent Hill moved that Merlin L. Wiley, A.B., be appointed
Assistant in Elocution, for one year, salary $300, and Richard
D. T. Hollister, A.B., Assistant in Elocution, for one year,
salary $200. The motion was carried on a call vote.
Regent Hill presented and read the following communication from Professor T. C. Trueblood:
ANN ARBOR, MICII., June I8, 1902.
To THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
I respectfully request that the same amount ($300.00), which was
contributed by the Board last year, for the support of the debating and
oratorical contests, be given this year to make up the deficit of the
Oratorical Association.
It is confidently expected that with the new provision of the Board
of Regents for the future, and certain new regulations of the Oratorical Board, in regard to personal expenses of contestants, that this
request will not have to be repeated.  Very truly yours,
THOMAS C. TRUEBLOOD.
On motion of Regent Hill, $300 was appropriated for the
purpose named in the foregoing communication, and upon the
conditions stated therein, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Regents Farr and Dean and
the Secretary were appointed a special committee, with power
to settle any difference that may exist between the University
and the Blair Coal Company, growing out of their failure to
furnish the University coal, at contract prices, during the whole
college year.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was authorized
to advertise for bids for the erection and completion of a Psychopathic Ward on the Hospital grounds of the University, and
th_.. said bids be returnable on the s5th day of July next.
Regent Farr moved that the following sums be appropriated
for the support of the Alumni Association:
For advertising the University in the Alumnus............... $300.00
For publishing  the  News  Letter............................  300.00
For editing the News Letter............................... 300.00
For general catalogue revision............................  500.00
The motion was carried unanimously.
The Board then took a recess until 2 o'clock p. M.




JUNE MEETING, 1902.


73


AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Governor of the State, having appointed the Hon. Levi
L. Barbour to the place on the Board of Regents made vacant by
the resignation of Regent Eli R. Sutton, and Mr. Barbour being
present, the oath of office was administered to him, and he
assumed the duties of Regent of the University of Michigan,
and was assigned to the places on the standing committees of
the Board previously held by Regent Sutton, and was also added
to the committee on Buildings and Grounds.
The following resolution, introduced by Regent Farr, was
adopted by the Board:
Resolved, That hereafter no purchase of property, employment of
persons, or any pledge of the credit of the University made by any
person without the authority of the Board of Regents, will be recognized.
And all such purchases, employment, or pledging the credit of the University is hereby forbidden.
The Secretary is hereby directed to notify all persons connected
with the University of this action.
Provided, however, That the Superintendent of Buildings and
Grounds shall have the power to hire and discharge the men under
him, subject to the approval of the Board, and that all janitors, carpenters, laborers, and mechanical employees of the University are under the
supervision of the said Superintendent, and that he shall report to the
Board all changes in the force, from time to time.
On motion of Regent Farr, $2,I50 was appropriated for the
purchase of an ice machine for the care of anatomical material
in the new Medical Building, and $950 for installing the same.
This appropriation was made on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, $Io,ooo was appropriated for
the purchase of pipe, fittings, radiators, sinks, and plumbing materials in the new Medical Building by the full vote of the
Board.
Regent Farr submitted the following resolution, which was
adopted by the full Board:
Resolved, That the method suggested by the State Accountant in
his l1tter of June 9, for bringing the books of the Auditor General's
office and the books of the Treasurer of the University into harmony,
be adopted.
The President being called away, Regent Hill was asked to
take the chair.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was authorized




74


JUNE MEETING, 1902.


to enter into contract, in the name of the Board, with the
American Blower Company, of Detroit, for heating and ventilating the Library Building, according to the specifications, for
the sum of $2,375, not including pedestals. This action was
taken on a call vote.
Regent Barbour moved that $Ioo be appropriated to defray
the traveling expenses of Librarian Davis, on a tour of inspection of the Public Libraries of the East, with the view
of securing,etter methods of administration for our own
Library. The m,,otion:aas carried by the full vote of the Board.
The Board then took a recess until 7:30 P. M.
EVENING SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 7: 30 P. M.
The following bids were received for the construction of a
new Boiler House at University Hospital, according to the revised plans and specifications:
Henry  Carew  &  Company, of Detroit......................$23,877.00
Shaw, Kendal & Company, of Toledo.:................... 24,848.oo
Regent Fletcher moved that the contract be awarded to
Henry Carew & Co., for the sum of $23,877. It was so ordered
on a call vote.
The Board then proceeded to open the bids for the construction of the new Engineering Building, with the following
results:
Koch Brothers, Ann Arbor............................... $56,86I.00
Henry  Carew  &  Company, of Detroit...................  I47,999.00
Charles A. Sauer, Ann  Arbor............................  I69,III.o0
Geering  Brothers, Detroit...............................  46,000.00
Charles Hoertz & Son, Grand Rapids..................... I40,000.00
R. Robertson, Detroit.................................. I62,000.00
Regent Hill moved that the contract be awarded to Charles
Hoertz & Son, of Grand Rapids, for the sum of $I40,000, including tile roof. If tile partitions are used in place of wood, $200
shall be added to this contract. If tile is used in place of brick
partitions on third floor, an additional sum not exceeding $I,ooo,
shall be added to the contract. The contractor shall furnish all
additional steel in floors required to make them carry the
pr\scribed load, and shall complete said building, and turn the
same over'to owners on or before the I5th day of June, I903.




JUNE MEETING, 1902.


75


They shall also give two security company's bonds of $25,000
each; one for the faithful performance of the contract, and the
other for the protection of the material men. After said building
is inclosed, the owners agree to heat the same to 40~, if necessary.
A call vote was taken on this motion, and the motion was
carried by the unanimous vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the degree of Doctor of Medicine was conferred upon DeWitt Clinton Wade, as of the class
of I86I, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty
of the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
On the recommendation of the Executive Committee, the
President was authorized by the full vote of the Board to confer the following honorary degrees on the persons named:
MASTER OF ARTS.
Harry Gray Sherrard, A.B., 1882, eminent teacher of Ancient
Classics.
Florus Alonzo Barbour, A.B., 1878, Professor of English Literature,
State Normal College,
Austin White Alvord, M.D., i868, eminent physician.
DOCTOR OF MEDICINE.
Hermann Kiefer, ex-Regent of the University.
DOCTOR OF LAWS.
William Henry Beadle, A.B., i86i, President of the South Dakota
Normal School.
Bernard M.oses, Ph.B., 1870, Professor of History in the University
of California, and United States Commissioner to the Philippines.
Major Walter Reed, United States Army, eminent investigator of the
causes of yellow fever.
Henry Harrison Swan, United States District Judge, Detroit.
On the recommendation of the Executive Committee, Hermann Kiefer, M.D., was appointed, by the full vote of the Board,
Professor Emeritus of the Practice of Medicine, in the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
On motion, the Board adjourned to meet at Regent Barbour's office, in Detroit, on Thursday, June 26, at io o'clock. A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




SPECIAL JUNE MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 1
ANN ARBOR, June 26, I902. 
The Board assembled in the office of Regent Barbour, in
the city of Detroit, at 10 o'clock A. Mr.
Present: The President, Regents Farr, Fletcher, Lawton,
Dean, Barbour, and Carey.
Absent: Regents Butterfield and Hill.
The Secretary read the minutes of the previous meeting,
which were, on motion of Regent Lawton, approved and ordered printed.
Prof. V. M. Spalding gave notice that the Hon. D. M.
Ferry had continued for the coming academic year the Botanical Fellowship of $500 that bears his name.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the President was requested
to transmit the thanks of the Board to Mr. Ferry for his generous gift.
On motion of Regent Farr, the leave of absence of Prof.
P. C. Freer, now in the Philippine Islands, was extended to
February next, without salary.
Regent Farr moved that Mrs. Myra Beach Jordan be appointed Women's Dean for one year, with salary of $1,200.
On a call vote, the motion was carried unanimously.
On.motion of Regent Carey, the Building Committee were
empowered to contract for the furniture for the new medical
building.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Superintendent Reeve was
directed to go to Grand Rapids and Holland, and confer with
Regents Butterfield and Carey, with the view of inducing
manufacturers at both these points to submit estimates of the
cost of furniture for the new medical building.
On motion of Regent Farr, the custody of the Williams
Fund was transferred from Regent Barbour to Mr. George S.
Field, of Detroit, and a bond of $5,ooo was required.




78           SPECIAL JUNE MEETING, 1902.
Regent Farr moved that the salary of Prof. H. B. Hutchins
1)e made $4,000, and $I,ooo additional as Dean of the Law
Department.
A call vote on this motion resulted as follows: Ayes- Regents Farr, Fletcher, Lawton, Dean, Barbour, and Carey.
Nays - None.
The Secretary was instructed to ask Mr. Hopwood to get
bids on sinks for the new medical building.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Finance Committee were
authorized to invest $30,000 of the gift funds of the University in municipal bonds.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Thursday, July 17, at
IO o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
Sccrctary.




JULY MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, July 17, 1902. 
The Board assembled in the Regents' room      at Io o'clock
i. M.
Present: Regents Farr, Hill, Lawton, Barbour, and Fletcher.
Absent: Regents Butterfield, Dean, and Carey.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Lawton, approved and ordered
printed.
Commlunications which had reached the President were
referred to the standing committees of the Board for consideration.
On motion of Regent Hill, Dean W. Myers, M.D., was
appointed assistant to the Chair of Ophthalmology and Otology,
in the Homceopathic Medical College, for one year, without
salary.
The following pay roll for the summer school was presented
and read by Regent Hill, and on his motion was passed by the
full vote of the Board:PAY ROLL FOR SUMMER SESSION, 1902.
DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS.
Prof. I. N. Demmon, English  Literature....................$  250  oo
Prof. W. W. Beman, Mathematics..........................  250 oo
Prof. Volney M. Spalding, Botany..........................  250 oo
Prof. Thomas C. Trueblood, Elocution......................  250 oo
Prof. John  C.  Rolfe,  Latin...............................  250  oo
Prof. Robert M. Wenley, Philosophy........................  250  oo
Prof. W. H. Payne, Pedagogy.............................  250 oo
Prof. J. A. Woodburn (Indiana State Univ.), History........  250 oo
Prof. F. M. Taylor, Political Economy.....................  200 oo
Prof. A. S. Whitney, Pedagogy............................  200 oo
Prof. J. O. Reed, Physics...................................  200  oo
Prof. J.  H.  Drake,  Latin..................................  200  oo
Prof. W. H. Sherzer, Geology (State Normal).........   200 oo
Assistant Prof. J. L. Markley, Mathematics.................  240 oo




80


JULY MlEETING, 1902.


Assistant Prof. George Rebec, Psychology...................  60 o0
Assistant Prof. Moses Gomberg, Chemistry...................  240 00
Assistant Prof. Karl E. Guthe, Physics.....................  240 00
Assistant Prof. Edward D. Jones, Commercial Geography....   80 oo
Assistant Prof. John R. Effinger, French.....................  240 00
Prof. W. H. Munson (Winona, Minn., State Normal), Zoology   240 00
Instructor Geo. 0. Higley, Chemistry.......................  80 oo
Instructor D. M. Lichty, Chemistry.........................  80 oo
Instructor Tobias  Diekhoff,  German.........................  20  00oo
Instructor J. A. C. Hildner, German......................... I20 o0
Instructor J. WV. Glover, Mathematics.....................  i80 oo
Instructor H. J. Goulding, Drawing.........................  I80 oo
Instructor W. WV. Florer, German........................   120 oo
Instructor E. C. Sullivan, Chemistry.......................  150 oo
Instructor H. A. Sanders, Greek............................  180 oo
Instructor H. M. Randall, Physics..........................  150 00oo
Instructor F. L. Dunlap, Chemistry......................   150 oo
Instructor C. B. Teetzel (Mich. State Normal), Physical Training..................................................  150  O  
Instructor J. M. Thomas, English...........................  0oo oo
Instructor C. D. Frank, French and Spanish................  00 oo
Instructor D. W. Springer (Ann Arbor High School), Science
of  Accounts........................................   50  oo
The following persons were appointed to give instruction
in the University during the Summer Session, on the condition
that any course which was not elected by at least six students
should be withdrawn:Instructor C. L.  Meader,  Latin.............................$   i80   oo
Instructor Geo. P. Burns, Botany............................  100  oo
Instructor John C. Thorpe, Mechanical Engineering........  100 00
$6,930 oo
ADMINISTRATION.
John 0. Reed, Chairman of Executive Committee............$  o00. 00
John R. Effinger, Secretary of Executive Committee.........  00 00
$7,130 00
On motion of Regent Hill, William G. Smeaton, A.B., was
appointed Instructor in Chemical Engineering for one year, at
a salary of $900, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Hill, the following appointments were
made in Zoology for one year by the full vote of the Board:
Miss Maud M. DeWitt, B. S., Assistant in Zoology,, salary.. $300 oo
Mr. Mark Marshall, Assistant in Zoology, salary.............  50o oo
Albert W. Dorr, Assistant in Zoology, salary...............  150 oo




JULY MEETING, 1902.


81


C. F. Curtis Riley, B. S., Assistant in Zoology, salary........ 150 oo
Mr. Wilbur N. Fuller, Assistant in Zoology, salary.......... I50 oo
Mr. R. H. Wormley, Assistant in Zoology, salary............  50 oo
Miss Frances Dunbar, Assistant in Zoology, salary...........  50 oo
Regent Hill moved that the following appointments be made
in the Dental Department for one year:
Dr. Cyrenus G. Darling, Lecturer on Oral Pathology and Surgery,  salary...........................................  $500  oo
Dr. Ira D. Loree, Demonstrator of Oral Surgery, salary...... 200 oo
Dr. John J. Scott, Assistant to the Professor of Operative and
Clinical  Dentistry,  salary...............................  500  oo
Dr. Marcus L. Ward, Assistant to the Professor of Operative
and  Clinical  Dentistry,  salary..........................  500  oo
Dr. Charles M. Briggs, Instructor in Clinical Dentistry, salary.. oo0 oo
Dr. Robert B. Howell, Instructor in Prosthetic Technics and
Comparative Odontology, salary......................... 800 oo
Elmer L. Whitman, Assistant in Prosthetic Technics, salary... 200 oo
A call vote being taken, resulted as follows: Ayes, Regents
Farr, Hill, Lawton, Barbour, and Fletcher. Nays, none.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Mr. R..B. Jackson was appointed to assist the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds
until October first next, salary $70 per month.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the treasurer was requested
to pay Mason and Kahn, Architects of the new engineering
building $2,400, on account.
On motion of Regent Lawton, Mrs. Addie Wheaton was
appointed matron at University Hospital in place of Miss Mary
Close, resigned, salary $30 per month. The appointment was
made on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Finance Committee were
authorized to purchase with the gift funds of the University
$40,000 face value of the bonds of the city of Enid, Oklahoma
Territory, at such a rate as will net the University 438 per
cent, if upon investigation they are satisfied that said bonds
have been legally issued.
Regent Barbour moved that Rufus H. Pettitt, B. S., be appointed curator of the Museum for one year at a salary of
$9goo, he to give his entire time to museum work during the
academic year, and to make himself responsible for such work
as it is necessary to carry on during vacations. The appointment was made on a call vote.




JuLY 1JfEE7ING, 19o0.


Regent Barbour moved that Edson R. Surderland, LL.B.,
be reappointed Instructor in Law for one year at a salary of
$I,200, it being understood that the $200 named in the budget
for a course in irrigation be applied on this salary, and that
the course in irrigation be dropped for next year.
It was so ordered by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following communication from   the Law Librarian:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., July i6, I902.
PROF. HARRY B. HUTCHINS, DEAN OF THE DEPARTMENT OF LAW, UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN:
Dear Sir: I take pleasure in announcing thaf the children of the
late Judge Thomas M. Cooley have been pleased to present to the University of Michigan, for its Law Library, the list of volumes hereto
appended. I think it the hope on the part of the donors that these
books may be kept as a collection which may serve as a memorial
of their father and his relation to the Department of Law. We have
no conveniences now for shelving them separately from the general
collection of books in the Library.  The donors of this collection
have indicated to me that upon the return, by Professor Rogers, of Yale,
of the manuscripts of Judge Cooley, they would be glad to make a
selection from  these to add to this collection.  Professor Rogers is
using them temporarily in writing a biography of Judge Cooley. When
these are received, if a case suitable for holding them could be
placed somewhere in the Library, I am sure it would meet the wishes
of those who have so generously remembered the Department.
Yours sincerely,
V. H. LANE,
Law Librarit(ln.
BOOKS PRESENTED         TO  THE   LAW    LIBRARY    BY   THICHILDREN OF JUDGE THOMAS M. COOLEY.
Cass Code. Manuscript.
Woodard Code. Manuscript.
Curtis.  Important federal statutes.
U. of M. Res Gestae, '95.
Michigan Supreme Court Rules.
Bench and Bar. Vol. I.
Story. Commentaries. Ed. 4, by T. M. Cooley. 4 vols.
Kent. Commentaries. Ed. 12. 4 vols.
Blackstone. Commentaries. By T. M. Cooley. Ed. 3. 2 vols.
Blackstone. Commentaries.  Christian, Chitty, 4 vols.
Blackstone.  Commentaries. HIargrave, Sweet, 4 vols.
Blackstone.  Commentaries.  Coleridge.  4 vols.
Cooley. Law of torts.




JULY7:  EETING, 19032.


83


Cooley. Constitutional Limitations. Editimns i, 2, 4, 5, 6.
Cooley. Constitutional Law. Ed. 2.
Hamilton. Federalist.
Broom. Constitutional Law.
Michigan Session Laws. 5 vols.
Total 42 vols.
On motion of Regent Bar)our, it was voted that the gift
be accepted, and that a proper case be provided for the reception of the books and manuscripts, and the President was requested to convey to the children of Judge Cooley the high
appreciation of the Board for their valuable gift to the Law
Library of the University.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Frank L. Sage, B. S., LL.B.,
was appointed Assistant Professor of Law, at a salary of $I,600,
and Paul J. lMunter was appointed clerk in the offices of the
Dean and Secretary of the Law Department, at a salary of
$I75. These appointments were made on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Barbour, $47 was taken from the contingent fund of the Law Department for the purchase of a
bookcase for the Law Library.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was authorized to purchase a tent for the use of the patients in the Homoeopathic Hospital, at a cost of $24, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Hill the Students' Christian Association was allowed $50, to aid them in publishing a handbook
of information for new students, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Hill, Regents Lawton, Farr, Carey,
Barbour, and the Secretary were appointed a special committee
to submit the plans and specifications of the New Psychopathic
Ward to the Board of Corrections and Charities for their approval.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the bid of the Buffalo Forge
Company to heat and ventilate the Psychopathic ward, for the
sum of $6,651, was accepted by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the contract to furnish 650
chairs for the lecture room and the Amphitheatre in the new
Medical building was awarded to the Grand Rapids School
Furniture Company, at $4 each, by the unanimous vote of the
board.
Regent Fletcher submitted the following bids for the erection and completion of the new Psychopathic ward, according




84


JUL Y ME TING, 1902.


to the plans and specifications prepared by Mason and Kahn,
Architects, of Detroit:
Koch  Bros,  of  Ann  Arbor..............................  $39,508  oo
Charles  A. Sater  &  Co., of  Ann  Arbor..................  39,227  oo
H.  J.  Spikeir,  of  Toledo..............................  48,492  oo
Davis  and  Toppinger,  of  Toledo.........................  39,383  oo
Henry  Carew  &  Co., of Detroit..........................  49,650  oo
Hoertz and Son, of Grand Rapids...................... 49,333 oo
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the contract for the Psychopathic ward was awarded Charles A. Sauer & Co., subject to
the approval of the Board of Corrections and Charities, for the
sum of $39,227, by the full vote of the Board, except Regent
Hill, not voting.
The proposition of the Woodward Lumber Company of
Atlanta, Georgia, to furnish the furniture and fixtures for the
new Medical building, for the sum of $r7,135.15, was accepted
bv the Board on a call vote.
Regent Farr moved that the auditina board be authorized
to purchase the necessary sinks for the new Medical building.
The motion was carried on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Auditing Board were authorized to put window shades on the east, west, and south sides
of the new Medical building, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Lawton, $35 was allowed for shelving
in the cold storage room in the new Medical building, and Mr.
Reeve was directed to paint the brick walls back of all cases
and shelving in the building.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Friday, September 19,
1902.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




SEPTEMBER MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, Sept. 0o, I902. 
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at 10 o'clock
A. M.
Present: Regents Farr, Hill, Lawton, Dean, Barbour, and
Fletcher.
Absent: Regents Butterfield and Carey.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Lawton, approved and ordered
printed.
Communications which had reached the President were referred to the standing committees of the Board for consideration.
The President presented and read the following communication from Professor Kelsey:
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN, July I6, I902.
TO THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN:
Gentlemen: I have pleasure in reporting to you that Mr. Frederick
Stearns, of Detroit, has contributed to the University the sum of five
hundred dollars for a Fellowship in the History of Music, for the
year 902- 1903. I would respectfully request that Mr. Phillip L.
Schenk (A. B., I902) be appointed to the Fellowship; he has already
commenced work upon the manuscript of the catalogue of the Stearns
Collection of musical instruments.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANCIS W. KELSEY.
Regent Lawton moved that Mr. Phillip L. Schenk be appointed as the holder of the Stearns Fellowship for one year,
and that the President be requested to convey to Mr. Stearns
the thanks of the Board for his gift to the Department of
Music. The motion was carried by the unanimous vote of the
Board.




86


SEP TEMIBER MEETINVG, 1902.


On the recommendation of Professor Greene, and on motion of Regent Dean, Fred G. Frink, M.S., was appointed Instructor in Civil Engineering for one year in place of Fred M.
Green, resigned, salary $900. This appointment was made on
a call vote.
Regent Lawton moved that Assistant Professor Moses Gomberg be made Junior Professor, with salary of $2,000, to take
effect October I, I903. The motion was laid on the table until
the next meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, $2,546 was appropriated
for the purchase of instruments for use in the Department
of Geodesy and Surveying, by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Farr moved that the sum of $60 be appropriated for
the purchase of copies of the Inlander (a college publication),
to be sent to the High Schools having diploma relations with
the University. The motion was carried on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Farr, the building committee were
authorized to furnish all necessary equipment for the new
Medical building.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Mr. R. B. Jackson was continued as Assistant to the Superintendent of Buildings and
grounds at a salary of $60 per month. Mr. Markham Cheever
was also employed as assistant to the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds, at a salary of $50 per month, these salaries
to continue while building operations are in progress.
The Board then took a recess until 2 o'clock Ir. MI.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. M. Regent Carey
being present.
On motion of Regent Farr, the President and the Secretary
were authorized to execute a deed to John F. Stout of the west
forty feet of lots 23 and 24 in block 5, Hanscom Place, in the
city of Omaha, Nebraska, the purchase price being $5,363, also
to execute discharge of the following mortgages: One made by
C. M. Cady and Sarah B. Cady, his wife, and one by George M.
Schmidt and Lillian iMX. Schmidt, his wife, both in the county
of Adair, Iowa.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Finance Committee were
authorized to hold bank draft for $40,000 which was drawn to




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1902.


87


purchase Oklahoma bonds, until further action can be taken
to legalize said bonds.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the contract to furnish the
University supply of coal for the ensuing year was awarded
to the Blair Coal Company of Toledo, Ohio, as follows:
Pittsburg No. 8, R. of M., per ton F. 0. B., Ann Arbor........ $2 25
Pittsburg No. 8, Slack, per ton F. 0. B., Ann Arbor........... I 90
Massillon, Slack, per ton F. 0. B., Ann Arbor.............. I 95
Jackson, Run of Mines, per ton F. 0. B., Ann Arbor.......... 2 80
Pittsburg No. 8 or Hocking Valley Nut and Slack, per ton....  2 15
The following resolution introduced by Regent Farr was
adopted by the Board:
Resolved, That the Treasurer is hereby authorized and directed
to collect from the Superintendent of University Hospital the sum of
$204.73, being money received by said Superintendent, and which was
afterward stolen from him, and that the Treasurer account to the
State therefor.
On motion of Regent Lawton, Louis P. Hall was reappointed Assistant Professor of Dental Anatomy, Operative
Technique, and Clinical Operative Dentistry, for three years,
salary $I,6oo.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Mr. Augustus Henry Roth
was appointed first Assistant in Anatomy for one year, salary
$500, and Mr. Frank S. Bachelder Second Assistant in Anatomy,
for one year, salary $400. These two appointments are to take
the place of Dr. Guy M. Winslow, resigned.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Muehlig and Schmid were
awarded the contract to cover, with zinc, fifty-three dissecting
tables for the new Medical building, and also furnish galvanized buckets for each table, for the sum of $I02.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the bid of J. Chrysler, Son
& Co., of Detroit, to furnish fifty Coburn hangers, and fifty feet
of track, and place the same in the new Medical building, for
the sum of $I35, was accepted by the full vote of the Board.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Thursday, October 9,
1902, at 10 o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




OCTOBER MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, October Io, 1902.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at o1 o'clock
A. M.
Present-Regents Butterfield, Farr, Lawton, Dean, Hill,
Barbour, Fletcher, and Carey.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Lawton, approved and ordered
printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the standing commnittees of the Board
for consideration.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Treasurer was instructed
to take no further action with the Auditor General, in relation
to the burglary at University Hospital, unless further instructed
by the Board.
The President stated that his annual report had been prepared, and was held subject to the wishes of the Board. It
was the desire of the Board that the report be read by the
President, which was done after calling Regent Barbour to
the chair.
THE PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
I have the honor to present to you my Report for the year
ending June 30, I902.
No important changes have been made in the scope or
methods of work during the past twelve months, but the year
has been characterized by quiet, orderly, and successful labor.
While it is recognized by the public that this University has
always been ready, unhampered as it is by too many obstruc



90


OCTOBER MEE'TING, 90 2.


tive traditions, to try with courage and enterprise promising
experiments in education, yet it has tried to be wise and conservative enough not to introduce innovations rashly, merely
for the sake of being thought progressive. There must be a
certain degree of steadiness in the policy of an institution like
this, if it is to command the confidence of serious men and to
secure the best results for its students. If, therefore, its record
for the year presents little that is exceptional or eventful, we
are not to draw an unfavorable inference, but rather to conclude
that the fact is one for congratulation, and that steady and
undisturbed work has earned its legitimate harvest.
The completion of the General Catalogue has enabled us
to gather some interesting facts. The following may be noted
here.  Degrees have been conferred in the several departments,
down to 19go, as follows:
Department of Literature, Science, and  the  Arts........................... 4,553
Department of Engineering......................................................  786
Department of Medicine  and  Surgery.......................................... 3,523
D epartm ent  of  Law................................................................  6,657
School of  Pharm acy................................................................  8 840
Homceopathic  Medical  College.................................................  372
College  of  Dental  Surgery........................................................,005
Honorary Degrees.........................................  151
17,887
Deducting 703, the number of persons who have received
degrees in more than one department, we have the total number of persons who have received degrees, namely, 17,I84.
Of these, 1,835 were women.
The number of deaths recorded in our books being 2,186,
the number of graduates supposed to be living at the date of
this report is 14,998.
The number of graduates for each of the last five years has
been: 1898, 708; 1899, 722; 1900, 777; I901, 766; 1902, 823.
The number of persons, matriculated prior to the beginning of the year I897-98,,who have pursued studies in some
department, but have not graduated, is 12,623, of whom 2,I45
are known to be deceased.
It thus appears that the General Catalogue contains the
names of 29,728 persons (excluding recipients of honorary
degrees), who had, for a longer or shorter time, been enrolled




OCTOBER MEETING, 1902.


91


in the University.  Of these, it is probable that about 25,000
are now living.
These simple figures must impress one deeply with the
extent of the work which the University has accomplished in
its comparatively brief life.  Its children are found engaged
in honorable and useful pursuits in all parts of the earth.
It has made the name of Michigan known and respected
throughout the civilized world. Yet the total cost to the State
of its support of the University has been less than the cost to
the nation of a first-class battleship.
Owing to our increased requirements for admission and for
graduation, there was a slight falling off in attendance on the
Schools of Medicine, Law, and Dentistry last year. On the
other hand, there was a slight increase (31) in the Literary
Department, and a large increase (130) in the Engineering
Department. The total attendance, exclusive of that in the
Summer Session, was 3,508, a gain of 26 over that of the preceding year.  Including the Summer Session, the aggregate
attendance was 3,709. The year previous it was 3,7I2.
The students from Michigan numbered 2,I56, or I2 more
than in the preceding year.  The numbers from other States
still continue large; for example, from Illinois, 326; Ohio,
246; Indiana, 144; New York, 144; Pennsylvania, I02; Iowa,
84; Missouri, 58. Every State, save Delaware and Louisiana,
and our new possessions, the Hawaiian Islands, Porto Rico and
the Philippines, and every Territory, except Alaska, are represented.   So, also, are Ontario, Quebec, Bristish Columbia,
South Africa, Jamaica, Japan, Turkey, England, Bulgaria,
China, Egypt, and Mexico. The cosmopolitan feature, which
has so long characterized our student population, is thus still
conspicuous.
The attendance of women (not counting that in the Summer School) was as follows:
Department of Literature, Science, and  the Arts.............................. 668
Department of  Medicine  and  Surgery...........................................  35
Department of Law...........................................................  5
School  of  Pharm acy..................................................................  3
H omceopathic  M edical College.....................................................  7
College  of  D ental  Surgery...........................................................  7
725




92


OCTOBER MEETING, r90o.


In the year preceding, the number was 720. There has,
therefore, been no appreciable change in the relative number
of women and of men. The women form twenty per cent of
the total attendance, and forty-seven and seven-tenths of the
attendance in the Literary Department.
Last year we allowed the first year students in the Literary
Department a larger liberty of election of studies than had
been permitted before. They were required to take three hours
of English in each semester, and were asked to choose the
remaining studies from a list of nine specified branches. The
elections were scrutinized by a committee of the Faculty, which
was charged with the duty of seeing that the rule was complied
with, but which had the power to grant some modifications of
the rule in certain cases, and also of advising the students in
making their elections.
On the whole, the elections seem to have been wisely made.
There was less deviation from the elections made under our
previous requirements than was generally expected.  The
largest losses were sustained, as was anticipated, by Greek (about
45 per cent), Latin (33 per cent), and Mathematics (about 55
per cent). The largest gains were in German and History.
The Languages, History, and Mathematics mainly absorbed
the attention of the class.
The increase in the number of students in the Engineering
Department is making heavy demands on us. It has compelled us to enter on the erection of a large building. The
call for our engineering graduates is greater than we can meet.
Our best men speedily gain important and remunerative positions. Some of our most important industrial establishments
have filed with us requests to send them at any time the names
of our most promising graduates, whom they desire to put in
the path to highly responsible' positions. Our provisions for
instruction in the construction of vessels are attracting much
attention. We have deemed it wise to establish the degree of
Bachelor of Science in Marine Engineering.
So large training in the sciences and their application is
now needed to fit men for conspicuous service in the various
departments of engineering, that we have found the four years'




OCTOBER MEETING, I902.


93


curriculum scarcely adequate to furnish it. We have, therefore,
decided that the engineering students must give six weeks of the
summer at the end of the third year of their course to special
work: the students in' civil engineering to surveying and field
work; in mechanical engineering to a course in dynamo-electrical machinery and in designs of boilers and engines; in
electrical engineering to foundry work and the designing of
boilers and engines; and in chemical engineering to a course
in dynamo-electrical machinery. We furnish the instruction
without additional cost to the students.
It may be questioned whether there has been greater improvement in any department of education during the last
twenty years than in medical education. To no department
have recent scientific discoveries been more directly useful. In
the methods of instruction in none have they compelled greater
changes. The laboratory methods have, to a great extent,
superseded the communication of knowledge by lecturing.
This fact has called for the large additional expense in the provisions made by all the strong medical schools. Our school,
which was one of the first in the country to be furnished with
a chemical laboratory for medical students, has long been conspicuous for its laboratory work in other sciences than chemistry. The completion of our new and spacious building for
medical laboratories adds greatly to our facilities for such
instruction. We have every reason to expect that the Department of Medicine and Surgery will continue to maintain the
high rank it has so long held among the leading medical schools
of the country. The scientific researches of members of its
Faculty have given it a position which is recognized abroad as
well as in our own land.
Although law schools of good standing are multiplying in
the West, our school still continues to lead all others in the
country in the number of its students. The demands made
upon them by the course of instruction grow more exacting
every year. We have not deemed it necessary or wise to
require a collegiate training as the condition precedent to
entering upon the study of law, though we encourage those
who can procure such training to avail themselves of their




94


OCTOBER MEETING, Io02.


opportunity to do so. We are glad to observe that the proportion of those who bring college diplomas at their entrance
is increasing.
The Law Faculty have given a signal proof of their devotion to the interests of the school by establishing a law journal, which most creditably represents the Department.
Although heavily burdened by their regular work as teachers,
they have undertaken this task without any compensation.
The proceeds of the Journal are to be appropriated to the
increase of the Law Library. It is to be hoped that our Law
Alumni will heartily co-operate with them in the maintenance
of this magazine.
The Homceopathic Medical College is pursuing the even
tenor of its way, and receiving as large share of patronage as
can perhaps be expected for a school which holds higher standards of attainment for admission and graduation than most of
the Homceopathic schools in the country. Its students reap
the advantages of instruction in most of the scientific laboratories of the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
The School of Pharmacy shows no tendency to growth in
numbers, but meets an increasing demand for advanced instruction for a limited number of students.
The Dental School, having led the way in lengthening its
course to four years, fell off somewhat in numbers, as was
anticipated. But we do not regret that fact. Other strong
schools are finding themselves compelled to follow our example. We have no solicitude about the attendance, if we can
only see our way clear to the erection of a suitable building for
the accommodation of the School.
The attendance of students in the Summer Session of six
weeks of 1902 was as follows:
Department of Literature, Science, and  the Arts.............................. 349
Department of  Medicine  and  Surgery.........................................  70
Department of Law...............................................  44
Total.......................................................................  463
Of these, 189 were regularly connected with some department. The number of new students was, therefore, 274.




OCTOBER MEETING, I902.


95


Though the Summer Session causes us some expense, the usefulness of it, especially to teachers, is so great that it seems to
be our duty to continue it.
The hospitals still have their capacity tested by applicants
for medical and surgical attention. In the University Hospital, 2,307 patients were treated, and in the Homceopathic
Hospital, I857. About one-fourth of the patients were farmers or farmers' wives. Representatives from seventy-six counties were received and cared for, and not a few persons who
were supported at the public expense were restored to health,
and thus enabled to earn their own living.
From the Librarian's Report it appears that we had, on
June 30, I902, in all the libraries, 65,ooo00 volumes. The number added during the year is 9,539. The periodicals regularly
received number I,000. The recorded circulation of books,
estimated not to exceed one-half of the actual use, was 167,949 volumes.
We have for some years had reason to suspect that diplomas,
especially our medical diplomas, had occasionally been fraudulently obtained. It happens, of course, that now and then a
diploma is either lost in the transportation of baggage or
destroyed by fire. For some years we issued a duplicate diploma
on the simple request by letter of the holder of the original.
Of late years we have required the applicant to send us an
affidavit, swearing to the loss of the diploma and to the circumstances of the loss. We write the word " duplicate" in red
ink on the new diploma. But even these precautions do not
furnish an absolute safeguard against fraud. This very year
we found that a woman, who had an undesirable reputation as
a practitioner, was exhibiting one of our diplomas bearing the
name of one of our graduates, which she had assumed. She
had procured the diploma by writing to our offices under this
assumed name, and asking for it on the ground that her old
one had been destroyed. We have deemed it our duty to protect our genuine diplomas by bringing her into court and
securing her punishment. Fortunately, we were able to secure
the presence in court of the woman whose name she had borrowed.




96


OCTOBER MEETING, I902.


The services of the Faculty Committee of Appointment,
which aids students in finding suitable positions as teachers,
are proving of greater and greater value, both to students and
to schools. The school boards who are in quest of competent
teachers in many cases come directly to our Committee, who
strive to make the best selections to meet the particular conditions in each school. The labor and responsibility thrown upon
the Committee are very considerable.
I take pleasure in recognizing the great value of the services rendered by the Students' Christian Association, the
Young Men's Christian Association, and the Women's League
in aiding new students in finding suitable homes and also
employment, by which they can earn something toward their
support. The great body of our students have very limited
means, and many of them are glad of the opportunity to gain
something by honorable toil, however menial.
In accordance with thewise policy recently adopted of
purchasing, when our means were adequate, some desirable
pieces of land adjacent to our campus, the Regents embraced
the opportunity presented to them to buy the school building
and grounds opposite the University, on State Street. That is
a good site for a fine building, which may be erected when
needed. Meantime, the school building can at once be made
available for relieving the overcrowded state of the rooms in
University Hall. We have given to the building the name of
West Hall, and classes in English, in the Modern Languages,
and in Forestry have already been assigned quarters there.
We have had in hand an unprecedented amount of work in
repairs and construction, much of which is still unfinished.
The continued growth of the University for years has been
making these demands for reconstruction and enlargement.
But not until now have we had the means to meet the demands.
Happily, the recent addition to our income has enabled us to
attempt to erect some, though not all, of the buildings we
greatly need.
i. We have completed the Barbour Gymnasium for Women,
an act which was not only desirable in itself, but which was




OCTOBER MEETING, I902.


97


necessary to comply with the conditions of some of the private
subscriptions through which the building was erected.
2. We have constructed a new floor in the Reading Room
and in the Librarian's rooms in the General Library, and have
so arranged the seating of the Reading Room as to accommodate a half more students than before. We have also improved
the ventilation of those rooms. These steps were of pressing
necessity for the comfort and even for the health of the readers.
3. We have begun the construction of a new boiler house
and laundry for the University Hospital. We shall remove the
boilers from the basement of the Nurses' Home, where an
explosion would have caused great loss of property and life.
This change is costly, but deemed absolutely necessary.
4. We have erected a building for the accommodation of
the following laboratories of the Department of Medicine and
Surgery: Hygiene, Physiological Chemistry, Anatomy, Bacteriology, and Pathology. The accommodations for these in
our old buildings were inadequate, and the space they occupied
was, for the most part, urgently needed for other purposes.
For instance, the laboratories of Hygiene and Bacteriology
were in the upper story of the Physical Laboratory, every inch
of which was needed by the Department of Physics.
5. The Palmer Ward, built primarily for the care of children in the University Hospital, we owe to the generous bequest
of Mrs. Love M. Palmer, who gave it and an endowment fund
as a monument to her husband, the late Professor Palmer. It
will soon be ready for occupancy.
6. The Psychopathic Ward, now in process of erection, is
built by a special appropriation of the Legislature, to care for
patients suffering from nervous ailments akin to insanity. It
is hoped that great benefits may accrue to them from the treatment here, and that thus the pressure upon our asylums for the
insane may be somewhat relieved.
7. The Engineering Building will be the most costly of our
new structures. The growth of the Engineering Department
for the last few years has been so extraordinary that we were




98


OCTOBER MEET[ING, 1902.


compelled to provide larger and better accommodations for it.
We deemed it wise to make our new building large enough to
meet our needs for some few years to come, though the demand
for thoroughly trained engineers is so great that it will not be
surprising if before many years still ampler room will be
needed.
It will be remembered that Mr. Charles J. Hunt (A.B., 1846)
and his wife, Margaret E. Hunt, have already deeded to us a
large tract of valuable timber land in California. Mrs. Hunt has
now deeded to the Regents in trust another large tract of timber
land, situated in Humboldt County, California, for the endowment, after the termination of certain life interests, of scholarships in the Literary Department. One of them is to be named
for her husband's father, James B. Hunt, who was formerly a
representative in Congress from this State.
Our thanks are again due to the Hon. D. M. Ferry, Parke,
Davis & Co., Frederick Stearns & Co., Nelson, Baker & Co.
and Mr. Theodore Buhl, of Detroit, Hon. Peter White, of Marquette, and the Michigan Gas Association, for the continuance
of graduate fellowships which they have been supporting for
the last few years; and to the Rockefeller Research Fund for
two new fellowships in Bacteriology. We are still looking with
hope for the permanent endowment of at least a few fellowships for graduates.
We have also to thank Hon. D. M. Ferry for presenting us
with a tract of land, some seventeen acres, adjacent to our athletic field. This furnishes a spacious field, in which not only
the ball teams can have their practice, but in which the great
body of students can simultaneously have outdoor exercise.
No gift could be more acceptable or more useful to the students
generally. Previously the advantages of the field were for the
most part limited to the comparatively small number of students who composed the teams. Our well-equipped gymnasiums and the large field, embracing nearly thirty acres, now
afford every facility for physical training.
Notwithstanding the welcome addition which has been
made to our buildings, certain of the pressing wants mentioned
in my last Report are still unprovided for; namely, an enlarge



OCTOBER 1MEETING, i9o2.


99


ment of the Library Building, furnishing seminary rooms for
advanced students and more book room; a suitable building
for the Dental School, which is now badly housed; an enlargement of the Physical Laboratory; and the erection of a laboratory building for the work in Zoology and Botany, and perhaps
of Psychology.  An endowment for a certain number of
fellowships for graduate students is also greatly needed. These
should yield an income of four hundred or five hundred dollars
a year for each fellowship.
If our present income is not curtailed, we hope, by careful
economy, to be able in due time to supply most of these lacking buildings, although most of the larger universities in the
country, even those which have fewer students than we, are
conducted at an expense from fifty to sixty per cent greater
than this institution, while Harvard annually expends just about
double our income. We are constantly threatened with the
loss of some of our ablest professors, because our scale of salaries is below that of several other universities.  We have
indeed suffered some such losses. It is owing to the loyalty
and devotion to us of some of our best men that alluring temptations to go elsewhere have been resisted by them. We enter
upon the work of another year with the confident hope that the
people of the State, for whose welfare the University was
founded and is conducted, will continue to cherish pride in its
success and to furnish it their hearty support.
JAMES B. ANGELL.
Regent Fletcher moved that the report be accepted and
adopted and that io,ooo copies be printed for general distribution. It was so ordered by the full vote of the Board.
Librarian Davis presented and read his annual report
which is as follows:
LIBRARIAN'S REPORT.
JULY I, I90 JUNE 30, 1902.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regenls.:
GENTLEMEN:-In accordance with the By-Law of the University requiring the librarian to make an annual report on




100


OCTOBER MEETING, 1902.


the growth and condition of the library, I have the honor to
submit the following as my report for the year 1901-1902.
There were in all of the libraries, June 30, 1902, I65,000
volumes and 1,500 pamphlets.*
Of these, 130,654 volumes and 1,250 pamphlets were in
the General Library; I9,627 volumes were in the Law Library;
12,062 volumes and 200 pamphlets were in the Medical
Library; 1,120 volumes were in the Dental Library; and 1,537
volumes and 50 pamphlets in the Library of the Homoeopathic
Medical College.
In my report for the year I892 I referred to the fact that
we were binding the more important of our unbound pamphlets, and dwelt at some length upon the reasons for doing so.
At that time we could not make much haste in the matter,
but after the establishment of the bindery it was possible to
move faster, and the work has been pushed as rapidly as possible. For the last three or four years it has not seemed
expedient to report the number of pamphlets left unbound, as
nothing  definite could be reported.  Now, however, the
change has gone so far that an enumeration on the new basis
may be begun. In passing to this new enumeration 1 will
state briefly what has been done.
Of what had before been called unbound pamphlets simply,
we made three classes:
I. Those of special interest for any reason, and those containing considerable matter were bound singly, and each one
was called a volume and counted as a volume.
2. Those of sufficient importance to catalogue, but not of
sufficient importance to bind singly, were classified and bound
in volumes.  Disposed of in this way they were no longer
counted singly, but collectively as volumes.
3. Those worthy of preservation, but not of sufficient
importance to catalogue, were classified and disposed of in
such a manner as to be available if wanted. These are known
as pamphlets and reported as such.
Of the first class, that is, those of sufficient interest to
bind singly, 3, I oo have been bound. Of the second class, 3,185
* The above number of volumes is the number remaining after a
reduction has been made for lost and worn out books.




OCTOBER MEET1ING, [902.


101


have been bound in 163 volumes, averaging about 20 to the
volume. Where there have not been enough of a class to
form a volume, a volume has been begun in a temporary case.
These temporary cases receive the proper volume number and
go upon the shelves, and the pamphlets they contain are catlogued. When a sufficient number to form a volume have
accumulated they are permanently bound and the temporary
case is available for similar use again.  Of the third class,
1,500 have been disposed of in the manner already described.
In regard to the quality of the binding put upon these
pamphlets, experience has demonstrated that when a number
are bound together, good material and good workmanship are
necessary, and this experience has guided us in the binding
of the classified pamphlets.
The greater number of pamphlets bound singly have generally been inexpensively bound. Such as were rare and of
exceptional value received coverings to correspond with their
contents.
The new arrangement of our maps, to which I alluded in
my last report, and which we hoped to accomplish during the
year, we were obliged to postpone for various reasons.
The total additions for the year were 9,539 volumes, distributed as follows: General Library, 7,355 volumes; Law Library,
800 volumes; Medical Library, 1,163 volumes; Dental Library,
io6 volumes; Homeeopathic Library, 115 volumes.
The number of periodicals regularly received was o000. Of
these 739 came to the General Library; 20 to the Law Library;
200 to the Medical Library; i6 to the Dental Library, and 25
to the Homceopathic Library.
Your appropriation for the purchase of books for the year,
including subscriptions to periodicals and the maintenance of
the bindery, was $i6,ooo.oo.  You divided this sum among
the several libraries as follows:
G eneral  Library................................................................,580  00
Law   L ibrary...................................................................  2,460  oo
M edical  Library.............................................................  2,460  00
D ental  L ibrary.................................................................  250  00
Hom oeopathic  Library........................................................  250  oo
Total.................................................................   6,ooo  oo




102


OCTOBER MEETING, r9o2.


THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
ADDITIONS.-Of the 7,355 volumes added to the General
Library, 3,711 were purchased, 3,085 were presented, and
559 were the result of binding periodicals.
EXPENDITURES. -The bills certified to by me for this
library, exclusive of the bindery bills, amounted to $8,649.47.
Of this sum $7,003.82 was for books and periodical publications received irregularly, and $1,645.65 was for annual subscriptions to periodicals for the year 1902.
For miscellaneous expenses for the year, you assigned to
the library the sum of $I,I96.00.    The expenditures were as
follows:
Day  Attendant in  Cloak  Room.......................................... 171  00
Evening  Attendant in  Cloak  Room.......................................  64  98
Stationery  and  Postage......................................................  04  39
Sundries, Catalogue  Cards, Readers' Slips, Etc.......................  278  80
Pay of two young ladies doing general work...........................  619 52
*Total...................................................................$  1,238  69
This account was therefore overdrawn $42.69.
The expenditures from the endowment funds were as follows:
Expended of the income of the Ford-Messer Fund......................$977 58
Expended  of the income of the Coyl Fund.................................  80  99
No draft was made upon the Goethe Fund.
According to the Treasurer's books the condition of the
three funds, July i, I902, was as follows:
Ford-Messer Fund ($20.000ooo) with unexpended interest added.....$24,375 77
Coyl Fund ($io,ooo) with unexpended interest added.................2,659 38
Goethe  Fund  with  interest (see below)....................................  206  09
IMPORTANT PURCHASES. - It has been the policy of the
Library Committee to use the income of the Ford-Messer
and Coyl Funds for the purchase of important sets of books
and not for single volumes. On this account the greater
number of the following valuable additions to the library for
the year must be credited to those funds.
*This sum is accounted for here as money used entirely for the General
Library. It should be said that it was drawn upon, also, for the miscellaneous expenses of the Medical, Dental, and Homceopathic Libraries.




OCTOBER MEETING, I902.                        103
I. Sargent's Silva of North America, Vols. I-I2 (Volumes 13
and  14 are yet to  be supplied)..........................................   $350  oo
2. Dugdale's Monasticon and History of St. Pauls. 9 Vols... I60 oo
3. De Rossi Bullettino di Arte Cristiana,I862-I895.............   I01 00
4. La  Grande  Encyclopeedie.  30 Vols..............................  97  oo
5. Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Vols.
I-39, Pt. 2, and  Index,  I785-I888............................................  250  oo
6. Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, Ist and 2nd series.
40   Vols...........................................................................  28  75
7.  The  Studio.  23  Vols.................................................  75  oo
8. Canina's L'Arichitettura Antica. 9 Vols. of Text and 3
Vols. of Plates.6........................................................   62 74
9. Acaddmie Royale des inscriptions et des belles-lettes. Paris:
I707-I808.   50  V ols............................................................  52  50
o1. Revue generale des Sciences pures et appliqudes. Vols 1-15. 45 90
II Galileo. Le opere. Edizione Nazionale. 9 Vols.............. 58 37
12. Mazois et Gau. Ruines de Ponpei. 4 Vols.................... 42 50
I3. Somer's Tracts.  13 Vols............................................  37  50
THE SHAKESPEARE AND GOETHE COLLECTIONS.-Mr. McMillan was not called upon for any contribution to the Shakespeare Library during the year. There were added to it,
however, by purchase from     the Library   funds, frorm   money
obtained by the sale of duplicates (about $50.00), and by
gifts from various individuals, 64 volumes. The whole number of volumes is now 5,082.
The original Goethe fund, contributed by German-American citizens of the State and others was $I,300.00.     By resolution of the Board, June, i886, the President of the University, the  Professor  of   the Germanic     Languages, and    the
Librarian were charged with the expenditure of the money
subject to the condition that when $1,ooo.oo had been used
the balance should be reserved as a fund and only the income of it expended. The sum constituting the fund would
therefore be $300.00.      Unexpected    continuations of some
works carried the expenditure beyond the specified amount
($i,ooo.oo).   There will, therefore, be no further payments
from this fund until by the addition of interest or further contributions to the fund, the present balance is raised to the
required sum.    Some additions to the collection were made
during the year from    the regular book appropriation of the
German department, and these have raised the total of the
collection to 1,024 volumes.
GIFTS.-The friends of the University have kept the Li



104


OCTOBER MEETING, I902.


brary in remembrance as is evidenced by the number of volumes presented, viz., 3,085.
The Duke of Loubat has continued to send the reproductions of ancient Mexican manuscripts executed for him. Two
were received during the yearI. The Tonalamatl, of the Aubin Collection. Edited by Edw. Seler.
A reproduction of an old Mexican MS. in the National Library of France
with notes in English.
2. Codex Fejervary-Mayer, edited by Edw. Seler. A reproduction of a
MS. in the Liverpool Free Public Museum.
Volumes 144 and 145 of their " Minutes" were received
from the Institution of Civil Engineers of Great Britain.
From Miss Sarah Dorsey, of Marshall, Michigan, were received the two following works (bound together), of the celebrated Dr. Konrad Gesner, viz.,
I. Thierbucz.
2. Fischbuch.
These are parts of his Historia Animalia which was a summary of the knowledge of his time in regard to animal life.
The illustrations, which are numerous, are very curious.
A complete file of the Evening News (Detroit) for the year
was received from the publisher, James E. Scripps, Esq.
The Rev. Henrj C. Granger, of Chicago, of the Class of
'7I, whose gifts have been frequent and valuable, gave 56 volumes and 77 pamphlets.    The greater part of these were
Catholic works and they strengthen much our weak collection
of the books of that church.
From  Mr. Peter Schmidt, of Pontiac, were received the
numbers of the German periodical, Die Ilzustrirte Zeitung,
for sixteen years.
Mr. Kendall P. Brooks gave sets of the Baptist Missionary
Magazine, the Home Magazine (Baptist), and various church
reports.
The Missionary magazines are valuable not only for the
religious matter that they contain, but also for the geographical, ethnological, and linguistic matter contributed by foreign
missionaries.




OCTOBER M1EETING, 1902.


105


From H. P. Davock, Esq., of Detroit (Class of '70), 287
volumes of miscellaneous books were received. A number of
these were rare and valuable.
Dr. Mary M. Cutler, of the Medical Class of '88, and now
of Seoul, Corea, has for several years been sending us a number
of the periodical publications of that country. She gave us
last year 50 volumes of Corean books to which reference was
made in my report. Later she added another volume to her
gift. This was "An Atlas of the Chinese Empire, compiled in
the time of the Emperor Kung Leung of the Ching Dynasty."
It consists of 12 parts, brought together and held between
board covers by cords.
From Mr. William J. Howard, of Toronto, Canada, 8o
volumes relating to the Society of Friends were received.
They relate to the history and doctrines of the society. It
would be difficult to find eighty works on this subject of
more value than these. They were presented by Mr. Howard
as a memorial of his late wife, Anna Halleck Kelsey Howard,
a graduate of the Law Class of i880.
Mr. William Viennot, of the National Library of France,
sent volumes 6 and 7 of the Catalogue of printed books of
that library. He had previously sent the earlier volumes.
On my representation that we had a few numbers of the
Journal of the Diocese of Western Michigan, the Rt. Rev.
George D. Gillespie, Bishop of the Diocese, kindly sent such
others as were available for distribution.  These went'far
towards completing our set.
In the disposition of the books of President Tappan, his
Bible, in which he had himself recorded the marriage, births,
and deaths of the family, was secured by Professor Gabriel
Campbell, now Professor of Philosophy in Dartmouth College. Professor Campbell had for some time had the feeling
that the University ought to possess the volume, and in April
it was presented by him, and it now has its place in the
Library with other memorials of the first president of the
University.
In response to a solicitation made by President Angell
through the State Department at Washington, 54 volumes




106


OCTOBER MEETING, 1902.


relating to the Art Collections of France were received from
the government of that country. From the same source we
have for a number of years received, as published, the volumes
of the great historical publication Collection de Documents
inedits sur l'histoire de France. Two additional volumes of
this series came during the year. This generosity on the part
of the French government is highly appreciated.
Yale University issued in connection with her Bicentennial
Anniversary a series of publications representing the work Of
members of her Faculties. Copies of these publications, 29
in number, were sent to us with the compliments of Yale University. We received also from the University a copy of the
" Literary Diary of Ezra Stiles," edited by Franklin B. Dexter, 3 volumes.
Mr. Louis F. Post, editor and publisher of " The Public,"
contributed Vols I-4 of that publication, bound.
Hon. A. M. Todd, of Kalamazoo, presented through Dr.
A. B. Prescott, a copy of Das Buch zu Distilierendie, von
Hieronimus Brunsschwig, Strasburg, 1532. In this volume
the operations of distilling, as then practiced, are profusely
illustrated by two hundred quaint wood cuts.
Dr. H. S. Jewett, of Dayton, Ohio, of the Class of '68,
gave 19 volumes. Among them were three exceedingly rare
medical books of the sixteenth century for which we had been
looking for some time without success. There was also a fine
copy of the third edition of Dr. Johnson's Dictionary, 2 vols,,
folio, 1765.
Professor Kelsey, during his residence in Rome in I900 -I90o, as Director of the American School of Classical Studies, found for sale at exceptionally low prices, a number of
exceedingly valuable books for the work of his department.
As it was impossible to pay for the more expensive ones from
the Library Fund he represented the matter to Hon. D. M.
Ferry, of Detroit, who authorized the purchase at his own expense. They were the great work of De Rossi, La Roma
Sotterranea Cristiana, in 4 folio volumes, and Garrucci's Storia
della arte Cristiana, in six folio volumes.




OCTOBER MEETING, I902.


107


Professor J. M. Hart, of Cornell University, gave five
important works on literary subjects.
It gives me pleasure to acknowledge here a very courteous
act on the part of the Canadian government.       I had applied
to the Secretary of the Interior at Ottawa for maps showing
the Forests Reserves of the Dominion.     He replied that these
were not on any maps, but that he would have their location
shown, in color, on existing maps, and forward them. After a
very little delay the maps, eight in number, with the promised
additions, were received.
Sundry gifts of books and pamphlets are acknowledged
from President Angell, from Professors Adams, Kelsey,
Hempl, Demmon, and Freer; from Dr. S. A. Green, of Boston,
Edwin S. Balch, of Philadelphia, Miss Pease, of this city,
the Ann Arbor High School, and many other sources.
On solicitation, the following trade journals of the country
were sent to the library by their proprietors:
I. Illustrated Glass and Pottery World. Chicago.
2. American Carpet and Upholstery Journal. Philadelphia.
3. St. Louis Lumberman. St. Louis.
4. Butchers and Packers Gazette. St. Louis.
5. Dry Goods Economist. New York.
6. National Provisioner. New York.
7. The Tradesman. Chattanooga, Tenn.
8. The Manufacturers Record. Baltimore.
9. Book-Keeper. Detroit.
Io. Horseshoers' Journal. Detroit.
If. Indicator and National Journal of Insurance. Detroit.
12. Motorman and Conductor. Detroit.
I3. Trade and the "Storekeeper." Detroit.
I4. The Grand Rapids Furniture Record.
I5. Threshermen's Review. St. Joseph, Michigan.
I6. The Chicago Grocer.
I7. The Lumber Trade Journal. New Orleans.
USE OF THE LIBRARY ---The report of Mr. Finney, assistant in charge of circulation, sustains the opinion expressed
during the year that there was an unwonted activity on the
part of our readers.     The recorded   use of books was as
follows:
Recorded circulation in Reading Room and Seminary Rooms...I58,o36 vols.
Drawn  for home use by Professors.......................................  9,913   "
Total.........................       67,949 "




108


OCTOBER MEETING, 102.


This is io per cent. over the recorded circulation of last
year.  As I have had occasion to say before, this recorded use
represents no more (if actually that) than one-half of the
use of the library.  Our inter-library loans amounted to 6i
volumes.*
The daily average of readers in the Reading Room was
I75. The occasions were frequent when all of the seats (2Io)
were filled, and no temporary accommodation that we could
provide was adequate. At such times we felt obliged to permit an overflow to the stairways in the halls.
The number of students admitted to the stacks under the
two-months rule was 75-the full number entitled to admission.
During the two semesters, 424 students were admitted to
the Seminary Rooms, as follows: 120 to the East Room     for
the study of History, Political Economy, Pedagogy, Philosophy, and Mathematics; 304 to the West Room for the study of
Language, Literature, and Art.  It should be said here that
these rooms are overcrowded, while many whose work requires
facilities of this nature cannot be accommodated at all.
During the holiday vacation a scarcity of coal made it necessary to shut off the heat from all buildings except the Hospitals and that part of University Hall devoted to administration.  As a number of students were remaining in town in
order to use the library, which was of course uninhabitable,
the rule requiring the use of books in the building was suspended and the doors opened for an hour each day for issuing
books to students to use in their rooms.  About oo volumes
were issued daily in this way and no losses resulted.
CONDITION OF THE LIBRARY.-I have several times referred
to the favorable influences exerted upon the condition of the
library by the presence of the bindery. With the ability to make
necessary repairs at once there is no excuse for broken bindings
* For some years it has been the practice of the better equipped institutions to loan their books, if not in demand at home, to scholars in other
institutions who desired to consult them for short intervals. The loan is not
made directly to the individual, but to the library of the institution with
which he is connected, which assumes financial responsibility for the loan,
and is responsible also for the cost of transportation.




OCTOBER MEETING, I902.


109


and loose leaves, and I am glad to say that in the particular of
repairs the library is in good condition.
For the first time in several years we have been able to
make an inspection of the departmental, or outlying, collections. This was done by Mr. Severance, the General Assistant. I am sorry to report that some of these collections were
found in a very unsatisfactory condition.  The action of the
Board for their establishment was taken March 21, I894. Two
things required by the resolution adopted were:
i. Proper cases for the reception of the books.
2. Responsibility of the head of the department for their safety.
It was found that in some cases'this responsibility had been
delegated to persons whose tenure of office was of a brief
nature, and whose successors did not take over this duty. This
has been to the detriment, or loss, of the books.  In the most
serious case-that of the Nurses' Library at the Hospital-I
have withdrawn the. books until their safety shall be better
assured. It is quite evident that in the case of these collections
frequent inspection by the library force is necessary.  The
completion of the reclassification of the library last year made
an examination of them possible during the year under consideration. An annual examination is on our schedule of work
for the future-and oftener if circumstances seem to require it.
There were many volumes that could not be found when
the library was reclassified and the outlying collections examined. The result of a painstaking search by Mr. Finney
during the summer was the finding of about half of these. He
is of the opinion that careful observation and checking during
the coming year will reduce the number much more.
The books missed in the operations of the year, and of
which no traces have been yet found, are more than I have ever
before reported for a single year.  The list is as follows:
Adams, H. C.-Science of Finance. 1898.
Baker, G. P.-Principles of Argumentation. I895.
Bennett, C. E.-Latin Grammar. I895.
Diez, F.-Zwei altromanische Gedichte. 1852.
Fiske, John.-Destiny of Man. I866.
'   " -Idea of God. 1887.




110


OCTOBER MEETING, T902.


Hegel.-Introduction to the Study of the Fine Arts. Tr. by Bosanquet. I886.
McLaughlin, A. C.-Lewis Cass (American Statesmen Series).
Marshall, A.-Principles of Economics. Vol. I. All published. 1891.
Matthews, Brander.-Introduction to the Study of American Literature. I896.
Matson, H.-References for Literary Workers. 1892.
Roosevelt, T.-Winning of the West. Vols. I-3.
Russell, I. C.-Glaciers of North America. I897.
"        " "  Lakes of North America. 1895. 2 copies.
"    " " -Rivers of North America. 1898.
Strong, Josiah.-The New Era. 1893.
Ten Brink.-Five Lectures on Shakespeare.
Weil, H.-Order of Words in the Ancient Languages. Tr. by Super.
I887.
In all, 21 volumes.
It should be said that almost all of these were books of reference, permanently shelved in the Reading Room and accessible to all, or placed there as temporary reference books in
response to requests from professors.   This experience has led
to the locating of all books behind the desk, except those
of common reference.
Some mutilations of books and periodicals were discovered
during the year, but not many.     Attempts were made to discover the persons who had been guilty of these outrages, but
without success.
THE WORK OF THE YEAR.-This has been very largely
the routine work only.      The unusual increase in the use
of the library with which the year began, and the fact that the
desk attendants are all of them new to the work, made an addition to this branch of the force necessary.     At the October
meeting of the Board relief was given in this particular by the
employment of two additional attendants.
The following may be specified as extra work accomplished:
I. Completion, practically, of the change in the method of disposing of
pamphlets.
2. Examination of outside collections.
3. Completion of an additional case for engravings and photographs, and
the preparation and placing of these,




OCTOBER MEETING, 1902.


111


4. Completion, as far as possible, of files of college catalogues and reports,
and their systematic arrangement.
5. Much more reference work than heretofore.
6. Solicitation of free material on a wider scale than usual.
THE FORCE AND WORK FOR I902-Iq03. Mr. Jordan, Mr.
Finney, and Mr. Severance remain in the discharge of the duties
heretofore performed by them. Miss Lane and Miss Belser
will continue the work which they have been accustomed to do.
The desk attendants will be Mr. R. E. Andrews, Mr. G. W.
Barnum, Mr. M. A. Hodgdon, Mr. H. E. Olson, Mr. E. W.
Waldron, Mr. R. I. K. Wood, and Mr. H. M. Comins. The
two last named together cover only the full time of one man.
Mr. Ernest S. Bates will have charge of the East Seminary
Room and Mr. F. F. Potter charge of the West Room.
At its May meeting the Board authorized the employment
of a person whose duty it should be to receive all books drawn
in the Reading Room, when returned, duly credit them, and
arrange and classify them for return to the shelves. The compensation allowed was $750.0o. The employment of an assistant cataloguer was also authorized at $500.00. Mr. Edwin N.
Brown has been engaged for the former work at $600.00, and
Mr. L. L. Forsythe to assist him at $I50.oo. Miss Esther
Braley has been engaged as assistant cataloguer.
There are three things that we shall try to accomplish, over
and above the routine work.
i. The Improvement of the Catalogues. An item  of the
library budget passed by you in May was the enlargement of
the case containing the official catalogue. This will enable us
to put that important instrument in order. Both catalogues,
the official and the public, need to have many cards rewritten.
There are those that were not properly written at the outset,
and there are many others that are worn and soiled by constant
use. The assistant cataloguer whose employment was authorized
by you, will aid greatly in bringing this improvement about.
2. An Improved Arrangement of the Maps.-This arrangement we had planned to make last year, but failed to bring it




112


OCTOBER MEETING, I902.


about. You have authorized the furnishing of the map room,
and I do not think we shall fail to bring about the desired
result this year. In a former report I referred to the importance that maps have assumed in the work of instruction.
3. An Improved Arrangement of the Current Numbers of
Periodicals.-We have added considerably to the number of
our periodicals without any addition to our facilities for handling them. You have authorized the construction of new pigeon holes, which was a necessary preliminary of this work. At
the same time, by the proposed removal of the greater number
of the newspapers from the East Room to the basement, we
shall be able to afford the members of the faculties much needed
facilities for using the periodicals.
A NEED OF THE LIBRARY.-There is a matter that I think
it my duty to bring to your notice at this time. It is the
greater demand that is now made upon the fund set apart for
the purchase of books. For several years the annual appropriation of $I5,000.00 met the demand in a very gratifying way.
The current literature relating to existing departments of
instruction was kept up fairly well and we were able each year
to do something towards acquiring the desirable books of past
years. But the addition of new subjects to the curriculum in
recent years has changed this. Within three years the following new courses of instruction have been established, viz:
Administrative Law, Naval Architecture, Higher Commercial
Education, Forestry, Insurance-five new courses of instruction. Except for a few books, having a bearing on other subjects also, and touching these subjects only incidentally, there
was nothing in the library to serve as working material for these
courses. The absolutely necessary books have been provided
-at the expense, of course, of the old subjects-but a large outlay will be necessary to bring the literature of the new subjects
up and, afterwards, to keep it up.
I do not forget that more room is needed for books and
for readers, but this is already known to you and I will not take
time with what must be repetition.




OCTOBER AMEETING, I902.


113


THE OTHER LIBRARIES.
THE MEDICAL LIBRARY.-The additions to the Medical
Library were I,I63 volumes and 200 pamphlets. Of these, 716
volumes were purchased, 297 presented, and I50 were the result
of binding periodicals.
The total of bills certified to by me for this library was
$2,388.I5. Of this sum, $1,625.69 was for books and irregular periodical publications, and $762.46 was for subscriptions
to periodicals for I902.*
The gift of some rare volumes to this library, by Dr. H. S.
Jewett, of Dayton, Ohio, has already been referred to in this
report.
You appropriated in June, I901, $1,ooo.oo from the Bates
Professorship Fund, to be expended by the new Bates Professor of the Diseases of Women and Children, Dr. Peterson, in
bringing up the literature of his subject. Of this appropriation, $869.04 had been expended June 30, 1902, and unfilled
orders were out, covering the balance of $I30.96.
THE LAW LIBRARY.-The additions to the Law Library
were 800 volumes. Of these, 656 were purchased and I44
presented. The following particulars in regard to this library
I quote from the report of Professor V. H. Lane, Law Librarian:
"Our library force is made up of Miss Gertrude Elstner
Woodard, as Assistant Librarian, with Mr. Charles R. Loomis
assisting her. These persons, with what time I give to the work
of the library, seem to be caring very well for our present needs.
There has been put into the library during the summer vacation one large case for additions to our State Reports. I think
our accommodations are now adequate for our needs for at
least a year or two, provided we had a few feet of additional
shelving to relieve our text-book section, which could be
put in at a very little expense. I am pleased to note that during the past year we have commenced a card catalogue for our
*Of the above sum of $2,388.15, a part, $31I.09, was drawn from an
accumulation of money appropriated for the Dental Library. The literature
of one department in this case is in part identical with that of the other,




114


OCTOBER MEETING, I902.


text-book section of the library and shall increase it during the
present year as time can be found to do so. We hope soon to
have it in a condition where it will serve a very positive need
in the library.
"Since the close of the last college year the heirs of the
late Judge Thomas M. Cooley have very generously donated
to the library a number of books from his library as a memorial collection.  Our Faculty appreciate very deeply this
remembrance of one who was so long associated with this
Department, and whose great fame and learning gave to it so
much of that impetus which has carried it to its present high
standing.
"Judge Henry H. Swan, of the Eastern District of Michigan, has generously contributed Puffendorff's 'Observations
of the Universal Law,' and Grotius' 'War and Peace,' both
of which are fine copies of old editions bound in vellum."
THE DENTAL LIBRARY.-The additions to this library were
Io6 volumes, of which 20 were bought, 56 presented, and 30
were the result of binding periodicals. The bills certified to
by me for dental literature strictly, amounted to $76.73.
There was in addition a draft upon this appropriation of
$311.09 for medical literature to which reference has already
been made.
THE HOMCEOPATHIC LIBRARY. The additions to this
library were 115 volumes and 50 pamphlets. Of these, 63
volumes were bought, and 42 volumes and 50 pamphlets were
presented.
The principal gifts were a set of the Homeopathische
Monatsbldtter, I873-1901, from Dr. Richard Haehl, the editor,
and a quantity of desirable medical matter, consisting of
books, pamphlets, transactions and proceedings of societies,
etc., from Dr. G. W. Bowen, of Fort Wayne, Indiana. The
total of bills certified to was $218.52.




OCTOBER MEETING, I902.


115


THE BINDERY.
The outlay for the bindery during the year was as follows:
W ages..........................................................................   $2, 52 
Materials, less $I8.oo for waste gold  recovered..........................  444  6I
Total.........................................................$....2,596  71
The two following tables, prepared by Mr. Hollands, the
binder, show the nature of the work done, the cost of it, and
the distribution of the work among the departments.
The prices charged in making up the estimate of cost are
those generally charged in outside binderies.
Statement of Binding-July I901 to June 1902.


No. of      Estima-      Expense
Summary.                             ted Ex-         per
Pieces        pense.     Volume.
Bound and rebound, leather, vols.......    1,348     $,292.10     o0.96
Bound and rebound, cloth, vols.........   2,558        805.75      0.32
Repaired, resewed, etc., vols...........,060        269.33      0.25
Maps, charts, etc..................       64. 175
Labels and bookplates........347                       s08.14
Covers, cases, etc.....................       58          6.50
Extra lettering, class numbers.........,649         49.47
Plates guarded.....................         541          9. 8
Special work.........................         55        3500oo
Total..........................$2,597.85




116


OCTOBER MEETING, I902.


Distribution by Departments.
No. of      Estima-     Per Cent     Share
General Library.                         ted Ex-       of Ex-       of
Vol'mes.      pense.      pense.    Expense.
Bound and rebound, leather...........      998      $950.90
Bound and rebound, cloth.............   2,213        7I5.55
Repaired, resewed, etc................     771        I40.63
Maps, charts, etc..................        64         I.75
Labels and bookplates...............      469. 80
Covers, cases, etc.....................    58         16.50
Extra lettering, class numbers.........  x,649        49-47
Plates  guarded.......................    541         9.8
Special work........................       55         35.00
6,928      I,931.41       74.4   $I,93.95
Law Library.
Bound and rebound, leather...........      142        136.60
Bound and rebound, cloth.............        7         3.50
Repaired, resewed, etc...............     279        I24.50
Labels...............................    3,878       I06.34
4306        370.94        I4.3      37.33
Medical Library.
Bound and rebound, leather...........      I68        I67.50
Bound and rebound, cloth............      296         71.50
Repaired, resewed, etc...............        7          3.00
472        242.00        9.3       241.49
Homoeopathic Library.
Bound and rebound, leather...........        8          750
Bound and rebound, cloth............       34          II05
42          i855        0.7       i8. 8
Dental Library.
Bound and rebound, leather...........       32         29.60
Bound and rebound, cloth.............       8         4.I5
Repaired, resewed, etc...............        3          2.20
43         34.95        I.3        33.76
00o.0    $2,596.71
It is seen by referring to the first table that the cost of the
work at ordinary prices was $2,597.85. Comparing this with




OCTOBER MEETING, 1902.                       117
the actual cost for labor and materials, $2,596.7I, there is a
balance in favor of the bindery of $I.I4.   This is the smallest
balance yet reported, but such balances must always be affected
by the amount of material bought, as compared with that
used during the year. The number of employees was one
less than in the year before, and, in consequence, both output and expense were considerably reduced.
On the basis of the percentages shown in the second
table, the expense to be borne by each of the libraries is as
follows:
General  Library............................................................ $,93I  95
Law   Library....................................................................  37   33
Medical Library.............................................................  24I  49
Homoeopathic Library..........................................  I8 I8
D ental   Library.................I.............I...................................   33  76
Dental Lbrary..33 76
Total........................................................................ 2,596  7
The above amounts have been charged to the appropriations for the several libraries.
The following statement in regard to the bindery, from its
establishment in February, 1896, to July I, I902, will be of
interest:
Value of work done, based on outside prices...         $I5,263 59
Cost of  Plant........................................  715  90
Paid  out in  wages....................................  II,37I  58
Cost of  materials.....................................  3,18I  24  I5,268  72
Excess of outlay over value of work........            5 13
Value of Plant and Material on hand.....             1,200 00
To the credit of the bindery.........         $ I,94 87
I trust you will pardon me if, in concluding this report, I
call attention to the fact that it is my twenty-fifth annual
report as Librarian of the University, and that this year completes my twenty-ninth year of service in the Library.
When I assumed the duties of librarian in October, I877,
the Library occupied a part of the lower floor of the old Law
Building; now the Library Building is one of the largest on
the Campus; then there were upon the shelves 26,409 volumes;
now there are I65,ooo volumes; then the number of period



118


OCTOBER MEETING, i902.


icals taken was 88; now I,ooo are taken; then the recorded
use of the Library, which was practically the whole use, was
less than 50,000 volumes annually; now the recorded use,
which does not exceed one-half of the actual use, is 167,949
volumes; then the accessions for the year were 667 volumes;
this year 9,539 volumes were added; then the Library was open
for use IO1   hours daily; now it is open I44 hours; then the
force consisted of the Librarian, a lady doing clerical work,
and a lad to assist in serving readers; now the force consists
of the librarian, three assistants in charge of departments of
work, three other assistants, eight desk attendants, two persons in charge of seminary rooms, and a bindery force of four
persons.
Probably in no department of the University are the great
changes wrought in the last quarter century more apparent
than in this one.
The increase in the number of volumes in the time is creditable, but in this respect we have been outstripped by a number of other Universities. In the use of our books, however,
I am convinced that we have surpassed all others. I will
repeat what I have said in an earlier report, that the characteristic of the Ann Arbor student is the reading habit.
Very respectfully submitted,
RAYMOND C. DAVIS,
Librarian.
October I. I902.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the report was accepted
and ordered printed in the minutes, and it was also ordered
that 500 copies be furnished the Librarian for exchange with
other libraries.




OCTOBER MnEETING, 9go2.                                   119
The Treasurer presented and read his annual report,
which was accepted and ordered printed in the minutes.
TREASURER'S REPORT.
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, I902.
To the Finance Committee, Board of Regents, University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN: Herewith I submit my annual report for the fiscal year
ending June 30, I902.               Respectfully,      H. SOULE, Treasurer.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901.......................... $ 21,857 91
From State Treasurer, on acct. 1 mill tax for General
Expenses............................................  331,422  50
From accumulation of the '1 mill tax, Special Expenses,      71,298 35
From State Treasurer, on acct. of Special Appropriations...........................................    9,000 00
From State Treasurer, on account of University interest      38,285 47
Earnings and Miscellaneous Receipts..................... 269,245 26    $741,109 49
Disbursements.
Paid on account of General Expenses...................... 603,818 70
Paid on account of Special Appropriations..............      8,850 25
Paid on account of Accumulation of Savings.............     77,394 41
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902...............   51,046 13   741,109 49
GENERAL FUND.
RECEIPTS TO THE GENERAL FUND.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................$ 27,017 78
From State Treasurer, acct. University Interest.........     38,285 47
From State Treasurer, acct. of 14 Mill Tax............... 331,422 50
From Interest on Deposits.................................    898 73
From University Hospital Earnings.....................      39,204 33
From Homoeopathic Hospital Earnings...................      14,942 71
From Dental Operating Rooms............................      5,027 66
From Engineering Shops..........................     661 83
From Miscellaneous Sources..............................     5,110 81
From General Library, Duplicate Books Sold...........          101 94
From Students' Fees:
Literary Department..................$ 55,180 00
Literary Dept., Summer School.......       5,115 00
Engineering Department..............     21,365 00
Medical Department...................    20,995 00
Medical Dept., Summer School..........     1,150 00
Law Department.....................  40,195 00
Law Dept., Summer School............       1,158 00
Dental Department....................     8,335 00
Homceopathic Medical Department...        2,820 00
Pharmacy Department.................       3,225 00
Chemical Laboratory...................    11,731 75
Hygienic Laboratory.................      2,100 00
Zoological Laboratory.................      592 00
Botanical Laboratory..................      476 00
Physiological Laboratory..............      168 00
Pathological Laboratory..............     1,640 00
Histological Laboratory...........        1,771 00
Anatomical Laboratory...............      1,895 00
Mechanical Laboratory................     3,520 00
Pharmacological Laboratory..........        120 00
Electrotherapeutical Laboratory......        112 00
Dental Laboratory.....................      555 00
Medical Demonstrations.............       5,890 00




120


OCTOBER MEETING, I902.


Electrical Engineering, Physics.......    $631 00
Key Deposits............................    465 00
Drawing Boards.......................       297 00
Waterman Gymnasium................         2,917 50
Barbour Gymnasium.................     638 00
Diplomas...............................   8,240 00  $203,
Total Fees......................$ 203,297 25
Fees refunded..........            6,872 99
Students' Fees, Net............$ 196,424 26
DISBURSEMENTS FROM THE GENERAL FUND.
General Pay Roll..............................$ 176,579 44
Summer School, Literary, Pay Roll.......         6,545 00 $183,]
Summer School, Literary, Current Expenses,
Law Department, Pay Roll....................    39,184 00
Summer School, Law, Pay Roll..............        1,556 00   40,7
Summer School, Law, Expenses..........
Law Library, Books......................                  2,
Law Department Expenses....................
Medical Department, Pay Roll...........         38,785 00
Medical Dept., Summer School, Pay Roll..      803 75  39,1
Medical Department, Expenses...............
Medical Dept., Summer School, Expenses...
Medical Department, Books...............2,]
Pharmacy and Chemical Dept., Pay Rolls....      24,453 26   24,
Pharmacy Department, Expenses..........12,(
Homoeopathic Medical College, Pay Roll.....       5,175 00   5,]
Homoeopathic Medical College,'Expenses....
Homoeopathic Medical College, Books.......
Dental College, Pay Roll....................... 13,240 00   13,
Dental College, Expenses......................6,(
Dental College, Books....................
Engineering Department, Pay Roll......          42,686 38   42,(
Engineering Department, Expenses...........
University Hospital, Pay Roll..........     12,791 83  12,]
University Hospital, Expenses........22,(
Homceopathic Hospital, Pay Roll.........         4,337 09   4,I
Homceopathic Hospital, Expenses.............14,1
Book Bindery, Pay Roll........................   2,152 10   2,]
Repairs, Pay Roll..............................     783 25
Addition to Heating Plant, Pay Roll..........       913 90,297 25 $ 665,971 01
124 44
372 77
740 00
81 28
135 77
805 82
588 75
131 70
31 75
124 31
153 26
)55 64
175 00
[54 34
118 38
240 00
)38 29
364 33
386 38
370 34
791 83
324 52
137 09
534 94
152 10
783 25
)13 90
501 14
336 90
731 59
206 36
580 69
134 30
135 15
372 17
302 34
151 35
287 25
578 33
742 71
123 19
)97 04
)94 98
199 72
557 04
509 04
125 76
352 45
144 51
216 91
122 44
187 26
L11 90
133 09
101 59
10 00


Amount of Salaries Paid from General Fund, $369,986 00
Contingent account.......................
Repairs account................................
Fuel account....................................
Lights account..................................
Books for General Library.....................
Current Expenses for General Library.......
Materia Medica..............................
Postage..........................................
Advertising and Printing......................
Museum.............................
Botanical Gardens..............................
Botanical Laboratory.....................
Histological Laboratory.......................
Hygienic Laboratory...........................
Zoological Laboratory....................
Anatomical Laboratory........................
Engineering Laboratory.......................
Pathological Laboratory.......................
Physiological Laboratory......................
Engineering Shops.............................
Civil Engineering............................
School Inspection..............................
Observatory...........................
Physics, Electrical Engineering...............
Surgical Demonstrations......................
Surgical Clinic..............................
Electrotherapeutics...........................
Nervous Diseases..............................
Mineralogy....................


9,P
10,f
19,1
2,f
8,1
1,]
1,(
2,1
3,1
2,|
1,1
]
]
]




OCTOBER MEETING, I902.


121


Waterman Gymnasium........................
Barbour Gymnasium..........................
Students' Fees Refunded......................
Philosophy.....................................
Carpenter Shop Supplies.....................
Teams.....................................
Geology........................................
Electrical Supplies.............................
Ophthalmology...............................
Dermatology...................................
Latin............................................
Music...........................................
Theory and Practice...........................
Heating Supplies...............................
General Catalogue............................
Commencement Expenses....................
Appointment Committee.....................
G erm  an........................................
Diplomas.......................................
Greek.........................................
Addition to Heating Plant....................
University Laundry............................
Water Supply.................................
Alumni Association...........................
Asylum    Pathologist...........................
English Philology.....................
E nglish.........................................
Semitics.......................................
Naval Architecture............................
American History.............................
History.........................................
French..........................................
Michigan Law Review........................
Refunded to State Treasurer..................
Transfer to Accumulation of Savings-Special A ccount..................................
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902........


$862 19
130 85
6,872 99
246 71
1,078 95
1,227 30
201 04
720 77
23 89
18 92
390 39
160 94
165 75
1,721 06
2,920 26
966 45
118 70
16 45
1,547 45
185
26,135 26
4,556 80
1,858 57
1,400 00
29 81
500
49 28
227 48
298 79
40 85
52 52
11 75
300 00
42,082 30
1,255 34
60,896 97  $665,971 01


SPECIAL FUND ACCOUNTS.
Homoeopathic Medical College.
Receipts.
From   State Treasurer.............................$.
Disbursements.
Balance Overdrawn, July 1,1901.....................
Paid Vouchers, Pay Roll..........................
Electric Light Plant.
Receipts.
Balance Overdrawn, June 30, 1902........................
Transfer from General Fund account....................
Disbursements.
Balance Overdrawn, July 1, 1901..........................
Summer Hospitals.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer.....................................
Disbursements.


6,000 00
174 35
5,825 65
184 54
55 34
239 88


$ 6,000 00
6,000 00
239 88
239 88
3,000 00
3,000 00


3,000 00


Paid Vouchers..............................................   3,000   00
Accumulation of Savings, Law Building.
Receipts.




Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901........................
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers............................


12 51         12 51


12 51         12 51




122                 OCTOBER MEETING, I902.
Psychopathic Ward.
Receipts.
Balance Overdrawn, June 30, 1902........................       $24 60       $24 60
Disbursements.
Paid  Vouchers............................................     24  60       24  60
Accumulation of Savings, New Science Building.
Receipts.
Transfer from General account...........................     1,200 00      1,200 00
Disbursements.
Balance Overdrawn, July 1, 1901..........................     500 00
Paid  Vouchers.............................................    700  00     1,200  00
Accumulation of Savings, New Homoeopathic Hospital.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer....................................     4,258 15       4,258 15
Disbursements.
Balance Overdrawn July 1, 1901..........................    4,258 15       4,258 15
Accumulation of Savings. New Engineering Building.
Receipts.
Balance Overdrawn, June 30, 1902.........................       24 70        24 70
Disbursements.
Paid  Vouchers..........................................      24  70       24  70
Accumulation of Savings, New rledical Building.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer.....................................    67,040 20
Balance Overdrawn, June 30, 1902........................      9,147 02    76,187 22
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers.............................................  76,187 22  76,187 22
Accumulation of Savings, Repairs to Barbour Gymnasium.
Receipts.
Balance Overdrawn, June 30, 1902.........................      469 98       469 98
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers.........................................          469 98       469 98
Summary of Special Fund Balances.
Overdrawn.
Electric Light Plant.........................................   184 54
New Engineering Building................................        24 70
New Medical Building......................................    9,147 02
Repairs to Barbour Gymnasium..........................    469 98
Psychopathic   W ard........................................     24  60
$   9,850 84
GIFTS AND TRUST FUNDS.
Under this head are included gifts and other funds which the Regents
have received from time to time from benefactors for special purposes. The
new accounts which have been opened by your treasurer during the year are
as follows: From the estate of Mrs. Love M. Palmer, twenty thousand dollars for a ward to be built at the University Hospital, as a memorial to her
husband, the late Dr. Alonzo B. Palmer; from Theodore Buhl, of Detroit, a




OCTOBER MEETING, I902,


123


fund to be called the Buhl Classical Fellowship Fund; and from the sale of
Detroit land, the fund named the Walter Crane Fund.
Philo Parsons Fund.
Receipts.


Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................$         $105 27
Interest.....................................................          3  19  $
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902........................            108 46
Goethe Fund.


108 46
108 46


Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901........................
Interest.....................................................
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30,1902.........................


200 02
607          206 09
206 09         206 09


Elisha Jones Classical Fellowship Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901.........................
Interest.....................................................
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902........................
Coyl Collection.
Receipts.


8 95
21


9 16


9 16  9 16


Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................
Interest.....................................................
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers.............................................
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902.........................
Buhl Law Library Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901.....................
Interest.....................................................
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers..............................................
Balance in Treasury, June 30,1902.........................
Seth Harrison Scholarship Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1,1901.........................
Interest.....................................................
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers..............................................
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902........................


12,299 20
539 30


12,838 50


179 12
12,659 38    12,838 50


602 42
16 08


618 50


75 75
542 75         618 50
27,874 15
1,778 16      29,652 31
600 00
29,052 31      29,652 31


Class of Ninety=Four Scholarship Fund.
Receipts.


Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................
Contributions 
Interest...........................................
Disbursements.


1,450 67
31 00
44 74


1,526 41


Balance in Treasury, June 30, 190......................,.   1,526 41


1,526 41




124


OCTOBER MEETING, I902.


Ford-Messer Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................
Interest.........................


$25,424 70
917 54    $26,342 24


Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers.............................................       1,966 47
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902.....................   24,375 77     26,342 24
The Phillips Scholarships Funds.


Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901.........................
Interest....................................................
From estate rentals.......................................
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers, Expenses..................................
Paid Vouchers, Scholarships Awarded....................
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902.........................
Ilusic Hall Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................
Interest.....................................................
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902........................


651 10
15 79
146 90
113 24
150 00
550 55


813 79
813 79


1,291 58
39 18     1,330 76
1,330 76   1,330 76


Class of Ninety=Seven Scholarship Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................        160 95
Interest...................................................  16   58
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902.....................           177 53
Class of Ninety=Eight Scholarship Fund.


Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................
Interest...................................................
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902.......................
American School at Rome.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................
Interest.....................................................
Contributions......................................
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers.......................................
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902.........................
Parke, Davis & Co. Fund.
Receipts.
Contribution.............................................
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers..............................................
Stearns Pharmacy Fellowship Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................
Contribution...............................................
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers.............................................
Balance in Treasury, June 30,1902.........................


279 14
7 56
286 70
10 00
11
280 00
290 00
11


177 53
177 53
286 70
286 70
290 11
290 11


500 00        500 00
500 00        500 00


1 56
350 00
350 00
1 56


351 56
351 56




OCTOBER MEETIN~G, roo2.
Library of Early Christian Literature.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901........................
Interest..................................................
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30,1902.........................
Special Latin Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..................
Interest....................................................
Contributions..............................................
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers.......................
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902.........................
Good Government Club.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................
Interest.....................................................
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902........................
Peter White Fellowship.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................
Contribution...............................................
Interest...................................................


125


$8 08
12   $8 20
8 20   8 20


31 99
32
63 36
93 35
2 32
634 71
19 18
653 89


95 67
95 67
653 89
653 89
837 94


422 14
400 00
15 80


Disbursements.
Paid  Vouchers.......................................  400  00
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902........................   437 94       837 94
Woman's Professorship Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901........................  10,525 00
Interest...............................................  696  95  11,221  95
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30,1902...................  11,221 95  11,221 95
Ninety-Nine Law Class Scholarship Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901.......................       31 40
Interest......................................................    72       32  12
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902........................    32 12        32 12
Williams Professorship Fund.
The care of the Williams Professorship Fund has been partly in the
hands of the Treasurer, and partly in the hands of Hon. Levi L. Barbour,
of Detroit. In June, I902, Mr. Barbour, on being appointed Regent, withdrew from the active management of the fund, and presented a report covering the transactions to the I7th of that month. His place has been taken
by Mr. George S. Field. A summary of the report of Mr. Barbour is given
in an appendix to the present report (See Appendix A). The report on the
portion in the hands of the Treasurer is as follows:


Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901.....................$
Interest................................
Disbursements.
Paid  V ouchers..............................................
Balance in Treasury, June 30,1902.............


4,027 67
121 87


4,149 54


50 00
4,099 54     4,149 54




126


OCTOBER MEETING, r902.
Biological Fund.


Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901.........................
Contribution...............................................
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers..........................................
Balance.in Treasury, June 30, 1902.......................
Morris Alumni Fund,
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901.........................
Interest....................................................
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902.........................
Bates Professorship Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901, Cash and Loans.......
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901, Property..............
Interest..................................................
From   Rentals.............................................
From Sale of Property....................................
Disbursements.
Annuity to Legatee...................................
Salaries of Professors and Assistants...................
Instruments, Apparatus, and Laboratory Supplies......
B ooks.................................................
Care of Property, Expenses, Taxes, etc...................
Loss on Loan.......................
Transfer to Cash acct., Property Sold...................
Balance in Cash acct. June 30, 1902........................
Balance in Property acct. June 30, 1902..................
D. M. Ferry Botanical Fund,


$50 00
50 00
50 00
50 00


$100 00
100 00


2,590 75
127 92     2,718 67
2,718 67    2,718 67


103,761 18
30,710 48
3,470 94
3,646 51
1,287 05
1,200 00
2,700 00
1,084 63
862 36
3,740 00
325 00
1,287 05
102,253 69
29,423 43


142,876 16
142,876 16


Receipts.
Contribution...............................................
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers............................................
Class of Ninety=Nine Memorial Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901.........................
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902.......................
Newton Van der Veer Loan Fund,


500 00        500 00
500 00        500 00


6 35  6 35
6 35  6 35


Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................
Contribution...............................................
Interest.....................................................
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902........................
Students' Lecture Association Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................
Interest...........................................
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902......................


155 14
50 00
5 45
210 59
966 94
38 39


210 59
210 59




1,005 33


1,005 33    1,005 33




OCTOBER MEETING, I902.
Liquid Air Plant.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901.........................
Interest.....................................................
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902.........................


127


$12 40
09
12 49


$12 49
12 49


James W. Scott Classical Fellowship Fund.


Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................
Interest...................................................
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers...................................
Balance in Treasury, June 30,1902.........................
International Club Scholarships.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................
Interest.................................................
Money Returned to the Fund............................
Disbursements.
Annual Allowance to Students............................
Special Allowance to Students..........
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902........................


342 91
76
326 74
16 93


343 67
343 67


4,565 00
116 25
100 00     4,781 25


1,155 00
100 00
3,526 25


4,781 25


Hannah EF Davis Allopathic Hospital Fund.


Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................
Interest.....................................
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902.......................
Pilgrim Publishing Co. Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1,1901..........................
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers............................................
Warner Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................
Interest....................................................
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902........................
Gas Association Fellowship Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901.......................
Contribution......................
Balance Overdrawn June 30,1902..........................
Disbursements.
Paid  Vouchers.............................................


2,100 59
63 71     2,164 30
2,164 30     2,164 30


300 00        300 00
300 00       300 00


1 02
03
1 05


1 05
1 05


43 28
500 00
42 43
585 71


585 71
585 71


Nelson, Baker & Co. Fellowship Fund.
Receipts.
Contribution..............................................  500  00
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers...........................   500 00


500 00


500 00




128


OCTOBER MEETING, I902.
Palmer Memorial Ward.


Receipts.
From Estate of Mrs. Love M. Palmer.....................
Disbursements.
Paid  Vouchers........................................
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902.......................
Walter Crane Fund.
Receipts.
From Sale of Property....................................
Interest...............................................
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30,1902........................
Chemical Apparatus Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1901..........................
Interest.......................................
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1902......................
Buhl Classical Fellowship.
Receipts.
Contribution.....................................
Disbursements.
Paid  Vouchers.............................................


$20,000 00       $20,000 00
2,067 70
17,932 30        20,00 00


1,165 60
3 00
1,168 60
101 00
6 67
107 67


1,168 60
1,168 60
107 67
107 67


500 00        500 00
500 00        500 00


SUMMARY OF TRUST FUND BALANCES.


CASH
IN BANK.
Philo Parsons Fund................$  108 46
Elisha Jones Fund..................     9 16
Goethe Fund.....................   206 09
Buhl Law Library Fund.............      542 75
Coyl Collection Fund...............  4 659 38
Seth Harrison Scholarship Fund..      16,552 31
'94 Scholarship Fund...............   1,526 41
Ford-Messer Library Fund.......     15,875 77
Stearns Pharmacy Fellowship Fund         1 56
Phillips Scholarships Fund..........   550 55
American School at Rome Fund....          11
Special Latin Fund................       2 32
Early Christian Literature Fund...      8 20
International Club Fund...........   3,526 25
Biological Fellowship Fund.........     50 00
'97 Class Scholarship Fund...........   127 53
'98 Class Scholarship Fund...........   286 70
'99 Class Memorial Fund....-....... 6 35
'99 Law Class Scholarship Fund.....     32 12
Bates Professorship Fund..........  17,313 69
Bates Professorship, Real Estate....
Morris Alumni Fund................   2,243 67
Williams Professorship Fund....      4,099 54
Williams Professorship in charge of
Mr. George S. Field.........       487 36
Good Government Club Fund.......        653 89
Woman's Professorship Fund.......    11,221 95
Newton Van der Veer Loan Fund..        210 59
Students' Lecture Association Fund      705 33
Liquid Air Plant Fund..............     12 49
Hannah Elizabeth Davis Allopathic
Hospital Fund........         2,164 30
Peter White Fellowship Fund.......      437 94


INVESTED IN
LOANS OR         TOTAL.
REAL ESTATE.
108 46
9 16
206 09
542 75
8,000 00         12,659 38
12,500 00         29,052 31
1,526 41
8,500 00         24,375 77
1 56
550 55
11
2 32
8 20
3,526 25
50 00
50 00            177 53
286 70
6 35
32 12
84,940 00
29,423 43        131,677 12
475 00          2,718 67


12,262 10       16,849 00
653 89
11,221 95
210 59
300 00         1,005 33
12 49
2,164 30
437 94




OCTOBER MEETING, Io02.                                      129
Music Hall Fund.....................      $1,330 76                        $1,330 76
Chemical Apparatus Fund..........           107 67                            107 67
Warner Fund...................        1 05                              1 05
James W. Scott Fellowship Fund....            16 93                             16 93
Walter Crane Fund..................        1,168 60                         1,168 60
Palmer Memorial Ward..............         17,932 30                        17,932 30
$ 104,180 08     $   156,450 53   $ 260,630 61
Gas Association Fund, Overdrawn..             42 43                             42 43
$ 104,137 65     $   156,450 53   $ 260,588 18
APPENDICES.
APPENDIX A.
WILLIAMS PROFESSORSHIP FUND.
In July, 1898, by order of the Board of Regents, a portion of the property
belonging to the Williams Professorship Fund was placed in the hands of Hon.
Levi L. Barbour, of Detroit, for management.
The following statement, compiled and rearranged from the report of Mr.
Barbour, shows the changes in the condition of the fund from June 30, 1901, to
June 17, 1902:
Receipts.
Cash Balance, June 30, 1901................................$    823 77
Mortgages (Payments on Principal).....................  1,132 00
Land Contract (Payment on Principal)..................           50 00
*Sale of Land (Cost $400.00).....................      446 24
Interest on Loans, Contracts, and Deposits..............          569 34   $ 3,021 35
Disbursements.
Loans on Mortgages.......................................      2,525 00
T axes....................................................       2   70
Com  m issions...............................................    3  54
Fees......................................................          2 75
Cash Balance, June 17, 1902..............................       487 36      3,021 35
The value of the property in the hands of Mr. Barbour, June 17, 1902 (partly
estimated) is given as follows:
Cash  Balance...........................................  $  487  36
Real Estate Mortgages...................................      9,745 00
Land  Contract...........................................     750  00
Real Estate, Cost...........................................    1,767  10
$12,749 46
Value, June 30,1901.....................................                12,142 87
Net Gain during Year..................................                   $   606 59
APPENDIX B.
Contributions to the Ninety-four Class Scholarship Fund during the year
ending June 30, 1902:
George  Ingersoll...........................................................  11  00
Lewis Grover   Seeley..........................................................  20  00
31 00
* In Mr. Barbour's report (see proceedings of June Meeting, pages 70 and 71),
this transaction appears as a receipt of $146.24 in cash, and an addition of $300.00
to the amount of mortgages held.




130           OCTOBER MEETING, I902.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Librarian was requested to ascertain the feasibility of using a small printing press
in connection with the bindery of the University, and to report at the next meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Dean, the Library Committee of the
Board were authorized to furnish the necessary tables and
cases required in the Library.
The President presented the following communication
from the Dean of the Engineering Department, and the change
in the record therein asked for was ordered:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., October i, I902.
To the Honorable Board of Regents.
GENTLEMEN-The minutes of the meeting of the Board in
October, I90o (Proceedings, page 732, line 6), show that the
degree of Bachelor of Science (in Mechanical Engineering)
was conferred on Mr. W. S. Baldwin.   Mr. Baldwin was recommended by the Faculty of the Department of Engineering
for the degree of Bachelor of Science (in Chemical Engineering).
I trust it will be possible to change the records of the
Board to conform to the recommendation of the Faculty.
Yours respectfully,
CHAS. E. GREENE,
Dean of the Department of Engineering.
On motion of Regent Hill, Mr. E. S. Corwin was appointed Assistant in History for one year at a salary of $500
by the full vote of the Board.
The President stated that the terms of service of the following persons had expired, and that they should be reappointed
for the present eollege year:
H. B. Hutchins, LL. D., Lectureiron Medical Jurisprudence in the
Department of Medicine and Surgery, without salary.
Norman  A. Wood, Taxidermist, salary....................................  $700
H. O. Severance, Assistant in Library, salary...........................  9oo
E. S. Gilmore, Superintendent of University Hospital, salary........  1,500
R. E. Atchison, M. D., Superintendent of Homoeopathic Hospital, salary...............................................................  8oo
G. A. May, M. D., Instructor in Waterman Gymnasium, salary......,200
The foregoing appointments were made on a call vote of
the Board.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1902.


131


On motion of Regent Dean, Mr. Roscoe B. Jackson, B. S.,
was reappointed for one year as assistant to the Dean of the
Engineering Department, salary, $300, and Mr. Charles B.
Davis was appointed Instructor in Surveying for the first
semester only at a compensation of $450, by the full vote o'f
the Board.
Regent Dean presented and read the following communication from the Dean of the Department of Engineering, and
the degrees recommended were conferred upon the persons
named therein by the full vote of the Board:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., October 7, I902.
To the Honorable Board of Regents, University of Michigan.GENTLEMEN-By a vote of the Faculty, I have the honor
to submit the names of the following students for degrees:
Clifford' Moses Pritchard for the degree of Bachelor of
Science in Civil Engineering.
William Cornelius Swartout for the degree of Bachelor of
Science in Civil Engineering.
Henry Archibald McLean, B. S. in Mechanical Engineering, Class of 900o, for the degree of Bachelor of Science in
Electrical Engineering.
Richard William Runge, B. S. in Mechanical Engineering,
Class of 900o, for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering.
Royal John Mansfield, B. S. in Civil Engineering, Class
of 900o, for the degree of Civil Engineer.
Respectfully yours,
CHAS. E. GREENE,
Dean of the Department of Engineering.
The following communication from the Dean of the Engineering Department was presented by Regent Dean, and the
recommendations therein contained were approved by the
Board:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., October 7, I902.
To the Honorable Board of Regents, University of Michigan..
GENTILEMEN-As Professor Cooley has been detained
longer than he expected to be, on account of an engagement
which he had made previous to the opening of the semester,
and as it was necessary to arrange for the carrying on of his




132


OCTOBER MEETING, 1902.


work in his absence, at his suggestion the services of Mr. Willcox have been secured for this purpose.
Mr. Willcox is the gentleman who had charge of Professor
Cooley's work during his absence on the state railroad appraisal last year. Mr. Willcox will, of course, be paid by
Professor Cooley, but I thought it desirable to obtain your
sanction for his employment as a substitute.
Professor Cooley now expects to be here early next week.
Very respectfully yours,
CHAS. E. GREENE,
Dean of the Department of Engineering.
The Board requested Regent Farr to act as Secretary during the temporary absence of Secretary Wade. In his absence
the following action was taken by the Board:
Resolved, That the Board of Regents give to Secretary
Wade a leave of absence for two months, to be taken at such
time as he may see fit, and in case he shall desire to devote
the whole or any part of the time to an examination of the
system of finance in force at Eastern colleges, that the sum of
two hundred dollars be and is hereby appropriated by the
Board to cover his expenses, and that the salary of the Secretary be continued during his absence.
GEORGE A. FARR,
Acting Secretary.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the Treasurer was requested to have his annual report printed and to send proof
sheets of same to each member of the Board for consideration.
The request of Dr. Prescott that the $2,500, which was
transferred from the budget of the Chemical Laboratory to
that of Hygiene, be returned to his department to provide for
new lines of work to be taken up when physiological chemistry
is transferred to hygiene, was referred to the Medical and
Literary Committees for consideration with the request that they
report their conclusions at the afternoon session of the Board.
Regent Lawton moved that the resolution submitted at the
last meeting, whereby it was proposed to make Dr. Moses
Gomberg a Junior Professor, with a salary of $2,000, be taken




OCTOBER MEETING, 1902.


133


from the table and put upon its passage. The motion prevailed, and a call vote was taken with the following result:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Lawton, Dean, Hill, Barbour, and Fletcher.
Regents Farr and Carey not voting.
The Board then took a recess until 2 o'clock p; m.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. m.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Treasurer was directed to
open on the books of the University a special fund account
with the Walter Crane gift of certain real estate in the
City of Detroit, and to credit the said account with the proceeds of the sale of certain lots therefrom recently sold to the
City of Detroit.
The request of Professor Patterson that the Board substitute steel girders in certain rooms in the new Engineering
Building, thereby doing away with the necessity of using columns to support the floors, was denied.
On motion of Regent Farr, one hundred dollars, or so
much thereof as may be necessary, was appropriated for the
purpose of defraying the traveling expenses of Instructor
Kenyon L. Butterfield in working up his course in Rural
Sociology, by the full vote of the Board.
The request of Ernest Lutz, Janitor in the Library, for an
increase of $Ioo in his salary, was laid on the table for one
month.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the degree of Bachelor
of Laws was conferred upon Willard A. Knight, Edmund H.
Griffin, Charles N. Sumner and Joseph H. Drake, in accordance
with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department
of Law.
The President stated that Mr. Theodore D. Buhl, of
Detroit, had contributed $500 for a Classical Fellowship for
the year 1902-03, and the classical staff desired the appointment of Charles Rufus Morey as the holder of said fellowship. The Board confirmed the appointment of Mr. Morey
and requested the President to convey to Mr. Buhl the thanks
of the Board for his generous gift.




134


OCTOBER MEETING, 1902.


The President presented and read the following communication from Professor F. W. Kelsey:
ANN ARBOR, September 30, 1902.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents of the University of
Michigan.
GENTLEMEN-I have pleasure in reporting to you that the
annual contribution of one hundred dollars in the name of
the University. to the support of the American School of
Classical Studies in Rome was duly forwarded for the year
I90I-02, the sum having been generously provided by the
following friends of the University in Detroit:
Messrs. George W. Bates, J. H. Berry, Frank S. Bigler, John
S. Gray, Frank J. Hecker, Charles H. Jacobs, E. H. Nelson,
Mrs. Samuel L. Smith, and Mr. J. N. Wright.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANCIS W. KELSEY.
Regent Hill presented the following communication from
the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and the degrees indicated were conferred upon the persons named in the communication, by the full vote of the
Board:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., October 6, I902.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents.
GENTLEMEN-I have the honor to report that the Faculty
of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts recommend to you the following students for the degree
indicated:
FOR BACHELOR OF ARTS.
George John Balzer,
William Leslie Bowler,
Walter Channing Boynton,
Allen Meason Broomhall.
Carey Herbert Conley,
Will Stanley Cookson,
Lloyd Hugo Eriesson,
Clara Gertrude Fitzpatrick,
Roy Romanzo Peck,
Benjamin Rice Phelps,
Nina Streeter,
Oswald William Visscher,
Estus Eugene Webster,
Robert Dawson Williamson.




OCTOBER MEETING, IQo2.


135


FOR MASTER OF ARTS.
Winifred Campbell Daboll,
Victor Dean Hawkins,
Mary Olive Hunting,
Lindley Pyle,
Vernon Justin Willey.
FOR DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY.
Walter David Hadzsits.
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DEPONT.
On motion of Regent Hill, one additional Instructor in
Mathematics was authorized for the first semester of the present college year, with a salary of $450, by the full vote of the
Board.
Regent Hill moved that the salary of Mr. J. W. Scholl be
increased from $225 to $600 because of the additional work
required of him to meet the requirements of the Engineering
Department. The motion was carried on a call vote.
Regent Fletcher presented an itemized bill of $5,554.70
for extra work done by the contractor of the new Medical
Building, all of said work having been previously authorized
by action of the Board. On motion of Regent Fletcher the
account was allowed and the Treasurer was authorized to pay
Koch Brothers, contractors, $5,000 on account.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the bid of the Woodward
Lumber Company to furnish additional furniture for the new
Medical Building was laid on the table until the next meeting.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Treasurer was authorized to pay the American Blower Company $2,000 on account
of heating and ventilating the Library Building, by the unanimous vote of the Board.
The Ann Arbor Ice Company submitted a proposition to
supply the University with ice by the year at $I.50 per ton,
the same to be delivered at the various University buildings
as needed. After some discussion it seemed to be the consensus of opinion that the University should own and control
its own ice supply.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Committee on Buildings




136:


OCTOBER MEETING, 19a2.


and Grounds were empowered to purchase and install elevators
in the new Medical Building.
On motion of Regent Farr, it was voted that one Assistant
in Philosophy be employed for one year at a salary of $450.
The Board voted to give Professor F. W. Kelsey a leave of
absence of twenty-five days to enable him to give a course of
lectures at various points in the West.
On motion of Regent Lawton, $2,500 was added to the
budget of the Chemical Laboratory, by the full vote of the
Board.
Regent Lawton presented and read the following communication from Dr. A. B. Prescott, and the recommendations
therein contained were approved by the full vote of the Board.
ANN ARBOR, MICH., October 7, 1902.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents.
GENTLEMEN-I beg to recommend the following named
appointments for 1902-o3:
Mr. Edward Lucas to be continued as Dispensing Accountant in the Chemical Laboratory at $900 (Minutes, December, 1901, page 9).
Charles W. Edmunds, M. D., to succeed Dr. C. A. Good
as Assistant in Pharmacology with $200 from the budget of
the School of Pharmacy in addition to the $500 already
granted from budget of Department of Medicine and Surgery
(October, I901, page 735, and June, 1902, page 67).
Mr. Grant T. Davis, as Assistant in Organic Chemistry, at
$ioo, in place of Henry W. Berger, resigned (June, 1902,
page 62).
Lemuel W. Famulener, Ph.C., to be continued as holder
of the Nelson, Baker & Co. Fellowship of $500 and as Assistant in Pharmaceutical Research without salary from the University (October, I90o, page 735).
Mr. Harold C. Watkins to be continued as Assistant in
Research in Pharmacognosy, and Mr. Darrell H. Davis to
succeed C. R. Eckler as Assistant in Pharmaceutical Research,
both as holders of the Fellowship supported by the gift of
Messrs. Frederick Stearns & Co. of $350 for I902-03, and
both without salary from the University.
Thanks are due to the generous donors above mentioned
for their continued support of research in this University.
Respectfully submitted,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT.




OCTOBER MEETING, I902.


137


On the request of the United States Government, the leave
of absence of Professor P. C. Freer, who is now in the service
of the government in the Philippine Islands, was extended to
September, 1903.
Regent Lawton submitted the following communication
from Dr. V. C. Vaughan, Dean of the Medical Department,
and the recommendations therein contained were approved, as
indicated below, by the full vote of the Board:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., October 8, I902.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN-I am instructed by the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery to present to your Honorable Body the following requests:
I. That the title of Professor F. G. Novy be changed to
that of Professor of Bacteriology, and that his salary be $2,500
a year.
Last spring in granting the requests in the budget, you
provided for this increase in Dr. Novy's salary, but you have
never taken any formal action, changing his title from junior
to full professor.
2. That the title of Wilbur F. Bowen be changed from
Assistant in Physiology to Instructor in Physiology at a salary
of $900 a year. You also provided for this increase in the
budget last June but have never changed Mr. Bowen's title.
3. That John H. Crosby, A. B., be appointed Assistant
Demonstrator of Anatomy in place of Augustus Roth, who
was advanced to the grade of assistantship at your last meeting, at a salary of $200 a year.
4. That Miss Lillie T. Roche be appointed Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy in place of Miss Pratt. Miss Pratt's
health will not permit her to continue this work. The salary,
of course, is to be $200.
5. That George H. Curtis, A. B., be appointed Dispensing
Clerk in the Electrotherapeutical Laboratory in place of Mr.
Terry and at the same salary.
As Director of the Hygienic Laboratory I wish to request
that David J. Levy, A. B., be appointed Rockefeller scholar
in Bacteriology, without expense to the University.
All of which I have the honor to respectfully submit.
V. C. VAUGHAN,
Dean.




138


OCTOBER MEETING, 1902.


Regent Lawton submitted the following communication
from Professor S. Lawrence Bigelow, Acting Director of the
Laboratory of General Chemistry, and the recommendations
therein contained were approved by the Board:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., October 7, 1902.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN-I respectfully request that the following appointments be made for the current year, 1902-I903, to fill
vacancies:
R. L. Benson, A. B., as Assistant in General Chemistry at
a salary of $300, in place of R. T. Sanford.
A. C. Houghton as Assistant in General Chemistry at a
salary of $150, in place of N. F. Harriman.
L. H. Duschak as Assistant in General Chemistry at a
salary of $50, in place of L. E. Allen.
E. B. Scott and P. E. Demmler as Assistants in General
Chemistry, without salary, in place of W. H. Haughey and
L. H. Duschak.
I also beg to recommend that H. W. Emerson, Ph.C., B. S.,
be appointed to the Parke, Davis & Co. Fellowship for the
current year in place of G. F. Richmond.
Yours respectfully,
S. LAWRENCE BIGELOW.
On motion of Regent Butterfield it was voted that all requests for equipment in the new Medical Building be referred
to the Building Committee, with power.
The City of Ann Arbor proposed to turn over to the Board
of Regents the ground comprising Felch Park, and what is
known as the cat-hole, to be used as a botanical garden.
The matter of accepting this property was referred to Regents
Butterfield, Barbour, and Farr for consideration.
Regent Hill moved that Mr. Charles C. Adams be appointed Curator of the Museum to date from January i, 1903,
at a salary of $900, he to take the place of Mr. Pettitt, who
was appointed at the last meeting, but now desires to withdraw, and that Mr. Sargent, the present Curator, be continued
until January 1, 1903. Also that Mr. Earl H. Frothingham
be appointed Student Assistant in Museum for the academic
year at a salary of $150. This motion was carried on a call
vote.




OCTOBER MEETING, I902.


139


On motion of Regent Hill, the Department of French
was authorized to select one additional Instructor for one year
at a salary of $900, and to report the name of the person so
selected to the next meeting of the Board for confirmation.
This motion was carried on a call vote.
The Department of History stated that last year the Board
allowed them two assistants with a combined salary of $650.
They now ask that the sum be raised to $i,ooo for this year
on account of the greater amount of work to be done. If the
request is granted, they will present the names of persons
selected for the work at the next meeting of the Board for
formal appointment. Regent Hill moved that the request be
granted, which was done on a call vote of the Board.
Treasurer Soule gave notice that Mr. Fred M. Green, who
was Instructor in the Engineering Department last year, had
contributed one-tenth of his salary, $90, to the class fund of
I898. On motion of Regent Dean the gift was accepted and
the President was requested to convey to Mr. Green the thanks
of the Board for his generous gift.
The Board then adjourned to Wednesday, November I9,
at 0o o'clock a. m.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




NOVEMBER MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, November 21, 1902, 
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at Io
o'clock A. M.
Present: Regents Butterfield, Lawton, Dean, Barbour,
Fletcher, and Carey.
Absent: Regents Farr and Hill.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Lawton, approved and ordered
printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the standing committees of the Board
for consideration.
The President presented and read a resolution of thanks,
from the Kappa Kappa Gamma Fraternity, for the use of the
Barbour Gymnasium for their National Convention.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Treasurer was authorized to pay the bill of 45  francs for maps purchased in Paris,
by the department of Romance Languages.
On motion of Regent Barbour, an appropriation of $940
was made for the purchase and installation of a printing press
in the bindery of the University by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following communication from the Dean of the Engineering Department, and
on his motion, the matter was laid on the table for the present.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,       )
DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING, 
ANN ARBOR, NOV. I4TH, I902.  )
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents, University of Michigan 
GENTLEMEN.-At a.recent meeting of a standing committee of the
Faculty of the Department of Engineering, consisting of Professors Cooley,
Carhart, Davis, Denison, Campbell, and the Dean, it was decided that econ



142


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1902.


omy in planning the equipment for the laboratories in the new engineering
building would be promoted by a careful study of the facilities enjoyed and
the plants already installed in some of the leading engineering schools of
the country, and it was decided to ask the Board of Regents to authorize a
committee of three or more to visit such schools as the Magill University
in Montreal, Harvard, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Columbia,
and Pennsylvania, for the purpose of securing all information possible in
regard to laboratory equipment and for planning the best installation for our
new building, this work to be done prior to the submission of the budget
for next year. And this committee would respectfully ask that a sum which
may appear reasonable to your honorable body be appropriated for the
expenses of this committee.
Very respectfully yours,
CHAS. E. GREENE, Dean.
Regent Barbour submitted the following preamble and
agreement, which were adopted by the full Board, with the
proviso that the balance of Lot D, not described below, and
Lot   14, adjoining, be included in the proposition.
WHEREAS, The City of Ann Arbor has acquired certain lands, and has
undertaken by condemnation proceedings and purchase to acquire certain
other lands, all of which lands are hereinafter described and referred to as
' the park," and
WHEREAS, The said City has, by resolution of its Common Council,
authorized and empowered its Mayor, Royal S. Copeland, on behalf of said
City, to enter into and close a contract with the Regents of the University
of Michigan, whereby said City of Ann Arbor, upon perfecting its title to
said park, agrees to place and perpetually protect the said Board of Regents
in the full and undisturbed possession of said park, upon condition that said
Board of Regents shall undertake and agree to perpetually maintain said
lands as a "park," and beautify and care for the same and relieve the said
City from any and all costs, charges and expenses 'in connection therewith.
Now, Therefore,- this Agreement Witnesseth, That the said Board of
Regents hereby agrees with the said Royal S. Copeland, acting as the
Mayor of the said City of Ann Arbor, and under the authority vested
in him by resolution of said Common Council and the general authority
vested in him as Mayor, that upon the perfection of the title in said City of
Ann Arbor to the said park, and the transfer to the said Board of Regents
of the title, or lease for nine hundred and ninety-nine years thereof, and the
full possession thereof, to be maintained undisturbed, that the said Board
will proceed in due time to lay out, arrange and form the said park lands
into a botanical garden and arboretum, to be used for scientific purposes in
connection with the departments of instruction in said University, in such
manner and with such buildings and constructions as shall seem best to the




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1902.


143


Board of Regents to carry out the general purposes designed; except no
building shall be erected on Felch park; that the said park and grounds shall
be open to the public daily at such reasonable times and in such manner and
under such rules for the preservation of flowers, shrubbery, trees, and other.property as the Board of Regents shall prescribe; and that it will perpetually maintain and care for and beautify said lands and retain the same
under its protection and jurisdiction for all future time during the period of
said lease, and relieve the said City from all charges and expenses in connection therewith, except in so far as police protection may be at any time
necessary, which said protection upon demand of the said Board of Regents,
its President, or Secretary, the said City of Ann Arbor hereby agrees
promptly and adequately to furnish.
The said park lands with reference to which this agreement is made are
described as follows:
I. Felch Park as now platted, being bounded on the North by the South
line of Huron Street, on the East by the East line of the West one-half (2)
of the Northwest one-quarter (4), Section twenty-eight (28), Town 2, S., R
6 East; on the South by the North line of Washington Street; on the West
by the East line of Twelfth Street.
2. "Cat Hole Property," being Lots one (I), two (2), three (3), four (4),
and five (5), Block two (2), South, Range thirteen (I3) East, and the land
lying East of said Lots extending to the East line of the West one-half (2)
of the Northwest one-quarter ('4) Section twenty-eight (28), Town 2, South,
Range 6 East.
3. The West one hundred and two (0I2) feet in width extending the
entire length of Lot No. "D," in Block three (3), Range South, Smith
Third Addition to City of Ann Arbor; also commencing at the South line of
Lot " D'.until it intersects the East line of first described property: All
these lands being located in the City of Ann Arbor, County of Washtenaw,
State of Michigan.
On motion of Regent Dean, Ethel W. B. Chase and Forest
B. H. Brown were appointed assistants in Botany for one year,
without pay.
Regent Carey moved that Harley A. Haynes be appointed
House Physician in the Homceopathic Hospital for one year at
a salary of $400, and William    T. Miller, M.D., Lecturer on
Surgery, without pay.
The motion was carried on a call vote.
The President submitted the following report of the Exec



144


NOVEMBER MEETI-NG, 90o2.


utive Committee of the Board, which was adopted on a call
vote:
PRESIDENT'S OFFICE, 
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, Nov, 21, I902.
To the Board of Regents.
Your Executive Committee beg leave to make the following report of
appointments which they have authorized since your last meeting in accordance with provisions which you made at that meeting and at previous meetings:
Instructor in Mathematics at the rate of $900, Mr. F. A. LaMotte, M. S.
Mr. Roy R. Peck, Instructor in French, at the same rato.
Miss Bertha S. Stuart, $400, assistant in the Gymnasium.
Miss L. R. Albright, at $350; Miss Florence M. Hall, $200; Miss Caroline E. Pattengill, at $225; Mr. Carl C. Eckhardt, at $225, assistants in
History.
On the Homceopathic Hospital staff: Miss Myrta Woodson, principal
of the Nurses' Training School, at $45 a month; Mrs. M. O. Ronaldson,
matron at $35; Miss Elsie Morrison, head nurse, at $30.
Mr. Ernest S. Bates, A.B., at $300; Mr. Harold P. Breitenbach, A.B.,
at $300, assistants in English.
Mr. J. E. Wallace Wallin, Ph.D., assistant in Philosophy, at the rate of
$450 a year.
Andre Beziat de Bordes, instructor in French, in place of V. E. FranSois, resigned. Salary $900.
JAMES B. ANGELL,
ROGER W. BUTTERFIELD,
HENRY S. DEAN.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist was conferred upon Percy Seaman Peck, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the School
of Pharmacy.
The Secretary   of the    Homoeopathic    Medical College
reported through Regent Carey, that the persons named below
had completed the course in the Training School for Nurses and
were recommended for Certificates of Graduation. On motion
of Regent Carey, the President and Secretary were authorized
to issue Certificates of Graduation in the name of the Board,
to the persons named in the communication, and to attach the
seal of the University thereto.    Katherine A. Case, Carrie
Dafener, Katheryn Fiske, Eva Lawson, Anna L. Nellis, Myrtle
Showerman, Inez B. Wilson, and Blanche Wood.




NTOVEMBER MlEETING, I902.


145


On motion of Regent Barbour, Mr. S. W. Smith was
authorized to use the title of " Editor of the News Letter."
On motion of Regent Hill, Mr. Carl C. Tarbox was
appointed Assistant in English for the remainder of the college
year. Salary at the rate of $300.
On motion of Regent Lawton, Mr. Edward Lucas was
reappointed Dispensing Accountant in the Chemical Laboratory, and his salary was fixed at the rate of $i,ooo from January ist, 1903, by a full vote of the Board.
The Board then took a recess until 2 o'clock p. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock P. M.
On motion of Regent Dean, the Department of Mechanical Engineering was allowed a shop credit of $300, by the full
vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the degree of Bachelor
of Laws was conferred upon Eugene H. Winkworth, in accordance with the recommendation of the Law Faculty.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Treasurer was authorized to pay Mason and Kahn, architects, $820, on account of
professional services on Psychopathic ward, by the full vote of
the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Treasurer was authorized to pay the Woodward Lumber Company $Io,ooo, on
account of furniture for the new Medical Building, by the
unanimous vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Treasurer was authorized to pay the Kroeschell Bros. Ice Machine Company $2Io0,
for Refrigerating plant placed in the new Medical Building,
as per contract. This action was taken on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Dean, Mr. A. L. Colton and Mr. H. L.
Curtis were appointed assistants in the Department of Physics, for the remainder of the college year, at a salary of $15
per month each, by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Fletcher moved that the Detroit Marble Works be
paid $164 for additional work done in the Barbour Gymna



146


NOVEMBER MEETING, I902.


sium in excess of their contract. It was so ordered on a call
vote.
The Gardner Elevator Company of Detroit having submitted a proposal to put three hand power elevators in the new
Medical Building, one to run to the first floor, and the other
two to run to the third floor, for the total sum of $700; on
motion of Regent Dean, the Secretary was directed to
accept the proposition, provided the company would agree to
wainscoat the three platforms four and one-half feet high. This
action was taken on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Superintendent Reeve
was directed to move the dirt on the north side of the new
Boiler House at University Hospital.
Regent Fletcher moved, that a sum, not exceeding $1,300,
be appropriated for pipe covering in the tunnel, the new Medical Building, the Boiler House, and the fan system, and that
Professor Cooley and Mr. Hopwood be requested to take
charge of the work. The motion was carried on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Superintendent Reeve was
requested to put in one new closet in West Hall, and connect
the same with the sewer.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted.that the salaries of Milton H. Rix, Assistant Engineer, and G. Sodt, engineer helper, be made $850 and $700, respectively, and that the
fireman and helpers at University Hospital be placed on
three shifts per day, with a salary of $1.50 per day each.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the question of increasing
the salaries of the plumbers on the campus was placed in the
hands of Regent Fletcher, with power.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the purchase of a crematory for use in the new Medical Building, was referred to the
Building Committee and the President and Secretary with
power, the cost not to exceed $500, exclusive of installation.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted that the
Finance Committee sign the printed financial report.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was directed
to cancel the bond of Koch Brothers, contractors of the new
Medical Building, and to pay the said contractors all moneys.




NOVEMBER MEETING, I902.


147


that may be due them under their contract, excepting $500,
which is held to cover some unfinished work which cannot be
completed until after the furniture for said building is in place.
On motion of Regent Barbour, it was voted to request the
contractor of the new Engineering Building, to continue the
cut stone around the first story of North wing of said building
at an additional cost of $I25, in order that the exterior of the
building may be uniform in appearance.
Regent Lawton moved that the income from the Davis and
Treadwell bequests, be placed in the hands of the President to
be expended for needy patients in the Hospital, upon the recommendation     of the Hospital Committee.       Also that the
Board permit the transfer of portraits of past members of the
Medical Faculty to the faculty room in the new Medical
Building on completion of the same. The motion was carried
by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Lawton, it was voted that a sum, not
exceeding $ioo, be appropriated for the purpose of placing in
University Hospital, memorial tablets in honor of those who
have made substantial bequests to the Hospital.
Regent Barbour submitted the following resolutions, which
were adopted by the Board:
Resolved. That when a Professor, Instructor, or Assistant, has accepted
an appointment from this Board, the interests of the University require, and
this Board will insist, that he shall not accept an appointment or duty inconsistent with the continuance of the performance of the duties of such
appointment to the end of the college year, without the consent of this
Board, or, in case of the necessity of prompt action, the consent of the Executive Committee of the Board.
Resolvedfurther, That the officers of the University be, and they are
hereby, instructed not to employ any Professor or Instructor who is in the
employment of any other institution of learning, including High Schools, in
this or any other State-such employment to commence before the succeeding college or high school year-without the assent of the authorities of such
institution of learning.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Friday, December g9th,
1902, at Io o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE, Secretary.




DECEMBER MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
Friday, December 19, I902.
The Board assembled in the Regents' Room at Io
o'clock A. M.
Present: Regents Hill, Lawton, Dean, Barbour, Fletcher,
and Carey:
Absent: Regents Butterfield and Farr.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Dean, approved and ordered
printed,
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the standing committees of the Board
for consideration.
Professors Payne and Whitney appeared before the Board
and urged the establishment in the near future of a Model
School of Practice, where our students could have access to
the classes, and see the best methods of teaching in the class
room.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Professor Payne was
requested to consult with the State Board of Education, and
all others who should be consulted, and submit to the Board a
plan for inaugurating the work.
The President read the following report of the Chairman
of the Executive Committee of the Summer School, which
was ordered printed in the minutes.
December 8, I902.
To the President and Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and
the Arts.
GENTLEMEN.-As Chairman of the Executive Committee I have the
honor to present my report upon the Ninth Annual Summer Session of
the University of Michigan.
The session opened June 25th and closed August 8th, I902. The
enrollment numbered, in the




150


DECEMBER MEETING, 1902.


Men.
214


Women.
I35


Literary     Department............................           349
Law    Department.................................             44
Medical Department.............................                70
Engineering Department.......................                 33
Total number in residence... 496


In the Literary Department the enrollment by States was as follows

Michigan.................. 201
O hio.......................   42
Pennsylvania................   8
Illinois.............     17
Indiana....................
New York..................    I 
Missouri....................   7
Iowa......................    5
K ansas.....................   4
Massachusetts..............    4
Colorado...................   3
Ontario...................     2
Minnesota..................    2
New Jersey................      2
Utah....................       2


Japan.....................
Manila, P. I.................
Alabama..................
Arkansas.................
Idaho......................
Jamaica....................
M aine.....................
Montana.....
Tennessee..................
Texas.....................
Vermont.................
Wyoming..................
Washington.............
Sandwich Islands............


2
2
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I


(f the 349 students enrolled in the Literary Department, 182 were
teachers, 131 were students enrolled in some department of the University,
and 46 either preparatory students or unclassified. Of the 131 students in
the University doing work in the Summer Session, IOI were from the Literary Department; 12 from the Department of Engineering; 8 from the
Department of Law; 8 from the Department of Medicine and Surgery;
and 2 from the School of Pharmacy.
Of those in attendance, 123 were graduates of normal schools, colleges,
or universities; of this number, 37 came from the University of Michigan,
31 from the Michigan State Normal, 6 from Olivet, 5 from Albion College,
6 from Ohio Wesleyan, 2 each from Alma College, Buchtel College, Michigan Agricultural College, Kansas State Normal, Tri-State Normal, and
Ohio State University; and one each from Baldwin, Wooster, Denison,
Johns Hopkins, Notre Dame. and Northwestern Universities, from the state
Universities-of Kentucky, Indiana, Missouri and Washington; also one each
from Adrian, Carthage, Dartmouth, Gale College, Hope College, Illinois
Women's College, Kalamazoo, Luther College, Marietta College, Mount
Holyoke, Wellesley, Oberlin, Penn College, Wittenberg College, and one
person who had graduated from Emory College, from the University of
Georgia, and from the University of Nashville.
There were offered in the various subjects I07 courses, conducted by
40 instructors, namely: 8 full Professors, 6 Junior Professors, 8 Assistant
Professors, and 18 Instructors, not counting the two Professors giving regular
work in the Department of Engineering.
A study of the election blanks of the students of the Summer Session
shows the following distribution of work elected among the different




DECEMBER MEETING, 1902.                           151
branches. In each case an election is counted as five recitation periods for


the week; double courses are counted
elections were as follows:
Greek...................  I5 Courses.
Latin.....................  52    "
French................    33     "
Italian-..................  4 
Spanish.................   6     "
German.................   46      "
English.................
Eng. and Rhet. 48
Eng. Lit......... 62-I I       "1
Elocution...............  41 
History................   51 "
Philosophy,
Philosophy...... 29
Psychology...... 25- 54        "
During the    Session   a series of


as two courses; upon this basis the


Pedagogy.................
Political Economy......
Mathematics............
Physics.............
Chemistry...............
Geology................
Zoology..................
Botany....................
Drawing..................
Shop Practice...........
Mechanical Engineering........................
Electrical Engineer'ng


Ioo Courses.
48    "
87    "
85    "
80 
33 "
I I
44 
3I
12    "
I0
4    6


instructive and entertaining evening


lectures were given by members of the University Fteulty. These lectures
were open alike to the students of the Summer Session and to the citizens
of Ann Arbor. The attendance was excellent and much interest was manifested. For this feature of the work especial thanks are due to the lecturers, Professor Russell, Professor Payne, Professor Kelsey, Professor McLaughlin, and Professor D'Ooge.
FINANCIAL REPORT.
For several years the Regents have appropriated at the beginning of
each year $2,500.00, or such part thereof as shall be necessary, to conduct the
Summer Session in accordance with the recommendations of the President
and Faculty. This fund being regarded as a part of the income of the
Summer Session, the account for the year I902 is as follows:
Receipts.
Tuition, 349 students at $I5.oo00................         $5,235 oo
Appropriation......................................        2,500  00


Total Receipts...............................
Expenditures.
Pay     Roll.............................................
Administration..................................
Advertising........................................
Printing...........................................
Library.........................................
Postage, mailing,           blanks, etc.................
Janitor...........................................
Total expenditures..........................
Balance.................................


$7,735 oo


$6,930 oo
200 00
238 i8
94 63
25 00
21 86
3 00
$7,512 67   $7,512 67
222 33
$7,735 00
J. 0. REED,


Respectfully submitted,




152


DECE.MBER MEETING. 1902.


On motion of Regent Barbour, the President and Secretary were requested to consider and report upon the desirability of the University issuing a handbook of information
for general distribution.
Dr. Wm. H. Jackson presented to the University, through
Regent Dean, A Manuscript Copy of the Early History of the
Dental Department, which was accepted and placed in the
Library, and the President was requested to convey to Dr.
Jackson the thanks of the Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour, $500.00 was appropriated
for the purchase of a sterilizer for use in the University Hospital.
Regent Lawton presented and read the following communication from  Professor Novy, and the recommendations
therein contained were approved by the Board.
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN, December I6, 1902.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents of the University.
GENTLEMEN.-Inasmuch as Mr. W. G. Carhart, Assistant in Bacteriology, desires to be relieved of his work because of pressure of other duties,
I beg to request that his wish be granted, to take effect January I, I903. I
also would ask that J. Walter Vaughan, A. B., '02, be appointed to the
vacant position to serve from January I to October I, I903, at the same
salary which would have been paid to Mr. Carhart.
Respectfully yours,
F. G. NovY.
On motion of Regent Dean the following degrees were
conferred upon the persons named in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
Bachelor of Arts.-Jean Dawson and Flora L. White.
Master of Arts.-Victor E. Frangois and Helen M. St.
John.
Doctor of Philosophy.-George Depue Hadzsits.
Mr. Kenyon L. Butterfield, Instructor in Rural Sociology
desired to be relieved from duty on and after April ist next.
On motion of Regent Dean the request was granted. His
salary stops when resignation takes effect.
Regent Dean presented and read the following communication from Professor F. N. Scott.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1902.


153


ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN, DEcember 17, 1902.
To the fHonorable, the Board of Regents.
Mr. A. C. Wihner, of Battle Creek, who last year gave a sum of money
for the Fellowship in English Composition known as the Pilgrim Fellowship, has sent $1oo to the Treasurer and desires that the fellowship be continued. It is possible that the sum may be increased before the end of the
year. I would recommend the appointment to this fellowship of Miss Mary
Lowell, of Union City, a graduate of the Class of I901, and would also
suggest that she be appointed Assistant in Rhetoric without pay.
Respectfully,
F. N. SCOTT.
Regent Dean moved that the gift of Mr. A. C. Wisner be
accepted, with the thanks of the Board, and that the recommendations contained in the communication of Professor
Scott be approved. The motion was carried by the full vote
of the Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Treasurer was authorized to make a loan to James Hoban, of Detroit, of $7,ooo
for three years at 5 per cent, from the Gift Funds of the
University.
On motion of Regent Barbour, it was voted that at the
time of giving the Annual Junior Hop in the Gymnasium,
the music be required to stop at 2:30 o'clock A. M., and that
the lights be turiTed off the building at 3 o'clock A. M.
Ayes-Regents Hill, Dean, Barbour, and Carey.
Nays-None.
Regents Lawton and Fletcher not voting.
On motion of Regent Barbour, it was voted to request
Regent Fletcher to execute to the Board a quit claim deed of
waste lands in Michigan under his control, the same to be
used by the University for Forestry purposes.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Superintendent Reeve was
directed to install the new printing press, and furnish all necessary lights; and that the Auditing Board furnish printers'
supplies to the extent of $200.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Chairman of the Building Committee was authorized to take such action as he shall
deem best to prevent the waste of light and power on the
Campus.
The Board then took a recess until 2 o'clock P. M.




154


DECEMBERl MEE EATING, I902.


AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. M.
Mr. D. W. Springer and Mr. J. P. Clegg appeared before the
Board and stated, that the State Association of Accountants
desired the incoming Legislature to pass a law requiring accountants to pass an examination, and to work under a license to
be issued by the Board of Regents of the University.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Committee on Buildings and Grounds were requested to consider the matter of
placing fire escapes on University Hospital and adjacent
buildings and report to the Board.
On motion of Regent Dean, the Engineering Committee
were authorized to procure plans for the enlargement of the
Physical Laboratory.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Secretary was directed
to send copies of the resolution of the Board relating to the
employment of Professors, to such Universities and Colleges
as may be thought best.
On motion of Regent Lawton, Dr. W. H. Morley was appointed first assistant in Gynaecology and Obstetrics in place
of Dr. Pray, resigned. The appointment to date from December ist, 1902. Salary at the rate of $200.
Regent Fletcher presented and read the following communication from the City Ice Company in relation to the
University ice supply.
ANN ARBOR, November 20, 1902.
To the Board of Regents, University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEN.- We will sell you one acre of land located on the Hurpn
River with the privilege of cutting all the ice needed by the University for
its own use for one thousand dollars, including right of way out to the road.
THE CITY ICE COMPANY,
JAS. R. BACH, Sec'y.
Regent Lawton moved that the following apparatus be
purchased for the new Medical Building: One air compressor,
one air receiver, and one motor at a total cost of $100; waste
crocks, $50; 4 pair trucks, $54; one hundred feed boxes, $25;
and a furnace for disposing of small infected animals, $25.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1902,


155


A call vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Hill, Lawton, Barbour, and Carey.
Nays-Regents Fletcher and Dean.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Treasurer was directed
to pay the Stirling Boiler Co. $2,000 on their contract, by the
full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher it was voted to put steel
beams, ten feet apart, over ship tank in new Engineering
Building to carry the cement floors.
On motion of Regent Hill, the degree of Bachelor of Arts
was conferred on George Wendell Maxey.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Finance Committee
and the Building Committee jointly, were requested to consider the investment of our trust funds in real estate in the
city of Detroit, and report their conclusions to the Board.
Regent Fletcher submitted the following resolution which
was adopted by the full vote of the Board.
Resolved, That the Board appropriate the additional sum of 25,00ooo
for finishing and equipping the new Medical Building, and that the Secretary cause a copy of this resolution to be filed with the Auditor General
On motion of Regent Barbour, Mr. Burton K. Wheeler
was appointed clerk in Administrative Offices of the Department of Law, in place of Mr. Munter, resigned. No change
in salary.
On motion of Regent Dean, Regents Hill, Fletcher, and
Carey were made a special committee to consider the best
means of consuming the smoke from the furnaces on the Campus, and to report their conclusions to the Board.
On motion the Board adjourned to Friday, January 23,
1903, at 10 o'clock, A. M,
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




JANUARY MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, January 9, 1903.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at Io o'clock
A. M.
Present-Regents Hill, Lawton, Dean, Barbour, and
Carey.
Absent-Regents Butterfield, Farr, and Fletcher.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Dean, approved and ordered
printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the Board
for consideration.
Regent Hill presented and read the following list of
appointments for the Faculty of the Summer School, which
were, on his motion, approved by the full Board.
PAY ROLL FOR SUMMER SESSION OF 1903.
Professor I. N. Demmon, English Literature.....$250 oo
Professor W\. W. Beman, Mathematics........... 250 oo
Professor Robert M. WVenley, Philosophy........ 250 oo
Professor W. H. Payne, Pedagogy.............. 250 oo
Professor A. S. Whitney, Pedagogy............. 250 oo
Professor J. A. Woodburn, (Indiana University),
H istory................................  250  oo
Professor A. Ziwet, Mathematics................ 00 oo
Professor F. M. Taylor, Political Economy....... 200 oo
Professor John 0. Reed, Physics............... 200 oo
Professor Joseph H. Drake, Latin................ 200 oo
Professor Moritz Levi, Spanish and Italian....... 200 oo
Professor Moses Gomberg, Chemistry............ 200 oo




158


JJANUARY MEETING, I903.


Professor Mark S. W. Jefferson (Michigan State
Normal College), Geology................ 200 oo
Assistant Professor K. E. Guthe, Physics....... 240 oo
Assistant Professor W. B. Pillsbury, Psychology.. I60 oo
Assistant Professor John R. Effinger, French..... 240 oo
Assistant Professor Tobias Diekhoff, German.... I60 oo
Assistant Professor Henry A. Sanders, Greek.... 80 oo
Assistant Professor H. S. Jennings, Zoology..... 80 oo
Instructor Geo. 0. Higley, Chemistry.........  I80 oo
Instructor D. M\. Lichty, Chemistry.........   8  oo
Instructor C. L. Meader, Latin................. 800 oo
Instructor Arthur G. Hall, Mathematics.......... I80 oo
Instructor James W. Glover, Mathematics and
Insurance..............................    oo
Instructor F. C. Wilson, Drawing............... I50 oo
Instructor W. W. Florer, German...............120 oo
Instructor J. B. Pollock, Botany................ I80 oo
Instructor J. A. C. Hildner, German...........  20 oo
Instructor E. C. Sullivan, Chemistry............ I80 oo
Instructor H1. nM. Randall, Physics............. I50 oo
Instructor F. L. Dunlap, Chemistry............ 50 oo
Instructor Duane R. Stuart, Greek.............. I50 oo
Instructor J. M. Thomas, English................  00 oo
Instructor Geo. P. Burns, Botany.............. I50 oo
Instructor W.' G. Smeaton, Physical Chemistry... 50 oo
Instructor William  Marshall, Mathematics...... I00 oo
Instructor C. C. Adams, Zology............... 50 oo
Instructor C. T. Teetzel (Michigan State Normal
College), Physical Training................50 oo
Francis X. Carmody (Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute), Elocution.......................... 200 oo
The following persons were provisionally appointed to
give instruction in the University during the Summer Session, on condition that any course which is not elected by at
least six students shall be withdrawn:
Assistant Professor H. A. Sanders, Latin (two
courses)...........................     $160 oo
Instructor W. G. Smeaton, Physical Chemistry (two
courses)..............................  00  00




JANUARY MEETING, I903.


159


Instructor J. C. Thorpe, Mechanical Engineering.. o00 oo
Assistant Professor H. S. Jennings, Zo6logy (two
courses).................................  6 0 oo
On motion of Regent Hill, Charles Baird was reappointed Graduate Director of Outdoor Athletics for the
term of three years with a salary of $1,200 from the University funds and $8oo from the gate receipts of the Athletic
Association.
The request for cases in the museum of the new Medical
Building was referred to the Medical Committee, to report at
the next meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Carey, Architect Kahn was requested to get bids on the plumbing, heating and ventilation
of the new Engineering Building and submit the same to the
Board at their next meeting.
On motion of Regent Barbour, it was voted that at the
time of the Junior Hop in the Gymnasium, dancing shall
cease at 2 o'clock A. M. and the lights in the building shall
be turned off at 2:30 o'clock standard time.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the    Secretary was
requested to have a schedule of the professors' rooms and
hours prepared.
The following resolution was submitted by Regent Hill
and adopted by the full Board: Resolved, That as to all
proposed legislation originating in the University and affecting its interests, that it shall be submitted to this Board for
its consideration and approved before such legislation is
requested of the legislative body.
On motion of Regent Carey, the Secretary was requested
to ascertain, and report to the Board, the total amount that
has been appropriated for the new Medical Building, and the
amount that has been paid, including all outstanding bills, and
to request the Dean of the Department to make an estimate
of any and all material still needed to complete the building
ready for use.
On motion of Regent Dean, Professor M. E. Cooley was
requested to procure bids on pipes, radiators and iron tanks
for the new Engineering Building and submit them at the




160          JANUARY MEETING, 1903.
next meeting of the Board; but if it becomes necessary to
have these goods before the Board meeting, the chairman of
the Building Committee shall have full power to make the
purchase.
On motion the Board adjourned to Thursday, March 5th,
at io o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




MARCH MEETING.
TNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, March 5th, 1903.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at Io o'clock
A. M.
Present-Regents Farr, Lawton, Dean, Barbour, Fletcher, and Carey.
Ab:;cnt-R:.ieg;ents Butterfield and Hill.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting,
which were, on motion of Regent Dean, approved and
ordered printed.
Conmunications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the standing committees of the Board
for consideration.
The Board then went into executive session and listened
to Mr. Filibert Roth, who addressed them on the subject of
Forestry.
Regent Fletcher moved that Mr. Filibert Roth be
appointed Professor of Forestry at a salary of $2,500,
services to begin with the next college year.
The motion was carried by the unanimous vote of the
Board.
The President presented and read the following communication from Professor Thomas C. Trueblood:
ANN ARBOR, March 2, 1903.
Xlo the Honorable Board of Regents:
Gentlemen: I have the honor to report to you that
Senator Russell A. Alger has offered to contribute $75.00 a
year (until such time as he shall notify us to the contrary.)
for the purpose of providing suitable medals for the University Honor Debaters.
Very truly yours,
THOS. C. TRUEBLOOD.




162


MtARCH MEETING, 1903.


On motion the President was requested to convey to
Senator Alger the thanks of the Board for his gift to this
University.
On motion of Regent Lawton, Professor A. C. McLaughlin was granted leave of absence for one year without
salary to accept the directorship of Historical Research in the
Carnegie Institution at Washington, D. C. He was
requested to report to the next meeting of the Board what
arrangements can be made to carry his work during his
absence.
Regent Lawton submitted the following   resolution,
which was adopted by the Board: Resolved, That the
Medical Faculty of the University Hospital are hereby
instructed to arrange in the new Palmer Ward for the
present accommodation of the work of Diseases of Women
under Doctor Peterson.
Regent Lawton moved that the Secretary be authorized
to contract with the Library Bureau of Chicago for the
following museum cases for the Medical Museum, according
to the specifications on file in the Secretary's office:
One wall case, 27 feet long........................$ 500
One double case, 6 feet long...................... 200
One double case, 12 feet long...................... 400
Two low cases with drawers, each Io feet long...... 300
$1400
On motion of Regent Barbour, Regent Farr was authorized to make a loan of $15,000 to W. W. Hannan of Detroit
from the gift funds of the University, and also $Io,oo0 to
I. P. B. Sands of Detroit, if in his judgment the security is
ample.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the degree of Doctor of
Dental Surgery was conferred upon John Boggs Felker,
Louis Frederick Theurer, and Harry Seymour White, in
accordance with recommendation of the Dental Faculty.
Regent Dean presented and read a communication from
the Engineering Faculty, asking that the required number of
hours for graduation be raised to 136. The communication
carried with it the disapproval of the Dean of the Department, and was on motion laid on the table.




M.ARCH MEETING, I903.


168


Regent Dean presented the following communication
from the Dean of the Engineering Department and the recommendations therein contained were approved by the
Board:
ANN ARBOR, February 28, 1903.
I'RESIDENT JAMES B. ANGELL,
University of Michigan:
Dear Sir:-An appropriation of $900.00 for an additional
instructor in the Department of Engineering was allowed in
the last budget, if the necessity for his employment should
arise.
During the first semester Mr. Chas. B. Davis was employed as instructor in surveying. At the request of Prof.
MI. E. Cooley I now ask that Mr. Markham Cheever and
Mr. Albert J. Becker, two students in mechanical engineering, may be appointed as student assistants in mechanical
engineering for the second semester, for work in the Mechanical Laboratory, where there is a great increase in the number of students; and that the compensation for each be
$225.00, making, together, the $450.00 allotted for the second
semester. Prof. Cooley has asked in next year's budget
for two student assistants, theneed of which he already feels.
Respectfully submitted,
CHAS. E. GREENE,
Dean.
On motion of Regent Dean, Professor Patterson was
authorized to use $50 of the budget of the Electric Engineering Department'to defray his expenses while visiting
important electrical engineering centers with his class.
On motion of Regent Dean, Professor V. M. Spalding
was granted leave of absence, with salary, for the academic
year of 1903-04 for the purpose of study abroad, he to make
satisfactory provisions for his work, and the direction of the
Botanical Department during his absence.
On motion of Regent Dean, Mr. Walter D. Hadzsits was
appointed Instructor in Latin for the second semester without compensation.
On motion of Regent Dean, Professor Reighard was
granted leave of absence from the spring vacation until the
end of the college year, for the purpose of taking up research




164


4MARCH MEETING, 1903.


work with the United States Fish Commission. He to provide a substitute to do his college work.
On motion of Regent Dean, is was voted that the salaries
of H. L. Curtis and A. L. Colton, assistants in the Physical
Laboratory, be made $30 per month each for the second
semester.
Regent Dean presented and read a communication from
Professor P. C. Freer, now on leave of absence in the Philippine Islands, stating that the Government had offered him
$6,ooo per year to remain in charge of the Bureau of Government Laboratories, and stating the conditions on which
he would return to the University and take up his work
again.  The Board did not accede to Professor Freer's
request. The communication was referred to the President
for reply.
The following preamble and resolution, submitted by
Regent Lawton, were adopted by the Board:
In view of the importance of instruction in Chemistry
in the courses of study in the University, and of the fact that
the science in its various phases has outgrown the facilities
provided for the work in the present Laboratory, so that
to meet the demands of this Department the old Laboratory
needs to be greatly enlarged and improved, or that the
building be discarded for the purpose for which it is now
used, and a new Laboratory be erected that shall be adequate
to the modern requirements of the Department of Chemistry
and Pharmacy in the University; therefore be it
Resolved, That it is the purpose of the Board of Regents
to construct a new Chemical Building as soon as the funds
at the disposal of the Board shall permit.
Regent Barbour presented the following resolution,
which was adopted on a call vote:
Resolvzed, That when the Ann Arbor Railway Company
shall have delivered upon Ferry Field, under the direction
of the Board in Control of Athletics, so much gravel and
soil as said Board shall direct, not exceeding ten thousand
cubic yards, a conveyance of a strip of land off the westerly
side of what was formerly known as Regents' Field, ten
feet in width and extending the whole length of said field,




MARCH MEETING, I903.


165


be executed and delivered to the said railway company. And
that said railway company shall remove the present fence
to its new position ten feet east and shall continuously and
forever protect and preserve the embankment between the
proposed ditch and fence from undermining and degradation.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the salary of Keene Fitzpatrick, director of the Waterman Gymnasium, was made
$3,000 from October next by the unanimous vote of the
Board.
Regent Fletcher presented the request of certain parties
in the State, that the Board should establish a chair of Architecture in the University. The request was referred to the
Engineering Committee for consideration.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Laboratory of
Hygiene was directed to analyse the city water every two
weeks and furnish the Board of Health with a copy of their
report.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Auditing Board were
authorized to purchase the necessary electric cable for transmitting light to the new medical building and to the Hospitals.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Architect Kahn was
directed to fireproof the third story and roof of the Psychopathic Ward.
On motion the Board then took a recess until 2 o'clock
P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. M.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the sum of $80 was appropriated for the purchase of the Gibbs collection of Skins
of Michigan Birds and Mammals, by the full vote of the
Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Director of the
Museum was authorized to exchange duplicates of American or foreign specimens, and also single specimens of foreign species not required for purposes of instruction or
exhibition.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Secretary was re



166. MARCH MEETIVNG, 903.


quested to notify the Librarian that the Board declines to
appropriate $500 to cover an overdraft in the book budget
of the Medical Department as requested by him, and to
request him to say why this budget was allowed to be overdrawn.
On motion of Regent Barbour, an appropriation of
$167.75 was made for the purchase of two typewriters for
use in the General Library by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Lawton presented the request of Dr. Taft for
an assistant for the remainder of the college year at a salary
of $25 per month, and moved that the request be granted.
The motion was lost on a call vote as follows:
Ayes-Regents Lawton and Barbour.
Nays-Regent Carey.
Regents Farr and Dean not voting.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the degree of Bachelor
of Laws was conferred upon Frank Robley Fisher, Frank
Austin Boyer and Claud Burton, in accordance with the
recommendation of the Law Faculty.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Mr. Hopwood was
directed to connect certain pipes on third floor of the
Museum.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Dean of the Law
Department was authorized to extend an invitation to Sir
Frederick Pollock of England to deliver a course of lectures
before the Law classes, cost not to exceed $250.
On motion of Regent Carey, the degree of Doctor of
Medicine was conferred upon Ernest Dean Reed, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Homceopathic Medical College.
On motion of Regent Carey, Professor Dean T. Smith
was granted leave of absence from May until October, for
the purpose of going abroad for study.
Regent Farr moved that the Board establish a Pasteur
Institute in the University, and that Thomas M. Cooley,
A. B., M. D.*, be appointed Assistant Professor of Hygiene
in charge of such Institute at a salary of $T,600, and that
$900 be appropriated for its maintenance.
The motion was carried by the unanimous vote of the
Board.




MARCH MEETING, 1903.               167
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the contract to furnish
one pressure tank for the new Engineering Building according to blue prints submitted, was awarded to Wickes
Brothers of Saginaw for the sum of $385, f. o. b. Ann Arbor,
by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Hutzel & Co. were
allowed $119.44 for extra plumbing in the new Medical
Building by the full vote of the Board.
The Board requested Regent Carey to investigate as to
the best method of supplying our Library chairs with rubber
tips.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Pond & Pond, Architects
of Chicago, were authorized to complete their plans for an
addition to the Physical Laboratory.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the bids for heating and
plumbing the new Engineering Building were referred to
the Building Committee with power.
The Board then adjourned to April 22, at 10 o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




APRIL MEETING.
UJNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, April 22, I903.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at IO o'clock
A. M.
Present-Regents Farr, Lawton, Dean, Barbour, Fletcher, and Carey.
Absent-Regents Butterfield and Hill.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Barbour, approved and ordered
printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
referred to the standing committees of the Board for consideration.
Regent Dean presented and read the following communication from Professor Scott, and on motion the President was requested to return to the Macmillan Company of
New York the thanks of the Board for their gift to the
Library of this University.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
I have pleasure in announcing that I have just received
from the Macmillian Company, publishers, of New York
City, a collection of 330 volumes intended as the nucleus
of a department library of Rhetoric. The books are given
without condition, but with the understanding that they will
be placed in the Rhetorical Seminary Room in West Hall
(Room 6). The collection consists of standard works in
rhetoric, literature and psychology, and is valued at $260o
I respectfully suggest that your honorable body make a
suitable acknowledgement of the gift.
Respectfully,
F. N. SCOTT.




170


APRIL MEETING, 1903.


Professor Demmon appeared before the Board and presented and read the following communication:
ANN ARBOR, April 22, I903.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-Having examined the proposition of the
Herndon Company, of Boston, for the sale of the stereotyped plates (i68 pages) and other material, including manuscripts, cuts, subscriptions, etc., for the History of the University of Michigan, and having also examined the terms of
the University Press, of Cambridge, Mass., where the work
has thus far been done, for completing the manufacture of
the volume, we estimate the total cost to the University for
an edition of two thousand (2,000) copies, bound in cloth,
all material and work to be of the highest grade, to be not
more than five thousand ($5,000) dollars. This estimate
includes all expenses for the preparation of additional material, for seeing through the press, and for advertising and
selling.                 Respectfully submitted,
ISAAC N. DEMMON.
WM. H. PETTEE.
Regent Barbour submitted the following resolution:
Resolved -That the University purchase the plates and
material of the Hinsdale History of the University of Michigan at a cost not to exceed $1,500, and that Professors
Demmon and Pettee be authorized to proceed with the publication and sale of an edition of two thousand volumes of
said history, the total cost not to exceed $5,000, including
the purchase of plates and material.
A call vote taken on this resolution resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Lawton, Dean, Barbour, Fletcher, and
Carey.
Regent Farr not voting.
Regent Dean submitted a communication from the Engineering Faculty asking the Board to establish courses in
Electrochemical and Electrometallurgical Engineering. The
Board declined to establish'such courses.
Regent Dean presented the request of Mr. Ralph H.
Miller, instrument maker, endorsed by fifteen others, asking
that the salary of Mr. Miller be increased from $3 to. $4 per
day. The request was laid on the table.




APRIL MEETING, I903.


171


On motion of Regent Barbour, Regents Fletcher and
Carey were asked to look after the coal supply for the University and provide storage for the same.
The following resolution, introduced by Regent Farr,
was adopted by the Board:
Resolved: That a committee of three be appointed by the
President to examine and report upon the question of erecting an apartment building in city of Detroit, said building,
if erected, to be upon the so-called Barbour property on
Woodward Avenue, and to be an investment of special
bequests to the University.
The President appointed Regents Farr, Lawton and
Fletcher as such committee.
Regent Farr submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted by the full Board:
Resolved: That the President and Secretary are hereby
authorized to sign and deliver in and for the Board of
Regents of the University of Michigan a petition for repaving Leavenworth street, between Twenty-ninth Avenue and
Thirty-seventh Street in the City of Omaha and State of
Nebraska, the property of the Board of Regents affected
by said repaving being the west 64~/2 feet of the east 585'2
feet of Block I6 of Bartlett's addition to said City of Omaha.
On motion of Regent Dean, Regent Farr and Barbour
were requested to go to Omaha, Nebraska, and look after
the property of the University in that city.
The following resolution, introduced by Regent Farr,
was adopted by the full Board:
Resolved: That the President and Secretary be and they
are hereby authorized to execute and deliver a conveyance
of the N. E. /4, Section 35, T. 31, R. 22, Brown Co., State of
Nebraska, for a consideration of $800, one-half in cash and
the balance to be secured by mortgage upon the property at
six per cent. interest.
Regent Farr submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted by the Board:
Resolved: That the Finance Committee be authorized
to take steps as it may deem proper for the collection of such
debts and securities in the Bates Fund as may due and
unpaid.




172


APRIL MEETING, 1903.


On motion of Regent Dean, the title of Professor I. N1
Demmon was changed to Professor of English, and the
title of Professor Fred N. Scott was made Professor of
Rhetoric by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Dean presented and read the following communication from Professor Greene, Dean of the Engineering
Department, and the recommendations therein contained
were approved by the full Board.
ANN ARBOR, MICH., April 15, 1903.
PRESIDENT JAMES B. ANGELL,
Ann Arbor, Mich.:
Dear Sir:-As all engineering students are required to
stay to one Summer term, the present class of chemical engineers will have to remain this coming summer. As some of
the class are irregular in their course, there will probably
not be over six or eight of these who will have to be here;
these will all take three hours work in dynamo-electric machinery. This is the only prescribed work they must take.
Under the present rules if they take elective work to fill up
their time to the six hours which is expected of Summer
School students they will have to pay the Summer School
fee of twenty dollars. As they 'are required to stay it does
not seem exactly just that they should have to pay this fee or
else take only half work. I would like, therefore, to have
you request the Regents to allow. the chemical engineering
students, who are required to remain to the Summer School
to take dynamo-electric machinery, to elect such other work
as may best suit their needs up to three hours without payment of the Summer School fee.
Very truly yours,
CHAS. E. GREENE.
Professor M. L. D'Ooge, executor of the estate of Love
M. Palmer, tendered securities amounting to $10,907.04,
together with his check for $4,092.96, in full payment of the
Palmer bequest for free beds in University Hospital.
On motion of Regent Farr, the obligations were accepted
in full payment of said bequest, and the same were turned
over to the Treasurer with instructions to issue his receipt
to the executor.
On motion the Board took a recess until 2 o'clock P. M.




APRIL MEETING, rQo3.


173


AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. M.
On motion of Regent Farr, the consideration of the Blair
coal contract with the University was deferred until the next
meeting of the Board.
Regent Dean presented and read a communication from
Professors Kelsey and D'Ooge asking the Board to print six
thousand copies of the Graduate Announcement for the year
1903-04. On motion the communication was placed on file
and the Auditing Board were directed to print the usual
number only.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the salaries of James Galbraith, steamfitter, and T. Backus, plumber, were made $3
per day by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Fletcher moved that the Treasurer be authorized
to pay the following accounts:
The H. W. Johns Manville Company, for covering
the steam pipes in new Medical Building (contract)................................... $1,251 97
And bill of extras on same work...............  93 82
$1,345 79
The Sturtevant Company, for heating and ventilating new Medical Building (on account).....$5,0oo  oo
The Gardner Elevator Company (on account).... 500 oo
Hoertz & Company, for extra work done on new
Engineering Building (in full).............. 1,398 25
Spier & Rohns, architects, for services on new
Medical Building (in full).........1.........  I,182 20
The Morse-Boulger Destructor Company, for material furnished for crematory (in full).......  500 oo
The motion was carried by the unanimous vote of the
Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted that metal
treads be placed on the outside and first story stairs of the
new Medical Building at a cost of $275.




174


APRIL MEETING, I903.


On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Athletic Association
was allowed the use of the small brick building near West
Hall at a rental of $Io per month.
On motion of Regent Carey, $6,ooo was added to the
budget of the Homceopathic Hospital for current expenses
by the unanimous vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted to put a new
hood and balance case in the Laboratory of Materia Medica
at a cost of $75.
Regent Fletcher moved that the architect be authorized
to contract with Charles A. Sauer, contractor of the Psychopathic Ward, for fire-proofing the second story and the roof
of said building at a cost of $4,545.21. The motion was
carried by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the bill of Albert Kahn,
architect, for services rendered in connection with the
Psychopathic Ward building, $300, and the new Engineering building, $700, was referred to the Secretary with power.
Assistant Professor H. S. Jennings was granted a leave
of absence for one year for the purpose of going abroad for
study, his salary to lapse during his absence.
On motion of Regent Carey, the salary of Miss Carrie
Daferner, head nurse in the Homncopathic Hospital, was
made $300 per year from January Ist, I903, by the full
vote of the Board.
Regent Fletcher presented and read the following communication from Professor E. D. Campbell, and the recommendations therein contained were approved by the full
Board:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., April 21, 1903.
To the Board of Regents, University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN: About a year ago Mr. Alfred C. Lane,
State Geologist, wrote to both Dr. Prescott and myself,
inquiring as to whether we could make arrangements
whereby analyses could be made in this Chemical Laboratory
for the Geological Survey. We, Dr. Prescott and myself,
considered the matter. and wrote that if there was quite, an
amount of work to be done, enough to pay the salary of an
assistant, we would request the Board of Regents to appoint
an assistant to do the work and the Survey would pay for




APRIL MEETING, 1903.


175


the analyses, Mr. Lane could not at that time promise any
definite amount of work and no further action was taken.
He now has about two hundred determinations which he
would iike to have done as soon as possible and says that
there will probably be three hundred or so next year. I
think it only right for this laboratory to co-operate as far
as practicable with the State Geological Survey. Our present force cannot attend to this work but I would make the
following proposition: That I be empowered to appoint
an assistant to make such analyses as are called for by the
State Geologist. That this assistant receive no compensation from the University. That the State Geologist pay one
dollar for each determination made and that of this amount
the assistant receive three-fourths and one-fourth go to the
University, to the credit of the chemical laboratory, to pay
for the chemicals and apparatus used in the work. Dr.
Prescott has requested me to attend to this matter and I will
take charge of the work if the Board wishes, without compensation for myself. The University can in this way
materially assist the work of the Geological Survey and more
than reimburse itself for the materials used in the work. I
would request that I be authorized to select such an assistant and to begin thrc wTrk at once.
Respectfully submitted,
E. D. CAMPBELL.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted that a contract be made with the Johnson Service Company of Milwaukee for the regulation of heat in the new Engineering
Building according to the plans and specifications, for the
sum of $7,500.
On motion the following appointments and reappointments were made:
ASSISTANT PROFESSORS REAPPOINTED FOR THREE YEARS.
John R. Allen, M. E., Mechanical Engineering..... $i,6oo
Karl E.Guthe, Ph. D., Physics................... I,6oo
George Rebec, Ph. D., Philosophy............... 1,6oo
Walter B. Pillsbury, Ph. D., Philosophy, and Director
of the Psychological Laboratory............... I,600




176           APRIL MEETING, 1903.
INSTRUCTORS REAPPOINTED FOR TIREE YEARS.
George 0. Higley, M. S., General Chemistry....... 1,200
David M. Lichty, M. S., General Chemistry....... 1,200
William H. Butts, A. M., Mathematics............. 1,200
ASSISTANTS REAPPOINTED FOR THREE YEARS.
Fred P. Jordan, A. B., Assistant in Library....... 1,200
Byron A. Finney, A. B., Assistant in Library...... 1,200
INSTRUCTORS REAPPOINTED FOR ONE YEAR.
John Dieterle, A. M., German..............   go900
Alice L. Hunt, Drawing................   900
Frederick L. Dunlap, Sc.D., Analytical Chemistry...  900
Edward B. Escott, M. S., Mathematics...........  900
William  Marshall, M. S., Mathematics...........  900
Herbert D. Carrington, Ph. D., German..........  900
Carl F. A. Lange, A. M., German (half time)......  450
Colman D. Frank, A. M., French and Spanish.....  900
Harrison M. Randall, Ph. D., Physics...........  900
Joseph M. Thomas, Ph. D., Rhetoric...........    90oo
William E. Bohn, A. M., Rhetoric...............  900
Royal A. Abbott, A. M., Rhetoric............... 900
Winthrop H. Chenery, A. M., French..............  900
Clarence B. Morrill, B. L., Rhetoric................  900
Carl E. Eggert, Ph. D., German.................  900
John W. Scholl, A. M\., German (partial time)......  600
George A. May, M. D., Physical Examiner in Gymnasium (rank of Instructor)................... 1,200
John C. Thorpe, B. S., Mechanical Engineering......  900
Alphonso M. Clover, B. S., General Chemistry......  900
Duane R. Stuart, Ph. D., Greek and Latin........ 1,200
Lyman F. Morehouse, B. S., Physics.............  900
Frederick C. Wilson, B. S., Descriptive Geometry and
Drawing..............................  900
William G. Smeaton, A. B., Chemical Engineering..  900
Fred G. Frink, M. S., Civil Engineering.........  900
Charles C. Adams, M. S., Curator of Museum (rank
of  Instructor)...............................  900
Roy  R. Peck, A. B., French.....................  900
Andre Beziat de Bordes, Ph. D., French...........  900




APRIL MEETING, I903.


177


OTHER APPOINTMENTS FOR ONE YEAR.
Myra B. Jordan, Women's Dean.................. I,200
William L. Miggett, B. S., Superintendent of Engineering Shops.............................,600
Claude H. Van Tyne, Ph. D., Assistant Professor of
H istory.....................I................,600
Edward S. Corwin, Ph. B., Assistant in History.....  650
Professor A. B. Hart (Harv. Univ.), Special Lecturer in History.............................  250
Professor F. J. Turner (Univ. of Wis.), Special Lecturer in History.......................250
Professor J. F. Jameson (Univ. of Chicago), Special
Lecturer in History.                             150
Professor A. C. McLaughlin, Special Lecturer in
History                                         300
H istory. *........................................  300
On motion the Board adjourned to Thursday, May 14,
I903, at Io o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




MAY MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 1
ANN ARBOR, May 14, 1903. S
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at 10 o'clock
A. M.
Present: Regents   Farr, Lawton, Dean, Barbour,
Fletcher, and Carey.
Absent: Regents Butterfield and Hill.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting,
which were, on motion of Regent Lawton, approved and
ordered printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
referred to the standing committees of the Board for consideration.
Some time was spent on the budget, and then the Board
took a recess until 2 oclock p. ir.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock P. M.
On motion of Regent Fletcher a contract was entered into
with the Sunday Creek Coal Company to furnish 1o,ooo tons
slack coal at $2.10 and 3,000 tons run of mines at $2.55,
F. O. B., Ann Arbor.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was instructed to notify the Fidelity and Deposit Company of
Baltimore, Md., that the Blair Coal Company had failed
to carry out their contract with this Board, and that the
Board would look to the bond for damages.
The Superintendent of University  Hospital reported
that the following persons had completed the course in the




180


illMAY MEETING, 1903.


Training School for Nurses and were recommended for
graduation:
Martha Culver Hollister,     Kate Louise Yourex,
llnez Alma Bryant,           Charlotte Dell Easton,
lEdith Mildred Harker,       Bessie Caroline Brown,
Florence Mabel Lee,          Grace Emily Jones.
Bertha Lucretia Knapp,       Edith lone Dickson,
Grace Elizabeth Eisele,      Katherine Clyde Johnston,
Aldina Elfrida West,         Lelia Emily Jackson,
Mabel Margaret Boyer,        Loise Maud Marsden.
On motion of Regent Lawton the President and Secretary were authorized to issue the proper certificates of graduation and affix the seal of the University thereto.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the degree of Bachelor of
Laws was conferred upon Stephen Arthur McGlynn in
accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the
Department of Law.
Regent Barbour submitted the following resolution which
was adopted by the full Board:
Resolved, That the thanks of this Board be tendered to Mr.
James B. Dill for his generous gift to the Law Library of the following artist's proofs of Imperial Japan Vellum etchings: One of
Justice Joseph Story, one of Chief Justice Fuller, one of Justice
Peckham, one of Hon. Elihu Root, one of Hon. William M. Evarts.
The following resolution, introduced by Regent Barbour,
was adopted by the full vote of the Board:
Resolved, That a library fee of Two Dollars be hereafter added
to the yearly dues of students in the Department of Law, the money
so collected to be credited to the Department as a separate fund for
use in replacing books that have been worn out and in making
permanent additions to the Law Library.
A communication was received from     Dr. W. B. Hinsdale, Health Officer of the City of Ann Arbor, stating that
the City Council was desirous of acting jointly with the
University in the erection of a detention hopsital.    On
motion of Regent Barbour, the Council was requested to
submit a proposition at the next meeting of the Board.




MAY MIEETING, 1903.


181


Regent Farr submitted the following resolution, which
was, on motion of Regent Barbour, adopted:
Resolved, That the President and Secretary are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver to Ellen D. Scott a conveyance of the east half of lot (14), in block (3), in Summit Place
addition to the City of Omaha, Neb., for the sum of $3,250.00.
Regent Dean presented a communication from Dr.
Vaughan and fifty others asking the Board to establish in
the University a graduate school, and on his motion the
matter was laid on the table.
On motion of Regent Lawton, G. Carl Huber was made
Professor of Histology and Embryology, with salary of
$2,500, by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Dean presented and read the following communication from the Director of the Chemical Laboratory:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., May 6, 1903.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Gentlemen-I am asked by Assistant Professor Alviso
B. Stevens to present his request for a leave of absence for
the next two college years without salary for the purpose
of study in Europe. The Faculty of the School of Pharmacy recommend that this request of Professor Stevens be
granted, looking forward to his return to his post with
added strength. He has served as assistant professor since
1892, his last reappointment being two years ago (Minutes,
1901, June, page 672). His subject, the Technique of Pharmacy, is important to the school. Its alumni are strongly
attached to him, and the Faculty and Dean unite with them
in desiring the long continuance of his services in the school.
In providing for the work of Professor Stevens during
his absence, it is recommended,
I. That Assistant Professor Schlotterbeck be charged
with the superintendence of the class and laboratory work in
the Technics of Pharmacy, and (by help of assistants) with
the teaching of the course in the Chemistry of Alkaloids,
also that he serve as Secretary and Registrar.
2. That Walter H. Blome, B.S., T902, for the last three
vears Assistant in Pharmacy, be appointed as Acting In



182


MAY IMEETING, 1903.


structor in Pharmacy at $900 a. year for the next two years
(not looking forward to reappointment).
3. That it be further authorized to obtain the services
of a non-resident lecturer or laboratory teacher for a part
or the whole of the second semester in Professor Stevens'
subjects at an expenditure of $3oo each year. This will
leave $400 unexpended on account of absence of Professor
Stevens.
I have recommended on personal grounds the advancement of Assistant Professor J. 0. Schlotterbeck to be
Junior Professor under the salary budget of the coming
year. I desire now to propose this promotion for the added
reason of his increased responsibility during the next two
years, and because this expenditure will be covered for the
next two years by the unexpended residue of Mr. Stevens'
salary. - (Blome, $90oo; non-resident teacher, $300; balance
to apply on salary of Dr. Schlotterbeck, $400; total, $I,600.)
Therefore, this promotion of Professor Schlotterbeck would
require in the work of Pharmacy and Pharmacognosy no
expenditure beyond that of the present year until two years
hence, and then an annual increase of $400.
Respectfully submitted,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT.
On motion of Regent Dean, leave of absence was granted
to Professor A. B. Stevens for two years without salary,
and the distribution of his work as recommended in the
foregoing communication was approved, except that the
title of Professor Schlotterbeck be not changed, and that
the $400 added to his salary for the next two years shall
cease on the return of Professor Stevens.
On motion of Regent Dean, Carl C. Tarbox, A.B., was
appointed Instructor in Rhetoric in the Engineering Department for one year at a salary of $900, by the full vote of the
Board.
Regent Dean moved that Stephen E. Slocum, Ph.D., and
Burt L. NewTkirk, Ph. D., be appointed Instructors in Mathematics for one year in place of F. A. La Motte and W. B.
Ford, resigned. It was so ordered by the full vote of the
Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher,.the Treasurer was




MfA Y MEETING, 1903.


183


directed to pay Henry Carew & Co., of Detroit, the sum
of $3,958.18 in full payment of their contract for the erection
and completion of the new boiler house at University Hospital, by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Dean moved that Professor H. S. Jennings be
granted leave of absence for one year without pay, and that
his work and salary be distributed as follows: That Dr.
Raymond Pearl and Dr. S. J. Holmes be each assigned a
part of the work and receive $300 each- for such additional
service. That Mr. George Wagner be made Instructor in
Zoology for one year, salary $9oo; and that $IoQ be used
towards paying the salary of an assistant for the same work.
This arrangement to continue for one year only.
The motion was carried on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the salary of Miss Bertha
S. Stuart, assistant in the Barbour Gymnasium, was increased
from $400 to $450 for the next college year by the full vote
of the Board.
On motion of Regent Farr, it was voted that Professor
Pettee be requested to audit the books of the Treasurer and
the Secretary for the year ending June 30th, 1903, at the
usual compensation, $I50.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Mr. Frank M. Longanecker was appointed Assistant in Latin for one year without pay.
The Finance Committee submitted the following as the
budget for the ensuing year, and the same was adopted by
the unanimous vote of the Board.
BUDGET FROM JULY I, 1903 'T JUNtE 30, 1904.
Estimated Receipts.
4  Mill Tax........................$.. 394,500  oo
Students' Fees...................  96,000 oo
Interest on Endowment Fund..............  38,500 00
Homoeopathic Act.......................  6,000 oo
Summer Hospitals........................  3,000 oo
Receipts from University Hospital.......  36,000 oo
Receipts from Homceopathic Hospital.....  I5,000 oo
Receipts from sale of Dental Supplies... 5,000 oo
Receipts from Summer School............     00
Receipts from Diplomas..................  8,ooo oo




184                  MA Y MEETING, 1903.
Interest on Deposits......................     900 oo
Earnings of Engineering Shops...........        600 oo
In Building Fund at Lansing prior to Dec.
31, 1902..............................65,000 oo
Turned over to Building Fund Jan. I, 1903.. 78,000 oo-$851,500 oo
Estimated Disbursements.
Department of Greek.....................        50 oo
Department of Latin......................      200 oo
Department of German...................        100 oo
Department of French................00 oo
Department of English and Rhetoric.......        50 oo
Department of English Philology..........       50 oo
Department of Political Economy..........    I,00 00oo
Department of Geology..................         I  00o
Department of Botany....................       600 oo
Space in Green House................       100 oo
Botanical Garden.....................      300 oo
Department of Forestry...................      315 oo
Department of Zoology...................       800 oo
Department of Philosophy................       500 oo
Department of American History..........        25 oo
Assistant Professor...................   I,600 00
Assistant.............................     650 oo
Three Special Lecturers................    950 oo
Department of Semitics...................      100 oo
Department of Music...............    200 oo
Department of General History............       50 oo
Assistants............................   1,050 00oo
Museum...............................     300 oo
Appointment Committee..................        450 oo
Observatory.............................       289 oo
General Library...........................     520 oo
General Library Attendant on Woman's Side       245 oo
Department of Law    (Current)............   1,200 00
Clerical Help........................       25 oo
Expense of Delegate..................       50 oo
Lecturer on Irrigation................     200 00
Increase of Professor Bogle's Salary...   I,000 oo
Assistant Librarian...................      50 oo
Increase of Professor Lane's Salary...    400 oo
Increase of Professor Goddard's Salary      700 oo
One Instructor.......................     900 oo




MIA Y MEETING, 1903.                        185
Whole time of Professor Sage........        800 oo
Sir Frederick Pollock's Lectures.......      250 oo
Department of Engineering, Dean's Office..       375 oo
Stenographer.........................       100 oo
Secretary's Office.....................       60 oo
Typewriter...........................      85 oo
Civil Engineering, Professor Greene........      100 oo
Geodesy and Surveying...................        730 oo
Board of Assistants in Field...........     Io5 oo
Three Wall Tents...................         10.  5 oo
Five Levels..........................       650 oo
Five Leveling Rods...................        50 oo
Drawing, Professor Denison..............         50 oo
One Instructor.......................            00oo 
Mechanical Engineering (Current)........        880 oo
Instructor with Class.................       00 00
Instructor, Summer Session..........        150 oo
Electrical Engineering (Current)..........      150 oo
Instructor, Summer Session...........       200 00
Engineering Shops.......................       1,852 oo
Waterman Gymnasium...................      300 oo
Barbour Gymnasium......................     200 oo
Mineralogy...............................        50 oo
Chemical Laboratory (Gross)..............     12,000 oo
Department of Physics....................,o68 oo
Department of Medical Physics............       I50 oo
Dental Department.......................       5,000 oo
Medical Department......................        800 oo 
Increase of Professor Huber's Salary..       500 oo
Hygienic Laboratory (Current)...........       5,00o oo
Microscopes.........................        250 oo
Balances..............................      250 oo
Anatomical Material......................     2,000 oo
Anatomical Laboratory...................        320 oo
Histology (Current)......................       700 oo
Additional Apparatus...............  600 oo
Glassware............................       200 oo
Ophthalmology...........................        60 oo
MAateria Medica...........................      600 oo
Electrotherapeutics........................     396 oo
Nervous Diseases.........................       216 oo
Theory and Practice......................       260 oo
Pathology........................     750 oo
Three Museum Cases.................         900 oo




186                  MAY MEETING, 1903.
Surgical Laboratory and Clinic............    63I oo
Dermatology..............                      50 oo
Physiology..............................      600 oo
University Hospital.......................  33,500 00
Homceopathic Hospital..................    I8,000 oo
Homceopathic College....................      500 oo
Laundry..................................    6,oo0 oo
Printing Supplies and Expenses...........   1,500 00
Printing Proceedings, School Masters' Club      70 oo
Alumnus.................................  1,400  00
Books for Libraries.......................  I5,000 00
Repairs..................................  0,000  oo
Contingent Expenses...................... Io,o0 oo
Fuel...................................... 30,000  00
Lights...................................   4,500 oo
Postage.................................    3,000 oo
Miscellaneous Printing.................... 3,500 oo
Summer Schools..........................    8,000 oo
Commencement Expenses................         850 oo
Carpenter Shop Supplies..................    1,500 00
School Inspection.........................    700 oo
Diplomas.....I...........................   1,200  00
Care of Teams...........................     1,200 00
Water Supply............................     3,500 00
Electric Supplies..........................  2,000 00
Heating Supplies..........................  2,0 000 
Salary of Professor Roth...................  2,500 00
General Pay Roll.........................401,310 00
Increase of Mr. Fitzpatrick's Salary........   500 o0
Due on Medical Building.................   31,072 00
Due on Engineering Building............. I6o,ooo 00
Due on Hospital Boiler House.............    4,000 oo
To Complete the Palmer Ward............      0,0ooo 00
To Complete the Psychopathic Ward....... I0,000 oo
Due on Heating Plant.....................   5,985 oo
Paving State Street.......................  5,000 oo
Prof. T. B. Cooley's Salary.................,600 00
Expenses of Pasteur Institute..............     oo 00
Mr. Holland's Salary to General Pay Roll..   1,200 00
Hinsdale's History of the University.....   5,000 oo
Increase of Salary of Plumber and Steam
Fitter...............................    I60  oo
Increase of Salary of Nurse in Homceopathic
Hospital, I8 months at $o.oo..........    I80 oo




MA Y MEETING, i903.


187


Addition to Homoeopathic Hospital Budget
for year ending June 30, 1903........  6,000 oo
Metal Treads on Stairs, Medical Building..  275 oo
Overdraft on Coal Supply.................  6,ooo oo-$866,464 oo
Deduct the following items which are now
covered in the General Pay Roll.
Political Economy........................ $,100o oo
American History.........................  3,200 00
General History.......................... 1,000 0oo-  $5,300 00
$861,164 oo
Regent Fletcher moved that the sum of $I,600 be appropriated for the purchase of pipe and fittings to connect the
new  boiler house with the Hospital building.     It was so
ordered on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the pay of the laundry
help (except the foreman) was increased 25 cents per day
for a ten-hour day, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Farr, Mir. R. H. Miller's salary
was made $I,ooo, for twelve months work, by the full vote
of the Board.
The Board then took a recess until the next morning at
TO o'clock.
MORNING SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 10 o'clock A. M.
On motion the following distribution was made of the
money set apart in the budget for the purchase of books:
General Library............$I,                             00
Law Library...........................              2,475 oo
Medical Library............       2,025 oo
Homeopathic Library............................      250 oo
Dental Library................250 00
$15,000 00
On motion of Regent Fletcher it was voted to pay the
Athletic Association 25 cents per cubic yard for all dirt they
may remove from the Hospital grounds to the Athletic field.




188


MAY' MEETING, 1903.


On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Treasurer was
directed to pay Koch Brothers the sum o'f $3,277.70, in full
of their contract for the erection and completion of the
Palmer Ward, which amount includes all extra work done
on said building.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted to contract
with the Gardner Elevator Company of Detroit to put six
automatic gates on the elevators in the new M/edical Building at a cost, complete, of $125.
Regent Barbour moved that the Professor of Elocution
be allowed $ioo, or so much thereof as may be necessary,
to cover his traveling expenses while conducting contests
at other Universities, and that $500 be allowed for assistants
in Elocution for the ensuing year. The motion was carried
on a call vote.
Regent Fletcher moved that the entire roof of the new
Engineering Building (except the boiler room) be fireproofed at a cost of $2,127.06. The motion was carried oin
a call vote.
A communication was received from Dr. Peterson which
was, on motion of Regent Barbour, referred to the Dean of
the Medical Faculty.
On motion of Regent Dean, Mr. Norman A. Wood was
reappointed Taxidermist for one year, salary, $700.
Regent Farr, from the committee to consider the advisability of the University using its gift funds in the erection of
an apartment house on vacant property in the city of Detroit
belonging to the University, reported as follows:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Gentlem nen-Your committee appointed to investigate
and report upon the advisability of investing a certain
amount of your trust funds in the erection of an apartment
house in the City of Detroit, upon the premises donated to
the University by the Hon. L. L. Barbour, one of the mem 
bers of your honorable body, respectfully report:
That we visited Detroit upon the i th day of May last
for the purpose of the inquiry to which we had been
appointed. We found that there are a number of apartment
houses in the city, now constructed and in full operation, and
others in course of construction. The cost of these houses




lMA Y AMEETING, 1903.


189


ranges from fifty to two hundred thousand dollars, the cost
of the land upon which they are built being from 12 to 30
per cent of the entire cost. These buildings appear to be in
great and increasing demand, and when finished are quickly
rented. Indeed, they have been rented in advance of completion in some instances, and it is claimed might have been
in all had the owners permitted. These appear to pay a fair,
in many cases a large, interest upon the investment. The
smallest per cent appears in the case of the Palms, which is
about 6.8 per cent. The highest we found to be 19 per cent.
Of the cost of maintaining these houses, nearly 2 per cent
is for taxes. The question now arises whether it is good
policy to use a large part of the trust funds in the erection
of a building upon your property on Woodward avenue.
The principal of these funds is to be kept intact, and the
interest to be used for the purposes of the respective trusts.
We have two considerations before us as to these funds:
First, safety, which is of primary and controlling importance; second, the income to be secured.
This trust property now consists of real estate, mortgages and bonds. It now yields a net income of nearly 5
per cent, and is fairly well invested. The following reasons might be urged against the use of the trust funds in
the erection of such a building:
I. It would absorb a large part of the trust funds and
be putting, to use a homely adage, too many eggs in one
basket.
2. The changing character of locations in cities, and
notably in Detroit, as for instance in the vicinity of the
Biddle House, and of Michigan avenue.
3. The danger that the business of building apartment
houses in the city of Detroit may be overdone.
4. That there will be a constant depreciation of the property by use.
The above objections are worthy of consideration.
Upon the other side there appears to your.committee
many arguments in favor of such investment. Among them
we may state the following:
T. That investing in this manner will bring the larger
part of the trust funds within easy reach, and they can thus




190


MAY MEETING, 1903.


be readily managed from Ann Arbor, and the oversight
\would be comparatively inexpensive.
2. The trust funds are not sufficiently large to warrant
the employment of a fiscal agent, and the control and employment must then necessarily devolve upon the Finance Committee of the Board, and this is a heavy burden upon men
oppressed with personal affairs and often living at a distance
from the University.
3. We now have more than ten per cent o~ the cost of
building in the site, at present wholly unproductive.
4. This site is in the best resident district of the city
and in all human probability likely to remain so.
5. In such an investment the University would have
nearly 2 per cent the advantage of private owners in the
immunity from taxation.
6. In the opinion of the committee, from the facts presented to it, an income sufficiently large could be derived
from such a building to yield an income of 5 per cent ani
to leave a balance for a sinking fund to more than provide
for any depreciation.
Your committee would therefore respectfully report in
favor of the erection of an apartment house upon the Barhour property (so called) in the city of Detroit, the details
as to cost, plans, etc., to be left to the future action of the
Board.
Also we recommend the purchase of 54 feet adjoining
said premises on the south at a cost of not more than $6,ooo.
GEO. A. FARR.
CHARLES D. LAWTON.
FRANK W. FLETCHER.
The report was accepted and laid on the table until the,
next meeting.
Mr. Rembert Jones, Assistant Electrician, who was requested to inspect the plant on the campus and ascertain if
there is unnecessary waste of light and power, and if so
what means should be taken to prevent such waste, made an
exhaustive and intelligent report covering the whole subject,
with a number of recommendations, which, if carried out,
would, in his judgment, materially reduce the waste of light.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the report was accepted and




M-A Y MIEETING, 1903.;91
placed on file, and the Building Committee were authorized
to carry out the recommendations therein contained.
Regent Dean stated that after the general budget for the
ensuing year had been adopted by the Board, the Engineering Faculty raised a committee on classification and schedule
of hours, and that said committee would require an allowance of $40 to cover postage, stationery and printing. He
moved that the secretary be requested to furnish the needed
supplies to the extent of $4o and charge the same to the
postage budget for general purposes. It was so ordered
by the full Board.
On motion the Board adjourned to Tuesday, June 16, at 
10 o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




JUNE MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, )
ANN ARBOR, June I6, I90o. )
The CBard assembled in the Regents' room at 10 o'clock
A. M.
Present: Regents Butterfield, Farr, Lawton, Dean, Barbcur, Fletcher, and Carey.
Absent: Regent Hill.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting,
which were, on motion of Regent Butterfield, approved and
ordered printed.
Communtications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the standing committees of the Board
for consideration.
Communications were received from the several Facultie-;
recom.mendling candidates for the degrees to be conferred on
commencement lay, and on motion of the chairmen of the
appropriata committees the recommendations were approved
and the degrees ordered to be conferred as indicated in tlie
lists given below, by the full vote of the Board.
CANDIDATES FOR DEGREES
DEPARTMENT      OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND         THE
ARTS
BACHELOR OF ARTS
M\ay Davidson Agnew, A.B., Al-  Edith Alice Barnard
bion College              Louis Arthur Barton
Mlaude Eliza Allen            Melvin Eugene Bassett
Tillie Vary Allen             Florence Baxter
Sarah Aimee Alloway           Cora Beardslee
Mabel Pugsley Andrews         Grace May Beebe
Robert Edmund Andrews         Charlotte Anna Belger
Ida Monson Andrus             William Annin Benscoter
Samuel Ball                   Earl Forest Benson
Katharine Forrest Ballentine  Georgiana Bilby




194


JUNE illMEETING, 1903.


Charlotte Secor Bissell
Olive Blanchard
Katherine Bogle
Bernice Bort
Albert James Bower
Warren Cushman Boyd
Eloise Sweet Bradshaw
Ernest Frank Briggs
Charles Henry Brown
Elizabeth Stryker Brown
Ida Loyola Brown
Josephine Mercy Brown
Florence Helen Brownell
Martha Errington Buckingham
Roberta Jane Bull
Mollie Drew Butts
Harold Swift Campbell
William Garretson Carhart
Edith Christene Carter
Elisha Wilbur Caster
Adeline Derrick Christopher
Carolyn McMechan Chubb
Edith Irene Clarke
Vernon Burnham   Cleverdon
Minnie Pamelia Clough
Harry M\ason Comins
Thurlow Emmett Coon
Cornelia Alice Copeland
Georgia Chesbrough Coppock
Clarence Clifford Corl
Anna Belle Corson
Nellie Evelyn Crane
Frederick Charles Crumpacker
Harry Lewis Crumpacker
Owen Lucas Crumpacker
Harriet Culver
Robert Myron Cutting
Hagopos Toros Daghistan
Henry Thomas Danforth
M:ary Jane Daniells
Grant Train Davis
Robert Hamilton Dawson
Edith Louise De Long
Mary Hannah Dewey
Robert Gardiner Dillaway
Albert Wilford Dorr, A.B.,
Hillsdale College
Robert Walter Douglas, Jr.
Estelle Downing
Anna Elizabeth Drummond
Frances Jewett Dunbar
Frank Aaron Edson
Lucy Elvira Elliott
Ruth Ellis
Lemuel William Famuelener Ph.
C.


John Alexander Ferguson
William Joseph Field
MIax Finkelstein
Lena MIabel Foote
Mark Foote
Caroline Edith Foulke
Jane Ridgway Fowler
Sabra Ann Fralick
Harry Alverson Franck
Theodore Ferdinand Freeman
Louise French, Ph.B., Univ. of
Wooster
Hugo Abraham Freund
Frank Frederick Fromyer
Thomas Urban Fuller
Jura Cadot Fullerton, Jr.
Katherine Reeves George
Fredericka Botsford Gillette
Effie Godfrey
Miriam Deborah Goldman
Francis Lee Dewey Goodrich
Ephraim George Gray
Clarence Wilson Greene
Florence Wentworth Greene
Christine Henrietta Haller
Nellie May Hamilton 
Weir Mitchell Hamilton
Clara Henriette Hasse
Mildred Clara Hathaway
Frances Newton Heath
Fannie Elizabeth Henion
Albert Ernest Herrnstein
NMax Robertson Hodgdon
Emma Mabel Holbrook
Mary Edith Holmes
Ralph Harmon Holmes
Edward Potter Hopkins
Alice Jeanne Houle
Earle Ingersoll Houston
Lillian Elise Howard
Mary Fuller Howes
Abigail Hubbard
Edward Godfrey Huber
Helen Marian Hume
Genevieve linus
Mabel Kathryn Inglesh
Albert Jacobson
Mark Jampolis
Charles Lloyd Justice
Paula Kahn
Katherine May Killeen
Thomas Hill Kingsley
Richard Ray Kirk
James Ross MIcAfee Kirker
Milton Sylvester Koblitz
Jacob Sylvester Kohn




JUNE MEETING, 1903.


1 95,


Anna MIargaret Kremer
Samuel Bovyer Laird, A.B., McKendree College, A.M., ibid.
Dean Lawrence
Helen Lee
Charles Albert Lehman
Julia M\aude Liskow
M/ay Elizabeth Loose
William Robinson Lyman
Lily Virginia Lyon
Schuyler Colfax, McAlpine
Douglas Macduff
Lila McGaughan
Clyde McGee
Margaret Annie McGregory
Donald Ross Maclntyre
Earl James MlcLaughlin
Marie Lotuise McLean
Mary Josephine McNerney
Walter Carson McNiel
Fred Maichele
Georgia Manning
Anna Elizabeth lMa.,;hall
Berthena Matilda M\arshall
Edward Ross Marshall
Carl Morton Marston
Gertrude Belle Matautner
Royal Loren Melendy
Frank John Mellencamp
Gertrude Agnes Miller
taul Scott Miller
Lucy Evelyn Monroe
Margaret Montgomery
Winifred Lillian Mlorse
Jennie 'Mullenbach
Helen Elizabeth Munger, A.B.,
Earlham College
Duray F. Munger
Agnes Murdock
Eva Marie Myers
Lena Frances Mlyers
Sidney Cleveland Niles
Arthur Holmes Norton
Charles Hardy Norton
Julius Jerry Nufer
Lloyd Lynn Osborn
Roy Melbourne Overpack
Claude Irwin Palmer
Una Palmier
Harriet Louise Peckham
Olive May Pepper
Zora Mack Perkey
Ida Pierce
James Austin Poole
Helen Post


Florence Bculah Schuyler Pratt
Harriet Pearl Putnamn, B.S., Albion College
-Harris Phelps Ralston
Howard Sprague Reed
James Ross Reed
John Byron Reed
Grace Adeline Reynolds
Emanuel Ernest Rimbach
Eleanor Anne Rinn
John Clifford Roberts, A.B.,
Penn College
John Fletcher Robinson
John Sherman Robinson
Mabel Eugenia Ross
George Peters Rowell
Elizabeth Morrison Rowland
Abbie E. Roys
Fred McKemy Ruby
James Herbert Russell
Edward Hildreth Ryder
Lillian Keal Sabine
Martha Sargent
Elsie Louise Sawyer
Samuel Schaefer
Ruben Stephen Schmidt
Louise Schweitzer
Roy Wood Sellars
Rufus Clark Shellenbarger, A.
B.. Wittenberg College
Vera Gertrude Skiles
Nathaniel Ellmaker Slaymaker,
Jr.
Esther Anna Smith
Grace Smith
Laurence Worthington Smith
Stephen Herbert Smith
Charles Frederick Smurthwaite
Grace Anna Snitseler
Alza Starret
Paul Frederick Steketee
Mary Elizabeth Stellwagen
Don Search Stevens
Jessie Louise Strong
Bertha Sabin Stuart
Donald Clive Stuart
Helen Amelia Sullivan
Margaret Mary Sullivan
Florence Sunderland
Carolina Auguste Supe
Carrie Louise Taylor
Hletty Mary Taylor
Pearl Blanche Taylor
Grace McDonald Thompson
Eleanor Worthiigton Toowar




196


JUNE MEETING, 1903.


Katherine Mary Tower
Marguerite Griffith Tyler
Jessie Naomi Vail
Clarice Lowry Van Eman
Edith Charlotte Van Slyke
Ray Van Winkle
Herbert Hunter Vaughan
Jessie Millicent Vivian
Frank Allison Waite
May Frances Walsh
Carlton Wood Washburn
Harry Booth Washburn
Agnes Ermina Wells
Cora Edna Wells
Mary Alice Whitney


Rose May Whitney
John Walter Whitson
Austin Elgin Wilber
Hobart Hurd Willard
Thomas Victor Williams
John Carter Williamson
Angeline Wilson
Mary Margaret Wood
Mildred Layton Woodruff
Fred Leroy Woods
Guilford Worth Woodworth
Orpha Evelyn Worden
William Hoyt Worrell
William Robins Wright
Karl Wilhelmj Zimmerschied
262


MASTER OF SCIENCE


Forest Buffen Harkness Brown,
A.B.
Leonard Dixon Haigh, B.S.
Frank Sylvester Honberger, A.
B.


Mortimer Bailey Kennedy, A.B.
Hanji Shimotome, Tokyo Polytechnic Institute


MASTER OF ARTS


Ellen Botsford Bach, A.B.
Ella May Baldwin, A.B.
Ernest Sutherland Bates, A.B.
Harold Prell Breitenbach, A.B.
Charles Sumner Bush, A.B.
Lotta Elizabeth Clark, A.B., Ripon College
Seymour Beach Conger; A.B.
Harvey Lincoln Curtis, Ph.B.
Jean Dawson, A.B.
Caroline Elizabeth DeGreene,
Ph.B., Earlham College
Clifford LeRoy Hare, M.S., Alabama Polytechnic Institute
Richard Dennis Teall Hollister,
A.B.
Dora lone Keller, A.B.
Blanche Louise King, A.B., Olivet College
Louise [Mueller Lenhart, A.B.


Mary Lowell, A.B.
Clarence Burton Morrill, B.L.
Joseph Raleigh Nelson, A.B.
Flora Prowdley, Ph.B.
Luella Jane Read, B.L., Tabor
College
William Rinck, A.B., Hlope College, A.B.
Annie Laurie Rooney, Ph.B.
Warren Hadley Smith, Ph.B.
Joseph Morris Thomas, Ph.B.
Harry Conrad Thurnau, A.B.
Alonzo Hubert Tuttle, A.B.
Ada Maude Vickers, A.B.
Sylvia Sanders Videtto, Ph.B.
George Wagner, Ph.C., A.B.,
University of Kansas
Robert Isaac White, A.B., Albion College
30


DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY


Kakujiro Akamatsu, A.B.
Louis Merwin Gelston, A.B.
Charles Willis Johnson, B.S.
(Phar.)
Carl Frederick Augustus Lange,


A.B., A.M., Harvard Univ.
M ary Frances Leach, A.B.
Harrison Standish Smalley, A.B.
Frederick Tyndall Swan, A.M.
M-ay Wheeler, A.B.
8-305




JUNE MEETING, 1903.
DEPARTIMENT OF ENGINEERING
BACHELOR OF SCIINCE (IN MARINE ENGINIERING)
William Liddell Wills
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN CHEMICAL ENGINEERING)


197


Henry Maurice Mi'lburn
Hovhannes Ekazar Russian
Francis Duncan Shenk


Leslie Joseph Tefft, A.B.
Harry Probasco Wherry


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING)


Willis Frederick Bickel
Harry Lansing Clute
James Vernon Davidson
Albert Chamberlain Fitch


John Wilhelm Kiehle
Ralph Hayward Morton
Merritt Leigh Runner
Ernst Antcn Schaeberle


8


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING)


John Ghio Barada
Albert John Becker
Homer Webb Benton
Austin Perry Biggs
Markham Cheever
Willard John Dolpli
John Orne Emerson
Edward Anton Epple
Fay Leone Faurote
Neal Charles Fenkell
Harold Richards Finney.
Walter Hugh Himes
Stephen Asa Hoag
Charles Willard Howard
Harry Crocker Hutchins
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE
Harry Hurd Atwell
Max Hayden Barber
Charles Porter Chester
Arthur Pierson Clark
Richard DeYoung
Sidney Morris Fechheimer
Donald MAcHardy Ferguson
Milton Harvey Freeman
William John Fyan
Ralph Dickinson Goodrich
Jay Butler Harris
Earle Kelly Knight
Stuart Kelsey Knox
William Arthur Lafler
Frank Irwin Louckes


Howard B. Keeney
Arthur George Lodewyck, A.B.,
Detroit College
Robert Burns -Otis
Fred Styles Parmenter
M'oraldus Pierce
Dene Ernest Polglase
Earle Francis Potter
Firederick Clarence Purcell
ilenry Alexander Rademacher
William Henry Radford
Edward Prickett Rich
James Moses Taggart
W7illiam Franklin Temple
Jerome Adams Utley          29
(IN CIVIL ENGINEERING)
Don Egbert Marsh
William Raymond Morley
Verner Lee Page 
Karl Holbrook Pratt
Frederick MIoritz Rademacher
John Ross
William Robertson Ryan
Herbert Lincoln St. John
Albert Henry Schuett
Roie Claire Seery
Stuart Henry Sims
Frederic Cushing Stevens
I)aniel W;arren Webster
Arthur Chambers Wheeler
Fred Alonzo Wyckoff         30


MECHANICAL ENGINEER
Walter MacGregor, B.S.          John Charles Thorpe, B.S.,
University of Illinois


2




198


JUNE MEETING, 1903.


CIVIL ENGINEER
Murray Blanchard, B.S.
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY
DOCTOR OF MEDICINE


1-76


Duncan Lorne Alexander
Alfred Eugene Allder
Abel Wilson Atwood
George Lewis Bond
Blanche Christine Boyle, A.B.
Frances Nichols Boynton
John Charles Bradfield
Carl Augustus Oscar Breitenbach
James Herbert Briley, B.S.,
Mich Agr. Coll.
Irene Ballou Bullard
George Henry Bunch, A.B.,
South Carolina College
Marjorie Bonthrone Burnham
Ulysses Schuyler Colfax Busch,
B.S., N. Ind. Normal School
George H. Caldwell
Simeon Lewis Carson
Charles Lewis Chambers
Ernest Cleverdon, B.S.
James Monroe Cooper
Leslie Benton Dickinson
Sumner Egbert Douglas
Lucy Nash Eames, B.S.
Warren Philo Elmer
George Wesley Evarts
Wilfrid Stedman Fisher
Meldrum Burley Floyd
Ralph Deems Fox, A.B., Illinois
Wesleyan University
John Elwin Gleason, A.B., Yale
University
Henry Burton Grimes
Andros Gulde
Arthur Field Harrington
Herbert Harrison Hills
Maude Goodale Hinman
Arthur James Hood, B.S., Adrian College
Andrew Jackson Hosmer
Franklin Arthur Jones
Roderick Duncan Kennedy
Arthur Stevens Kimball, A.B.,
Dartmouth College
Edward Dunster Kremers
Arthur Ivan Laughlin


Louis A. Levison
George Hubert Lynch
Bertha May Louise Lypps
Elba Denton McCarty
Cesar Peele McClendon, A.B.,
Lincoln University
Francis Joseph McCue, A.B.
Norman Percy McGay
Charles Summers Marsden
Curtis Campbell Mechling, A.B.,
Grove City College
Charles Bowman Morden
Edgar Leon Morrison
Samuel Osborn, B.S.
Walter May Peck
Francis Clark Penoyar
Roy Carleton Perkins
Adoniram Judson Pettis, A.B.
Eugene Bennett Pierce, A.B.,
Williams College
Edward Andrew Pillsbury, A.B.,
University of Nebraska
Arthur Patterson Reed, A.B.
Gordon Warren Rice, B.S., Fremont College
Frank Thomas Roach
Melvin D. Roberts
Andrew C. Roche
Henry Michael Rooney, A.B.,
Boston College
Melvin John Rowe
James Arthur Rowley
John Gustavus Rulison
Charles Lewis Rumph
William Holmwood Sellars
Frank Albert Shaver
William Samuel Shipp
Benjamin Arnauld Smillie
DeVerne Churton Smith
David Ellicott Squiers
William Henry Stackable
William Henry Steele
John Scott Sterling
Carl Clifton Stevens
Edward Osband Sutton
William Ellwood Tew
Edwin Leeson. Thirlby




JUNE MEETING, 1903.


199


Pius Lee Thompson
Edwin Rank VanderSlice, B.S.,
University of Nebraska
William Henry Veenboer, A.B.
Harry Samuel Wagner, Ph.B.,
Denison University
Charles Andrew Warmer
Homer M/elvin Wellnan


Herbert Tock White
Guy Holland Williams
John Ralston Williams
John Roy Williams
Charles Hodge Williamson, B.S.,
Lenox College
William John Zalesky
92


DEPARTMENT OF LAW
BACHELOR OF LAWS


Clinton James Ahern
Frank Merrill Ayer
John Henry Bailey, Jr.
Thomas Gilbert Baillie
Burt Etheridge Barlow
George Murphy Barnard
Guy Bartlett
Theodore Russell Bartlett
Jessie Belle Bassett
Norman Peter Beebe
William Cameron Beer
Charles Eugene Berry
Willard Earl Bishop
Clarence Hovey Bissell
Donald Leroy Blackstone
Harry Vernon Blakley
Hugh Armstrong Boale
Norman Henry Boardman
Francis Borrelli
Elba Harvey Boyd
Edward Harold Boylan
Emerson Richard Boyles
Amasa Kellogg Brown
Arthur Henry Brown
George Chester Bryce
James Edgar Burdett
John F. Burket, Ph.B., Oberlin
College
Roger Champlin Butterfield, A.B.
Harry William Byrne
Allen Hersy Calley
Henley Anderson Calvert
John Basso Calvi
Frank Sylvester Campbell
Richard Andrew Caswell,ouis Wreford Chapple
George Maitland Clark
James Gerald Conlan, LL.B.,
Southwestern Baptist Univ.
George Percy Cook
Earl Cooley, Ph.B., Colorado
College


John Delbert Copley
George Wilbanks Crawford
Mark A. Crawford
George Edward Cryer
Harvey Jackson Curtis
George Mark Davison
DeStelle DeLappe
James Joseph Divine
Harry Augustus Dow, A.B., Yale
University
Elbridge  Hudson   Duff, A.B.,
Monmouth College
Percy Joseph Edwards
Frank Lewis Egger
Gilbert Alfred Elliott
Allen Merton Elsworth
Walter Anthony Eversman, A.B.
James Hepburn Eymon
Ambrose Augustus Featherston,
Jr.
Albert Lorrimer Felt, B.S., Knox
College
John Alwin Fesenbeck, Ph.B.,
State University of Iowa
William Edwin Fisher
Hereford G. Fitch
Frank Morrill Fogg
Orville Stanton Franklin, B.S.,
Iowa State College
Clifton Whitfield Frazier
Roy Clinton Freeman
Lloyd Edward Gandy, A.B.
George T. Geran
George Bruckner Goodspeed
Herschell Levant Goodspeed
Herman Julius Guckenberger
Charles Arthur Haggart
Frank Rollin Hahn
David Miles Haigh
Pearl Marshal Haller
Merton Warner Hanford
Neil Cameron Hardin, Jr.




200


JUNE MEETING, 1903.


Jesse Lee Harnage, A.B., University of the State of Mo.
Don Elkin Harris
Aubrey George Harrison
Wallace Benton Harrison
Henry Bates Harts
Don Valentine Harwood
John Arthur Haver, A.B., College of Emporia
William Christel Helmers, A.B.
Raymond Bernard Hendricks
Alfred Henry
John Robert Herren, A.B., Northern Ind. Normal School
John Lawrence Hibbard, A.B.
Arthur Pomeroy Hicks,'A.B.
Anderson Bonapart Hildebrand
Harry Henry Hilgemann
Edward George Hoffman, A.B.,
Nor. Indiana Normal School
Robert Arthur Howard
Charles Herman Hummrich
Ralph Harry Husson
Ralph James Hyde
Charles Warren Hymer
i)avid Jacobson
John Wenceslaus Jedlan, LL.B.,
Illinois College of Law
Francis Arthur Jeffs
Ethel Jenney
Clare Peter Johnson
David Ira Johnston
John Jones
Michael Alfred Jordan
Leon Price Kelley
John Duncan Kerr
Arthur E. Kidder
Cochrane LeRoy Kilgore
George Washington Killelea
John Hallard King
Morton M. Kingsley, B.S., Knox
College
Thomas AMiner Kirby
Albert H-erman Klasen
Herman Charles Kleene
Frank Frederick Kleinfeld
Herman Frederick Kohl
George Washington Kratsch
John' Franklin Kumler, Jr.
David H enry Lawrence
Mason Benedict Lawton
Emert Hugh Leaton
Peter Bernard Lennon
Elisha Linder
Emil Frank Link


Charles Russell Loomis
James McCarren, Ph.B., Iowa
State University
Clinton McGee
Francis Arthur McGraw
Francis James McGreevy
Robert Webster McKenzie
William  Nissley McNair, A.B.,
Pennsylvania College
Eugene Alexander McNally
Eugene Joseph Marshall
Ralph DeLeon Matteso1n
John Benniah Means
Harold Christy Meek
Charles McClellan Meng
Harry Frederick Mercer
Hugh Dickson Merrifield
Frederick Baldwin Mertsheimer
Edgar Willis Mettler, B.S., Valparaiso College
Lorenz Paul Michaelis
Alfred Samuel AMiller
Almond Des Moines Miller
Rufus Rhines Morse
Benjamin Alexander Morton
Philip Wilder Mothersill, A.B.
Ralph Henry Munro
Max Edward Neal
Daniel Nicolas Nies
John McKean Niven, A.B., University of Wisconsin
Bert Verne Nunneley
Joseph James O'Connor
James Arthur O'Neill
James Robert Patterson
George Wesley Pennington
Eugene Dickey Perry, B.S., Iowa
State College
Sylvester Pheney
Arthur Garfield Poorman, A.B.,
Union Christian College
Cheston Adam Price
Perry Riley Price
Hermann Adolph Priebe
LaVere Ward Prince
William Sargent Putnam
Robert James Quail
Rolleigh Burton Ranes
Robert Percival Reade, A.B.,
Trinity College
James Mlonroe Reasoner, A.B.
Curtis Gerald Redden
Jesse Meharry Richards
Howard Richardson, A.B.
Jesse Jay Ricks, A.B.




JUNE MIEETING, 1903.


201


William Edward Robb
John Lester Rockwell
Thomas Jackson Royal
-lermann Frederick Ruoff
Harry Lawton Ryan
Samuel Jefferson Sackett
Charles Clarence Sackmann
James Penfield St. Cerny
Alfred Henry Sauer
Philip John Schlagenhauf
Daniel McGregor Scotten
Orville Roc Seiter
Benjamin Severance
Charles Vance Smith
Harry Dwight Smith, Ph.B., Antioch College
Ralph Archibald Smith
Ray William Smith
Jesse Louis Snapp
Hershel Robert Snavely
Gobin Stair
Joseph Gardner Standart
Norman Sedgwick Sterry
Walter Russell Stevens
James Franklin Strenick
Joseph Eugene Sweeney
Cecil Edmund Sydner
Albert Joel Taft, Ph.B., Iowa
College
John Taper


Fred Frank Thill
Edward Avery Thompson, B.L.
Delbert Marcus Tibbetts
Fred Trumbull
Sol Drullard Tucker
Edward William Tuttle
Arthur Grant Urquhart
Cornelius Vander Meulen, A. B.,
Hope College
Aldrich Collins Van Patten
Alfred Anson Vibber
Frank Evan Vickery
Ernest William Wagner
Robert Eugene Walker
Edward Gay Wasey
Leon Philetus Welch
Emil Eugene Werk
Daniel Johannes Wessels
Clarence Madison White
Edwin Prilay Whiting
Harry Hoit Whittemore
William Edmund Wider
George Russell Wilbur
James Cammack Wilhoit
Fitch Robert Williams
Leroy James Williams
Frederick August Wolf
John Morledge Woy
Homer   Niland  Young, A.B.,
Pennsylvania College   228


MASTER OF LAWS


Clarence Wesley Barber, LL.B.
Charles Fred Bliss, LL.B.
Roy Frank Britton, LL.B.


James Edward Forrest, LL.B.
Lewis Cass Lawson, B.L., West
Virginia University, LL.B.
5-233


SCHOOL OF PHARMACY
PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST


Anthony Edgar Block
Mary Louise Boynton
Alfred Napoleon Carpenter
Lester Hyatt Carragan
Robert Joseph Colgrove, Ph.G.,
Detroit College of Medicine
Thomas Harold Dexter
Elgar Otis Eaton
Fred John Frueh
Kent Kane Gimmy
Sidney Hauenstein


Benjamin Homer Haug
John Helfman
Perley Willis Hickman
James Richard Huber
Frederick Jacob Carl Klocke
Earl Williams Salsbury
Charles Antoine Schurrer
Louis Theodore Schurrer, M.D.,
Western Reserve University
Harry Max Vandeburg
Lewis Eugene Warren         20


BACHELOR OF. SCIENCE (IN PHARMACY)
Robert Josepli Colgrove, Ph.G.,  John Helfman
Detroit College of Medicine


2-22




202


JUNEL MEETING, 1903.
HOM(EOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE
DOCTOR OF ME DICI NE


Oliver R. Austin
Edwin George Henry Beck
Lucy Hazlett Black
Edwin Scott Blair
Obed Cooley
May   Hannah    Cravath,  AB.,
University of North Dakota
James Lawrence Huffman, M.B.,


University of Toronto
Adolph Ernest Ibershoff
Cornelius D. Mulder, A.B., Hope
College
Arthur Justus Reynolds
Gustave Wilson
Erastus R. Zimmerman       12


COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY
DOCTOR OF DENTAL SURGERY


Richard Allan
Francis Gordon Anspach
Ernest Ellsworth Argetsinger
Charles Henry Baker
Robert Clifton Baker
Thomas. Adelbert Bamborough
George Watson Baylis
Sigurd Becker
Mabelle Marie Bennett
Carl Henry Borgmeier
Joseph Michael Brown
Charles Joseph Burke
Nelson Amos Burr, M.D., Columbus Medical College
Clarence Walker Clarke
Rush Poore Crawford
Herbert Raymond Davis
William Robert Davis, A.B., Hiram College
William Durand
Charles Sumner Eberly
Frederick Taylor Evans
Charles T. Ferries
Gaylord Nelson Finch
Percy O'Connell Finigan
Boyd S. Gardner
Robert Bruce Gatiss
Jerry Bernard Gibbons
Elmer Orland Gillespie
Kathryn Ednah Goette
Frank Archie Graham
Wilfred Morgan Hawkins
Claude Prindle Hildreth
W\illis Scott Howlett
Eugene William Johnson
Louis John Kennedy
William Webster Kimmel
Peter Cornelius Krupp


William James Larder
Harrold Byron Lehner
Willis Albert Litle
Frederic Curtis Locklin
Louis Owen Ludlum
Henry Goodrich McCormick
Allan Watson McCredie
John Edwin MacDonough
William Dominy McFadden
J. Bain McGilvray
H1asell Humphrey Madigan
Frederick Charles Mellish
Hugh John Morrison
Jay Milton Osborne
aye Palmer
Bert R. Parrish
Norman William Payne
Norman Ellis Phelps
Harry Wells Putnam
Arthur Rickel
Charles Homer Robison, B.S.,
Michigan Agricultural Coll.
Arthur Dodwell Saunders
Arthur Henry Savage
Halsey Caleb Sayrs
William Frederic Setzler
Frank Elliott Sharp
Arthur Kaye Steen
Anna Stukey
Peter Stukey
Nicholas Louis Swykert
Irvin Lynn Terry
George Benjamin Thuerer
Herbert Lee Toney, B.S., McMlinnville College
John Jacob Travis
Alex Mitchell Traxler
William A. Vance, Jr.




JUNE MEETING, 1903.


203


Mlyron Cornelius Verburg   Hlarry Glen Wiggins
Alphonsus Garrett Wall      Thomas Albert Wilhelm
Theodore Landon Watson      Charles Julian Woodhams
L,ewis Ganneti: Welch       Frank Rodman Woods
A'rthur Palmer Whittemore                           8I
Representatives of the Blair Coal Company were present
and discussed with the Beard their failure to carry out their
contract to furnish the University's supply of coal for tlle
past year.
On motion of Regent Dean, George M. Bartlett was
appointed Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing.
in the Department of Engineering for one year, salary:
$9g0, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Carey, Mr. Erastus R. Zimmerman
was appointed Clinical Assistant to, the Chair of Gynaecology in the Holnmopathic Medical College for one year without salary.
A communication wras received from Dr. A. B. Prescott
asking a conference with the Board by a committeee who are
interested in the establishment of a graduate council in the
University. The commnunication was referred to the Literary Committee for consideration.
Professor S. Lawrence' Bigelow submitted the following
communication from Parke, Davis & Co. of Detroit:
DETROIT, MICH.., UT. S. A., May 9, 1903.
PROF. S. LAW\RENCE BIGELOW,
Chemical Iaboratory, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Mich.:
Dear Sir-Permit us to answer your letter of April 30
placed before us by Doctor Francis.
We have pleasure in continuing the Parke, Davis & Co.
fellowship for another year. Kindly make the proper announcement to the authorities.
It is a satisfaction to be able to make this contribution
to the great work of M/ichigan's University, and we sincerely
hope that it may continue to bear good fruit.
Faithfully yours,
PARKE, DAVTS & Co.
W. M. WARREN, Gen'l Manager.
On motion of Regcent Barbour, the President was re



204


JUNE MEET'ING, 1903.


quested to transmit the thanks of the Board to Parke,
Davis & Company for the continuance of their fellowship in
chemistry.
Professor Stanley gave notice that 1Mr. J. E. Ecker of
Toledo, Ohio, had presented to the University a grand piano
mnade in upper Austria in 1837 and brought to this country
in I857, which is supposed to be the first attempt to use iron
in the construction of a piano case, and also to use hammers
on the strings. The instrument is to be placed with the
Stearns collection in the Museum.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the gift was received,
and the President was requested to transmit the cordial
thanks of the Board to Mr. J. E. Ecker for his valuable gift
to the Museum.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Mr. Robert L. Benson,
A.B., was appointed Assistant in General Chemistry for one
year at a salary of $300, and Alexis C. Houghton Assistant
in General Chemistry for one year at a salary of $I50, by
the full vote of the Board.
On recommendation of Professor E. D. Campbell, and
on motion of Regent Dean, Mr. Samuel Ball was appointed
as holder of the Gas Engineering Fellowship, supported by
the Michigan State Gas Association, for the coming year.
On motion of Regent Carey the Committee on Buildings
and Grounds were authorized to provide some means of
disposing of the refuse matter at the Homceopathic Hospital.
Regent Butterfield presented and read the following
communication from the Dean of the Law Department, and
the recommendations therein contained were approved by
the Board on a call vote:
ANN ARBOR, June 15, 1903.
To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of
Michigan:
Gentlemzen-I respectfully recommend the following:
The appointment of Mr. Henry M. Bates as Tappan Professor
of Law, salary, $3,000.
The appointment of Mr. Edwin C. Goddard as Professor of
Law and Secretary of the Law Faculty, salary, $2,500.
The appointment of Mr. Gustav Stein as Instructor in Law, salary, $900.




JUNE MIEETING, 1903.                     205
I further respectfully recommend the following appointnents for one year:
Mr. John W. Dwyer as Instructor in Law, salary, $I,200.
Mr. John R. Rood as Instructor in Law, salary, $1,200.
Mr. Edson R. Sunderland as Instructor in Law, salary, $1,200.
Hon. Henry H. Swan, Non-resident Lecturer on Admiralty,
salary, $350.
Dr. Victor C. Vaughan, Lecturer on Toxicology in its Legal
Relations, without salary.
Mr. Melville M. Bigelow, Non-resident Lecturer on Insurance,
salary, $500.
Mr. John B. Clayberg, Non-resident Lecturer on Mining Law
and on Irrigation Law, salary as Lecturer on Mining Law, $300;
Irrigation, $200.
Mr. Richard Hudson, Lecturer on Comparative Constitutional
Law, without salary.
MIr. Henry C. Adams, Lecturer on the Railroad Problem, with 
out salary.
Mr. Joseph H. Drake, Lecturer on Roman Law, salary as provided, $400.
Mr. Frank F. Reed, Non-resident Lecturer on Copyright Law
and the Law of Trademarks, salary, $Ioo.
Mr. Albert H. Walker, Non-resident Lecturer on Patent Law,
Salary, $300.
Mr. Dallas Boudeman, Non-resident Lecturer on Statute Law,
salary, $500.
Dr. William J. Herdman, Lecturer on Neurology, Electrology,
and Railway Injuries, without salary.
Mr. Harlow   P. Davock, Lecturer on Practice in Bankruptcy,
salary, $Ioo.
Mr. James W. Glover, Lecturer on Mathematics of Annuities
and Insurance, without salary.
Miss Gertrude Elstner Woodard, Assistant Law Librarian, salary, $900.
Mr. Clarence N. Boord, Assistant in Law Library, salary, $350.
Mr. Don D. Williams, Clerk, salary, $200.
H. B. HUTCHINS,
Dean.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was
directed to pay the overdraft on the budget of Hygiene, and
carry the deficit to their budget for the coming year.
Regent Barbour stated that Mlr. T. F. Parker had made




206


JUNE MIEETING, 1903.


application for two loans, one of $o0,000 and one of $7,000,
from the gift funds of the University.  The matter was
referred to the Finance Committee with power.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the following appointments were made in the Hygienic Laboratory for the ensuing
year:
Louis M. Gelston, reappointed Assistant in Hygiene, salary, $400.
Ward J. MacNeal, reappointed Assistant in Hygienic Laboratory, salary, $300.
Gordon Berry, A.B., Special Assistant in Hygienic Laboratory
in charge of water analysis, salary, $300.
The Board then took a recess until 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock P. Ai.
Some time was spent by the Board in considering the
case of Mr. Percy 0. Finigan, a studclent in the Dental
Department who had successfully passed all the work required for graduation, but the Faculty were in doubt about
recommending hin for the degree on account of certain rules
of the State Dental Association requiring longer time in
residence. The Board requested the Faculty to send in his
name for graduation. [M\r. Finigan's name is included in
the list of graduates on a preceding page.]
Doctors Taft, Watling and four students were called
before the Board for conference on matters pertaining to the
Dental Department. After a full investigation of the trouble
in the Dental Faculty, the Board instructed the President
to call for the resignations of Dr. Watling and Dr. Briggs.
On motion of Regent Dean, Mr. Herman W. March
was reappointed Assistant in Astronomy for one year.
Salary, $300.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the Medical Committee
were requested to formulate a code of rules, defining the
duties of the Superintendent and the duties of the Clinical
Faculty in the government of the Hospital.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the leave of absence of
Professor P. C. Freer, who is now in the employ of the




JUNE MEETI NG, 1903.


207


government in the Philippine Islands, was extended to October I, 1904.
On motion of Regent Dean, Mr. Richard R. Kirk was
appointed Assistant in Rihetoric for one year. Salary, $300.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Assistant Professor J. R.
Allen was made Junior Professor, salary, $2,000, and Instructor H. C. Anderson was made Assistant Professor, salary $I,6oo, by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Fletcher presented the following resolution,
which was adopted by the full Board:
Resolved, That Prof. M. E. Cooley be paid $500 from the Building Fund for making plans for the heating and plumbing in the new
buildings under construction and for supervising the work.
Mr. George S. Field of Detroit, who is now the custodian
of a part of the Williams fund, submitted his annual report,
which was, on motion, referred to the Finance Committee for
consideration.
The Board then took a recess until 7:30 o'clock.
EVENING SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 7:30 o'clock.
Regent Lawton presented the following communication
from the Dean of the Department of Medicine and Surgery,
and the recommnendations therein contained were approved
as indicated below by the full vote of the Board.
ANN ARBOR, June IO, I903.
H-ONORABLE CHARLES D. L\AWTON,
Chairman of the Committee of the Board of Regents on
the Department of Medicine and Surgery:
Dcar Sir-I am instructed by the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery of the University of Michigan to present to the Honorable Board of Regents the following requests:
1. The Medical Faculty endorses the action of the Hospital Committee with reference to the work in x-Ray diagnosis and lr-Ray therapy and photography. The recommendation from the Hospital Committee bearing on this point




208


JUNE MEETING, 1903.


has already gone to you through another channel. The
Hospital Committee recommends that all the work with the,r-Ray apparatus be placed under the charge of Mr. Vernon
J. Willey, Instructor in Electrotherapeutics. Unless work
with the.j-Ray apparatus is placed under the charge of
some responsible and competent person, there is great danger
that injury may be done the apparatus.
2. The Medical Faculty requests that your Honorable
body address a letter to the Joint Asylum Board asking that
Board to co-operate with the Board of Regents in inaugurating the work of the Psychopathic Ward.   I may say in
explanantion of this request that it is the intention of both
Medical Faculty and the superintendents of the various
Insane Asylums in the State, with your sanction, to employ
Dr. August Hoch, Medical Superintendent of the Psychopathic WAard and Junior Professor of Psychiatry and Neural
Pathology, and Pathologist to the State Asylums, with the
proviso that the Joint Board of the asylums will pay Dr.
Hoch's salary. Dr. Herdman or the Dean, or both of us, will
be glad to appear before your Board, if you deem it necessary, and explain the details of the proposed arrangement.
3. The Medical Faculty recommends that Dr. A. S.
Warthin be given the title of Professor of Pathology and
Director of the Pathological Laboratory. The reason for
this action lies in the fact that Dr. Warthin's position
appears to medical men in other faculities as somewhat
anomalous. Moreover, it has been stated that we have no
full Professor of Pathology, and the fact that Pathology is
under the control of the Professor of Theory and Practice
has led to some criticism. Compliance with this request does
not carry with it the necessity of changing or advancing
Dr. Warthin's salary at the present time.
4. The Medical Faculty requests that the title of Dr.
Frederick Baldwin be changed to Instructor in Pathology.
Dr. Baldwin is at present Assistant in Pathology and has a
salary of $500 a year. The change in title, it should be
understood, does not provide for any increase in salary
unless your Honorable body feel that it can comply with
the request made by the Faculty in the budget already submitted. Dr. Baldwin has done his work faithfully, has been
with us for a number of years, and the only inducement




JUNE MEETINrG, 1903.


209


that he has to stay is the hope that he may be called elsewhere.   The chances of his being called elsewhere will be
greatly enhanced by this proposed change in title.
5. The Medical Faculty earnestly requests that you provide for an extra interne in the Hospital.    This seems to
be necessary in order that the increased number of patients
in the Hospital may receive proper and prompt treatment.
In the list of instructors to be given later we make a recommencation for the filling of this position.   There are six
departments in the Hospital, and as there are only five
internes, it has been found that it is impossible to give the
patients in each department the prompt and proper treatment which they should have.
6. The following recommendations for appointments to
subordinate positions in the Medical Department, for the
year 1903-04, are herewith submitted:
That Dr. Jeanne C. Solis be reappointed Demonstrator of Nervous Diseases and Electrotherapeutics, salary, $500.
That Vernon J. Willey, Instructor in Electrotherapeutics, be
reappointed, salary, $6oo.
That Dr. Theophil Klingmann be reappointed Assistant in Diseases of the Mind and the Nervous System, salary, $200.
That George Herbert Curtis be reappointed Dispensing Clerk
in the Electrotherapeutical Laboratory, salary, $oo00.
That Dr. Cyrenus G. Darling be reappointed Lecturer on Genitourinary and Minor Surgery and Demonstrator of Surgery, salary,
$500.
That Dr. Ira D. Loree be appointed First Assistant in Surgery
in the place of Dr. Willard H. Tlutchings and at the same salary,
$200.
That Dr. Conrad Georg, Jr., be reappointed Second Assistant
in Surgery, salary, $ioo.
That Dr. Frederick R. Waldron be reappointed Third Assistant
in Surgery without salary.
That Dr. Ralph D. Fox be appointed Fourth Assistant in Surgery without salary.
That Dr. Edward A. Willis be reappointed Demonstrator in
Ophthalmic and Aural Surgery, Rhinology, and Larylngology, salary,
$500.
That Dr. Raymond Duane Sleight be reappointed Assistant in
Ophthalmic and Aural Surgery, salary, $200.




210


JUNE MEETING, 1903.


That Dr. Roger S. Morris be appointed Instructor in Internal
Medicine and Demonstrator of Clinical Medicine in the place of
Dr. James R. Arneill, and at the same salary, $900.
That Dr. David M. Cowie be reappointed First Assistant in
Internal Medicine, salary, $300.
That Dr. Warren P. Elmer be appointed Second Assistant in
Internal Medicine in place of Dr. Prentiss B. Cleaves and at the
same salary, $200.
That Dr. Charles W. Edmunds be reappointed Assistant in
Pharmacology, salary, $500.
That Dr. Simon M. Yutzy be reappointed Instructor in Osteology and Demonstrator of Anatomy, salary, $1,200.
That August Henry Roth, A. B., be reappointed First Assistant
in Anatomy, salary, $500.
That Frank S. Bachelder, B. S., be reappointed Second Assistant
in Anatomy, salary, $400.
That Dr. Frank R. Spencer be reappointed Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy, salary, $200.
That George G. Richards be reappointed Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy, salary, $200.
That Lucius A. Farnham be appointed Assistant Demonstrator
of Anatomy in place of John H. Crosby and at the same salary, $200.
That Lily T. Roche be reappointed Assistant Demonstrator of
Anatomy, salary, $200.
That Dr. Thomas S. Burr be reappointed Demonstrator of
Obstetrics and Diseases of Women, salary, $500.
That Dr. William H. Morley be reappointed First Assistant in
Obstetrics and Diseases of Women, salary, $200.
That Dr. Charles L. Patton be appointed Second Assistant in
Obstetrics and Diseases of Women without salary, unless provision
be made for a salary as asked for in Dr. Peterson's budget.
That Dr. Arthur P. Reed be appointed Third Assistant in Obstetrics and Diseases of Women without salary.
That Dr. Rowland L. Parmeter be appointed Assistant to the
Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women without salary.
That Dr. Ralph L. MIorse be reappointed Assistant in Obstetrics
and Diseases of Women in charge of laboratory work, salary, $500oo.
That Harry N. Torrey, B. S., be appointed Assistant in Bacteriology in place of J. W. Vaughan, at the same salary, $300.
That Dr. Frederick A. Baldwin be reappointed Assistant (or
Instructor, see above) in Pathology without change in salary, $500.
That Dr. James F. Breakey be reappointed Assistant in Dermatology, salary, $200.




JUNE MEETING, 1903.


211


That Dr. John Henry Gilpin be appointed House Physician in
place of Joshua G. Manwaring, salary, $400.
That Dr. Duncan L. Alexander be appointed Interne in University Hospital in place of Dr. John H. Gilpin, with same salary, $I25.
That Dr. Edward D. Kremers be appointed Interne in University Hospital in place of Dr. Frank J. Gibson, and at the same salary,
$I25.
That Dr. Samuel Osborn be appointed Interne in University
Hospital in place of Dr. Carl M. Erb, and at the same salary, $125.
That Dr. Ulysses S. C. Busch be appointed Interne in University
Hospital in place of Dr. Oscar H. Bruegel, and at the same salary,
$125.
That Dr. Wilfrid S. Fisher be appointed Interne in University
Hospital in place of Dr. Charles L. Patton, and at the same salary,
$125.
Provided your Honorable Board complies with the request for
Another interne in University Hospital, the Faculty recommends that
Dr. William S. Shipp be appointed Sixth Interne in the Hospital,
and at the same salary as the others, $I25.
That James P. Briggs be reappointed Pharmacist in University
Hospital, salary, $750.
That Miss Ida M. Tracy, now Acting Superintendent of the
Training School for Nurses, be appointed Superintendent for one
year.
That Walter B. Pillsbury be reappointed Special Lecturer on
Physiological Psychology without salary.
That Dr. Cressy L. Wilbur, Superintendent of Vital Statistics,
be reappointed Special Lecturer on Vital Statistics under present
arrangement, whereby his expenses while giving these lectures are
paid.
That Dr. Henry B. Baker, Secretary of the State Board of
Health, be reappointed Special Lecturer on the Administration of
Health Laws under the present arrangement for paying his expenses.
That Dr. William  M. Edwards, Superintendent of Michigan
Asylum, be reappointed Special Lecturer on Insanity under the
present arrangement.
That Dr. James D. Munson, Superintendent of Northern Michigan Asylum, be reappointed Special Lecturer on Insanity under
present arrangement.
That Dr. Edmund A. Christian, Superintendent of Eastern Michigan Asylum, be reappointed Special Lecturer on Insanity under the
present arrangement.
That Dr. George L. Chamberlain, Superintendent of Newberry




212


JUNE MEETING, 1903.


Asylum, be reappointed Special Lecturer on Insanity under the
present arrangement.
That Dr. Elijah AM. HIoughton be reappointed Special Lecturer
on the Preparation of Mledicines under the present arrangement.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
V. C. V\TxUGJGHXN,
Dean.
The Board took a recess until tomorrow (Wednesday)
morning at 9 o'clock.
MORNING SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 9 o'clock, Regent Carey being
absent.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the services of AV. H.
Payne, Professor of the Science and the Art of Teaching,
were reduced to half time with salary of $s,500, and the
President was authorized to offer Lewis B. Alger, A.B., a
Junior Professorship in Pedagogy with a salary of $2,000.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Secretary was
directed to send notice of the meetings of the Board c,f
Regents to the Superintendent of Public Instruction, Lansing, Mich.
The President presented the following communication
from Assistant Professor Karl E. Guthe, and on motion his
resignation was accepted:
ANN ARBOR, June 17, 1903.
To the Honorable Board of Regents, University of Michigan:
Gentlcimein-I have received an appointment as a meniber of the National Bureau of Standards at Washington,
D. C. Since this position offers the greatest facilities in
America for work in Physics and since the advantages for
research work are excellent; I am obliged to resign my position as Assistant Professor of Physics at the University of
Michigan, this resignation to take effect October I.
Yours very respectfully,
K. E. GUTHE.




JUNE MEETING, 1903.


213


Regent Farr submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted by the full Board:
Rcsolved, That the President is requested to notify Drs. Watling and Briggs that their resignations from the Dental Department
are desired, and that Dr. Taft be retained in the Department, but
relieved of the duties of Dean, at a salary of $1,500, the position of
Dean to be filled hereafter.
Harrison S. Smalley, A.B., was appointed Instructor in
Political Economy for one year in place of two Assistants,
resigned. Salary, $0oo. The appointment was made on a
call vote.
Regent Fletcher presented and read the resignation of
Mr. Milton H. Rix as Assistant Engineer, which was
accepted by the Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Superintendent Reeve
was authorized to purchase a team of horses for the Universitv.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the salary of August Ritz
was increased from $500 to $550, and the salary of Frederick East reduced from $6oo to $550, by the full vote of the
Board.
The President presented the resignation of Floyd R.
Mechem, Tappan Professor of Law, and the same was
accepted by the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Treasurer was authorized to pay the American Blower Company of Detroit the
sum  of $669, balance of their contract for heating the
Library building, and also the sum of $92.75 for additional
regulation in same building.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted that the
IUniversity contract with the American Radiator Company
of Chica-go for the radiation needed in the new Engineering
Buildin-, on the basis of their proposition now on file in t1he
Secretary's office.
On motion of Regent Iaw-ton, the Superintendent of
Buildings wias directed to put awnings on the Palmer ward,
at a cost of $I60, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Lawton, S. Lawrence Bigelow was
reappointed Assistant Professor of General Chemistry and




214


JUNE MlEET'ING,l 1'03.


Acting' Director of the Labloratory of General Chemistryfor one year. Salary, $l,60o.
Regent _Lawtoln pIresented the following' conmmunication
from  Dr. A. B. Prescott, Director of the Chemical Laboratory, and the recommlendations therein contained were approved by the fill vote of the Board:
ANN ARBOR, June i, 1903.
To the HIonorable the Board of Regents:
Gcltlelmenil  I beg' leave to recommend for appointment
for the year I903-04, lnder the budget of salaries in tlhe
Chemical Laboratory and the School of Pharmacy, as follows 
Homer C. Washburn, Ph.C., Assistant in Pharmacy, to succeed
Walter H. Blome, at same salary, $300.
Karl W. Zimmerschied, Assistant in Quantitative Analysis, to
succeed M. B. Kennedy, at same salary, $200.
Paul E. Demmler, Assistant in Quantitative Analysis, to succeed
H. H. Willard, at same salary, $I50.
William Seymour, Assistant in Analytical Chemistry, to succeed
F. D. Shenk, at same salary, $Ioo.
Nelson E. Tousley, Assistant in Organic Chemistry, to succeed
G. T. Davis, at same salary, $Ioo.
Lee H. Cone, B. S., Assistant in Research, without salary from
the University and as supported by a grant of the Carnegie Institute
for work under Professor Gomberg.
Edward Lucas, Dispensing Accountant in the Chemical Laboratory, to be continued for the year to come, at the same salary, $I,ooo.
James Glover, to be employed as Dispensing Helper in the Chemical Laboratory, for I903-04, at a salary of $300, in place of Geo-ge
Lutz, Jr., and other temporary assistance.
V'erv respectfully,
ALI ERT B. PRIESCOTT,
Director.
The Board voted to give Professor Kelsey a leave of
absence of twenty-five days during November next to enable
him to give a course of lectures at various points in tlhe
West.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Secretary was instructed to decline to pay the bill of the Ohio and Michigan
Coal Company of $82, balance on coal shipped the Univer



JUNE MEETING, 1903.


215


sitv to cover an emergency il our coal supply, which w'as to
be an immniediate delivery, 1ut said coal did not reach us for
more than four weeks after the order was given. We therefore decline to pay more than our contract price.
The Board then took a recess until 2 o'clock p. iM.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reasenmbled at 2 o'clock p. Mi., Regent Dean
in the chair.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted to purchase
six fire extinguishers for the Palmer ward at a cost of $63.
Regent   Barbour moved that an edition of 2,000 copies
of an address delivered by Professor H. C. Adams before
the Farmers' Club be printed for distribution.   It was so
ordered by the full Board.
The resignation of Dr. Chas. MI. Briggs was received
and accepted byv the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the salary of Thomas
Hopwood, chief engineer, was raised from $1,400 to $I,6oo
l)b the full vote of the Board.
The Board by a unanimous vote reorganized the Dental
Department as follows:
Dr. Cyrenus G. Darling, Acting Dean and Lecturer on Oral
Pathology and Surgery, salary, $I,ooo.
Dr. Jonathan Taft, Professor of the Principles and Practice of
Oral Pathology and Surgery, salary, $I,500.
Dr. Nelville S. Hoff, Professor of Prosthetic Dentistry, salary,
$2,000.
Dr. Louis P. Hall, Professor of Operative and Clinical Dentistry, salary, $1,6oo.
Dr. Egbert L. Loeffler, Professor of Dental Therapeutics, salary,
$2,000.
Instructor in Crown and Bridge Work to be filled, $900.
Robert B. Howell, D.D.S., Instructor in Comparative Anatomy
and Prosthetic Technics, salary, $800.
Marcus L. WTard, Instructor in Operative Technics and Operative Dentistry, salary, $500.
Elmer L. Whitman, Assistant in Prosthetic Dentistry, salary,
$300.
Viola HIubbard, Cashier, salary, $450.
Henry Purfield, Janitor, salary, $550.




216


JUNE MIEETING, 1903.


On motion of Regent Butterfield, James E. Burdett
and Norman S. Sterry, candidates for the degree of Bachelor
of Law s, were excused from attending the commencement
exercises on account of illness.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the degree of Doctor of
MIedicine was conferred upon Dr. Peter Folk, of Deavertown, Ohio, as of the class of r868.
The degree of Civil Engineer was conferred upon William Augustus Otis of Chicago as of the class of 1878.
The degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred upon
Melville Madison 3igelow, A.B., Dean of the Law School
(f Boston University, as of the class of i868.
On the recommendation of the Executive Committee, the
President was authorizedC bv the full vote of the Board to
confer the following honorary degrees upon the persons
named:
l,'fastcr of ArtS.
Jose Celos Barbosa, M. D., of San Juan, Porto Rico.
Stuart Edward White, Ph.B., of Grand Rapids.
George Proctor Wanty, LL.B., United States Judge for the
Western District of MAichigan.
John Jacob Abel, Ph.B., Professor in Johns Hopkins University.
Dr. Flemrming Carrow, Professor of Ophthalmology in the Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Michigan.
Doctor of Lazes.
The Very Rev. Andrew MIorrissey, A. M., President of Notre
Dame University.
Jeremiah Whipple Jenks, Ph.D., Professor of Political Science
in Cornell University.
Joseph Very Quarles, A. B., United States Senator from Wisconsin.
On motion the Board adiourned to Thursday, July I6,
at Io c/clock A  r.
JAMIES H. WADE,
Secretary.




JULY MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, July I6, I903. 
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at IO o'clock
M. M.
Present:  Regents Butterfield, Farr, Lawton, Dean, and
Barbour.
Absent: Regents Hill, Fletcher, and Carey.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting,
which were, on motion of Regent Dean. approved and
ordered printed.
Comlnmunications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the standing committees of the Board
for consideration.
On motion of Regent La.wton, tie salary of Professor
Louis P. Hall was made $2000, by the full vote of the Board.
Professor Roth addressed the Board on the subject of
Forestry.
The Board then took a recess until 2 o'clock p. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2?. M
Regent Farr submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted by the full Board:
Resolved, That the matter of Free Beds in the Palmer Ward be
under the superintendence and control of the Medical Faculty
subject to the approval of the Board. The. net income of the
Palmer Fund shall be used for the maintenance of the same. 'No
expenditure for the support of Free Beds in such ward shall be
made in excess of the net income of said fund in the hands of the
Treasurer.
The immediate control of the admission to the privileges of said
Free Beds shall be left with such member of the Medical Faculty as
shall be designated by it, and no person shall be admitted to the




218


JULY MEETING, 1903.


privilege of such beds except upon the order of the person so selected
by the Medical Faculty.
Orders for the expenses of such Free Beds shall be. drawn
by the person having charge of the same upon the Treasurer, and
when approved by the President and Secretary shall be paid out of
the funds in the hands of the Treasurer set apart for that purpose
and not otherwise.
On motion of Regent LawTton, the degree of Doctor of
Dental Surgery was conferred upon Hyacinth Lloyd Field,
by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the matter of arranging
the course in Forestry was referred to the President and
Professor Roth with power.
Regent Barbour stated that the State Forestry Commission was anxious to retain the services of Instructor
Charles A. Davis in the work of the Commission and had
agreed to pay $iooo per year towards his salary, provided
the University would pay $200, making his total salary
$I200. He moved that this arrangement be concurred in
by the Board, which was done on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the salary of Instructor
Vernon J. Willey, in the Department of Medicine and Surgery, was made $1ooo for one year, on a, call vote.
On motion of Regent Lawton, Professor Novy was
authorized to use $30o from the budget fund of the Hygienic
Laboratory  for   the  purchase   of  a'  photographing
apparatus.
Regent Dean moved that Mr. Howard B. Merrick,
B.S., be appointed Instructor for one year in surveying in
place of Charles B. Davis who filled the place the first semester of last year, salary $900; also that Mr. R. B. Jackson
be reappointed Assistant to the Dean of the Engineering
Department for one year at a salary of $300.
The motion was carried on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Dean, Mr. Clarence B. Morrill and
Mr. Claude H. Van Tyne were appointed Instructors in the
Summer School at salaries of $50 and $60 respectively by the
full vote of the Board.
Regent Dean submitted the following communication




JULY MEETING, 1903.


219


from  Professor Hudson, and the recommendations therein
contained were approved by the Board.
ANN ARBOR, July 2, I903.
PRESIDENT J. B. ANGETL,
Dear Sir-The Board of Regents appropriated the sum     of
$1050 for the payment of three assistants in History. For these
positions we have already selected two persons. The third will be
selected later on. I have the honor to nominate Frank Burr Marsh
as assistant in History at a salary of $60o a year, and Caroline E.
Pattengill as assistant in History at a salary of $250 a year.
Respectfully yours,
R. HuDsoN.
Regent Dean presented and read the resignation of A.
G. Hall, Instructor in Mathematics, which was on motion
accepted.
On the recommendation of Professor Beman, and on
motion of Regent Dean, Peter Field, Ph.D., and John N.
James, A.B., were appointed Instructors in Mathematics for
one year, salary $900.
Regent Butterfield submitted the following communication from Dr. W. B. Hinsdale, Dean of the Homoeopathic
College, and the recommendations were approved by the full
board.
ANN ARBOR, July 15, 1903.
To the Honorable The Board of Regents:
Gentlemen-It is recommended that the following appointments
be made for one year:
Gustave Wilson, M..D., Interne in hospital, salary $200.
A. J. Reynolds, M.D., Interne in hospital, salary $200.
A. E. Ibershoff, M.D, Assistant to Professor of Ophthalmology
and Otology, without salary.
O. R. Long, M.D., Lecturer on Mental Diseases, without salary.
W. A. Polglase, M.D., Lecturer on Nervous Diseases, without
salary.
R. H. Stevens, M.D., Lecturer on Dermatology, without salary.
Respectfully submitted,
W. B. HINSDALE.
On motion of Regent Lawton, Mr. Lionel Herman
Duschak was appointed Assistant in General Chemistry for
one year, salary $Ioo.




220


JULY MEETING, 1903.


Regent Barbour moved that the Board purchase 53 feet
front on the south side of the University lot on Woodward
avenue, in the City of Detroit, for the sum of $500o-payment to be made from the gift funds of the Universityand that the Finance and Building 'Committees procure
plans for an apartment house to be erected on' said lots, and
determine the funds from which the money shall be taken
for the erection of said building. They shall also determine
the value of the University lot, and transfer from the gift
funds a. corresponding amount to the general fund to reimburse the general fund for a part, of the money expended in
the completion of the Barbour Gymnasium, for which purpose the gift of the land in question was originally made.
(See Regents' Proceedings, January, I898, p. I85). It was
so ordered on a call vote.
On the recommendation of Professor Reighard, and on
motion  of Regent Dean, J. E. Duerden, Ph.D., was
appointed Acting Assistant Professor of Zoology for one
year in place of Instructor George Wagner, resigned, salary
$1 150. The appointment was made on a call vote.
Regent Barbour submitted the     following, resolution,
which was adopted by the Board:
Resolved, That the Secretary be directed to inform Charles
Hoertz and Company, the contractors of the new  engineering
building, that unless they proceed with the prompt completion of
their contract, the Board of Regents will take into its own hands the
completion of the said building and charge the contractors with the
expenses thereof.
Regent Dean presented alnd read the following communication from the Board of Directors of the School of Music,
and their request was granted upon the conditions named in
said communication.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
The University School of Music respectfully requests the Board
of Regents to furnish electrical power for the organ in use in the
School of Music building, compensation for same to be made by the
School of lMusic, at the same rates which are now being paid to the
ci y company.
In explanation of this request, the following statement is made:
The organ is supplied with a low-tension motor and with other




JULY MEETING, 1903.


221


apparatus designed for low-tension service. The city company is
now changing to high-tension service. By an exchange of motors,
which would entail considerable expense upon the school, we could
operate the organ with the new power, except the appliances for
furnishing: electricity to the key-board; this cannot be operated with
the high-tension system, and, we must, therefore, secure some other
source of power or be practically deprived of the use of our organ.
The amount of power used is small, a boy being able to furnish
the force necessary; the power will be required for a period of sev(ral hours daily during' the season when the school is in session; the
hours during 'which the organ is used are during the day time,
almost entirely.
We dislike exceedingly to bother the Board of Regents with
this matter, but there seems no other source available.
Respectfully submitted by the Board of Directors of the school.
G. F. ALLMENDINGER,
Chr. Finance Con.
Professor Beman stated that he was unable to secure
such men as the University ought to have, as Instructors in
Mathematics, to fill the places now vacant, for a salary of
$900. Regent Barbolur moved        that he be    allowed  to
offer a salary of $1200 for each of the two men needed. The
motion was carried. as follows:
Ayes-Regents Butterfield, Barbour and Dean.
Nays-Regents Farr and Lawton.
Regent Barbour moved that Instructor James W. Glover
be made Assistant Professor of Mathematics with salary of
$i600.
The motion was carried by a unanimous vote.
On motion of Regent Dean, Professor Asaph Hall was
retained as Professor of Astronomy for one year at a salary
of $2000.
Mr. Holland, in charge of the bindery and printing plant,
asked permission to purchase a numbering machine at a cost
o!f $I5.  The expenditure was allowed.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Secretary was directed
to print in the proceedings of the Board that portion of the
will of the late Love M. Palmer which describes her bequest
to the University, as follows:


"Eighth-I hereby give and bequeath to the Regents of the




222


JULY MEETING, 1903.


University of Michigan the sum of twenty thousand dollars ($20,ooo) to be expended by them in the erection [of] an appropriate and
handsome ward of the University Hospital, to be known as 'The
Dr. A. B. Palmer Memorial Ward.' And I also give to said Regents
of the University of Michigan the further sum of fifteen thousand
dollars ($15,000) in trust, the income from the same to be devoted
to the support and maintenance of free beds, in said building or
ward, known as the 'Dr. A. B. Palmer Memorial Ward.'"
On motion of Regent Dean, the salary of A. S. Berry,
carpenter in the engineering shops, was made $2.25 per day,
by the full vote of the Board.
A committee of the city council appeared before the
Board and stated that the council had voted to submit to the
voters of the city a proposition to raise by tax the sum of
$20,000 for the erection and completion of a joint detention
hospital, provided the University will heat and light the
same, and provide nurses and medical attendants.  In other
words, the University should maintain said hospital and care
for all city patients with contagious diseases.
Regent Farr moved that the proposition by the city to
erect a joint hospital for the treatment of contagious diseases
commends itself to the Board and will have their careful
consideration. This motion was carried by the full Board.
On motion the Board adjourned to Wednesday, Sept. 9,
at Io o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




SEPTEMBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF M/ICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, Sept. 9, 1903.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at io o'clock
A. M.
Full Board present except Regent Butterfield.
The Secretary read the minutes of last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Hill, approved and ordered
printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the standing committees of the Board
for consideration.
On motion of Regent Fletcher,the Secretary was authorized to sign the lease submitted by the Ann Arbor railway
for ground on which to store University co'al, after certain
changes have been made as indicated by the Board.
)n motion of Regent Barbour, the President was
requested to transmit the thanks of the Board to Mr. C. M.
Burton, of Detroit, for making an abstract of the Whitney
lot in that city without expense to the University.
Regent Barbour moved that a case of drawers be constructed for maps in the Library, and temporary shelving be
placed on the walls of the first and second stories of the
addition to the book room, at a cost not exceeding $200, and
if the work cannot be begun by our own men by October I it
shall then be given to outside contractors. It was so ordered
by the full Board.
Regent Farr moved that Superintendent Reeve be authorized to purchase a new mangle and washer for the laundry
all set in place ready for use, according to the proposal of
the American Laundry Machinery Company now on file, for
the sum of $I368, and the old mangle. This motion was
carried on a call vote.
The question of supplying the University laundry with
soft water was referred to the Committee on Buildings and
Grounds.




224


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1903.


Tile President then presented and read his annual report,
after calling Regent Barbour to the chair. The report is as
follows:
THE PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
I have the honor to present to you my Report for the year
ending September 30, 1903.
During that period your attention has been largely
directed to the construction of new buildings. Never before
in the history of the University has so much work of that
kind been proceeding at once. The addition of some special
gifts to our regular resources has made this possible, though
the exceptionally great cost of building at this time has made
a draft upon our treasury which we would gladly have been
spared. We have completed and taken possession of the
new Medical Building. It is admirably adapted to the purposes for which it was designed, and adds very greatly to
the strength of our medical instruction.
We have also completed and occupied the Palmer Ward,
which the generous bequest of the late Mrs. Dr. Palmer
enabled us to erect as a memorial to her husband. But we
deemed it wise to add an expenditure of about $5,000 to,
adapt the building completely to the needs of the Hospital
of which it forms a part.
We have also finished the large building which contains
the new boiler house and the laundry adjacent to the University Hospital. We shall now be able to heat the new Psychopathic Ward as well as the University Hospital from this
house. We have a sense of relief at the removal of the
boilers from the basement of the building, in which the
nurses lodged, since the danger to them from accidental
explosion is thus removed. The spacious laundry now easily
cares for the needs of both the University Hospital and the
Homoeopathic Hospital.
The Psychopathic Ward, for which the State made a
special appropriation, at last approaches completion, and will
soon be occupied. We regret exceedingly the long delay in
the erection of this structure and tlso what we regarded as




SEPTEMBER MIEETING, 1o03.


225


the necessity of adding $5,000 from the University treasury
to fire-proof the upper part of the building. But we thought
that we should hardly be acquitted of blame if from lack of
secure construction any of the peculiar class of patients who
are expected to occupy that ward should be harmed in case
of fire.
The new Engineering Building, which is to be the largest
and most costly structure on our grounds, is well advanced,
but to our regret is far from being completed. Large as it
is, there is every indication that owing to the strong inclination of students at this time for engineering branches every
foot of room in it will be needed by the time it is ready for
occupancy.
Let it not be thought that we are constructing more buildings than are necessary. The rapid and continuous increase
in the number of our students, the need of the very best facilities for instruction, the enlargement of the plant for heating
and lighting, which the addition of new buildings or the
enlargement of old ones calls for, have compelled us to incur
an expense which we would gladly have avoided. Indeed,
nothing but the limits to our means prevent us from carrying
still further this work of construction. As has been intimated
in previous reports, we need at once a considerable addition
to the Physical Laboratory, an entirely new building for the
Dental Department, which is wretchedly housed, an enlargement of the Library for seminary rooms and more book
room, the reconstruction of the interior of the old Medical
Building, which is worn out, not to speak of ampler accommodations for the students of History and Eco:nomics, of a
laboratory for the Natural Sciences and of a new Chemical
Laboratory. For some time to come all the money we can
accumulate for our building fund, after making provision
for the work of instruction, is sure to be required to meet
really pressing wants. It is a problem, of no little delicacy
and difficulty to decide how much of our income we can
annually set aside for buildings without curtailing unduly
our appropriations for apparatus, books and salaries. While
we cannot be blind to the urgent need of the repair or
enlargement of our oldbuildings and of the addition of new




226


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1903.


buildings, we cannot properly overlook the facts that good
teachers rather than fine structures make a good university,
that with our modest scale of salaries we are constantly
exposed to the danger of losing some of- our most useful
professors, and that with our growing classes we must have
an increasing number of instructors or be content with a
diminution in the efficiency of our teaching.
Whether we consider merely the prosperity of the University or the welfare of the State at large, it is most encouraging to observe how the weaker high schools of the State
are becoming strong, and how   the stronger schools are
improving the quality of their work. It is not many years
since some of the leading college men in the East were disposed to speak rather slightingly of high schools as preparatory schools for colleges, and to look with sympathy
mainly upon the academies and private schools as the
nurseries of college students. But that day has passed even
in New England, and it has hardly ever been known in Michigan. While we have a few excellent private schools and
academies in this State, yet both here and in the Western
states generally the great mass of students are and will continue to be trained for college in the public lAgh schools.
It is therefore a cause for the greatest satisfaction on our
part that the improvement in the high schools already established in the West is going on so rapidly and that the number of such schools which can properly prepare students for
college work is multiplying at a most gratifying rate. One
of the first ambitions of every western town, whose population and wealth will permit it, is to have a good high school.
The law which has now been passed, permitting the centralization of the school districts in a township, is likely to
encourage the providing of high school instruction in many
towns where it has been impracticable heretofore.  Such
instruction may thus be brought within the easy reach of a
large number of youths to whom it has been inaccessible.
It is highly probable that a similar cause will operate to
increase largely the demands on the colleges and universities in all the Western states. It is not extravagant, therefore, to predict that at no distant day, from this and other




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1903.


227


cooperative causes, the number of students at this University
will be doubled, as it has already been doubled within the
last fifteen years.
The number of Michigan schools from which we receive
students on diploma, after an inspection of such schools by
the University Examiner, is 127. Ten years ago the number
was 78. Several of these schools have been strengthened
through the sympathetic encouragement and counsel of the
University authorities, until they have worthily gained a
place upon our list. Not the least important part of the
work of the University has been its influence, exerted both
directly and indirectly, in the development of the high
schools. In its earliest days it accomplished excellent results
by the establishment of the branch schools, which were finally
transformed into the earliest high schools organized in the
State. In I870 it inaugurated the plan, ever since followed,
of visiting and examining schools and of receiving without
examination the graduates of such schools as were found
prepared to fit scholars for our classes. That plan, borrowed
with adaptations from the German system, has been adopted
generally by the colleges and universities in the states west
of us, and by not a few in the East. Under sharp discussion
it has gained rather than lost ground. We have established
this so-called diploma relation with a considerable number
of schools in the states adjacent to Michigan. Since it is
burdensome to us to visit schools in those states, the official
examiners of this University and of our sister universities
in those states are endeavoring, with good prospects of
success, to fix upon some plan by which each university
may safely receive the verdict of the other universities on the
merits of at least the stronger schools in their respective
states. If the plan meets in practice our expectations, it
must bring us into close relations with a considerable number
of schools remote from us and probably cause a substantial
addition to our body of students. This cooperation of the
universities in a spirit so free from jealousy is most gratifying. In truth, there is no ground for jealousy in respect to
students. For the rapidly increasing population of the Northwest, the prosperity of its inhabitants, the general desire for




228


SEPTEJMBER MEETING, 1903.


higher education, and the development of the high schools
all contribute to crowd the halls of colleges, universities and
technological schools in our section of the country. The
problem is not so much to secure students as to provide for
the proper accommodation and education of those who throng
the halls of the better institutions. And in the history of our
country there is nothing finer than the generous provision
which Michigan and her sister states in the West have
made for education.  If the sums which the legislatures
appropriate for universities are capitalized at the rate 'of
four or five per cent, it will be found that they represent
amounts fairly comparable with the permanent endowments
of most of the ancient and stronger universities in the Eastern
states.
The total attendance' during the past year, 3,792, differs
but very little from that of the previous year, 3,782. Excluding the Summer School there was a gain of 21, including that
school,'a gain of Io. -The slight loss in some departments,
and the heavy loss in the Dental Department, were more than
made good by the unusually large gain of I20 in the Engineering Department. The same causes which were operative
in cutting down the numbers in the Dental School last year
still held back the attendance this year, namely, the high
requirements for admission and the lengthening of the course
to four years. But it is expected now that most of the
other strong schools will this year redeem their promise to
establish the four years' course in imitation of ours. In that
case we may reasonably hope that our school will regain its
relative attendance within a year or two.
For the first time, I think, in the history of the University we can record the interesting fact that among our students were one or more representatives from every one of
the states of our. Union.  All of our territories, except
Alaska, and all of our new possessions, the Hawaiian Islands,
Porto Rico, and the Philippines, and the following foreign
states and provinces were represented, Japan, China, India,
South Africa, Turkey, Austria, Germany, England, Bulgaria,
Mexico, Jamaica, Ontario, Quebec. The number in attendance from Indiana, Ohio, New York and Pennsylvania con



SEPTEMBER MEETI.NG, 1903.


229


tinues to increase, being respectively 165, 306, I58, I27, while
the number from Illinois, though 12 less than the preceding
year, is still 314. From New England we received 36. This
widespread and undiminished appreciation of the work of
this University is most gratifying. By ministering to the sons
and daughters of the whole Union, this institution is
repaying in some degree the debt which it owes to the nation,
which, through the Congressional grant of two townships of
land, furnished the original endowment for its foundation and
support. The State, on the other hand, recognizes with gratitude the fact that other states have contributed to her many
of her most useful citizens, who, having as students been
attracted hither by the University, have taken up their permanent abode here and enriched her by their lives.
The number of women in attendance (exclusive of the
Summer School) was as follows:
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 654
Department of Medicine and Surgery..............  35
Department of Law.                                  5
Department of Law.............................  5
School of Pharmacy..............................   3
Homceopathic Medical College..........            12
College  of Dental Surgery.........................  5
714
An inspection of the figures of the preceding year shows
that there is this year a slight decrease in the attendance of
women as compared with that of men, namely, of five-tenths
of one per cent in the entire University and of seven-tenths
of one per cent in the Literary Department.
The discussion of the expediency of the co-education of
the sexes has been reopened in some quarters, because one
large university has decided to try the experiment of separate instruction of the sexes during the first two years of
the undergraduate course, and two or three other privately
endowed universities have been considering the wisdom of
limiting the number of women whom they will admit. Without attempting to judge whether there are any peculiar conditions in these institutions which call for the action they
propose, it is safe to say that the state universities are not




230


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1903.


likely to change their policy with respect to the admission of
women. So far as I know, nothing in their experience suggests the necessity of considering the question, whether their
long established policy needs to be modified.
In accordance with its desire and aim to be of the utmost
service to Michigan, the University is strengthening its work
in training men in the science and the art of Forestry. One
of the gravest economic problems in our State is presented
by the desirableness of restoring, if possible, the forests which
have been destroyed and of properly caring for the woodlands
which are still left. Many millions of acres, which have been
stripped of valuable pine, are lying comparatively worthless.
Over six millions of acres of such lands have reverted to the
State because the owners chose to surrender them rather than
pay the taxes on them. Through the generosity of Regent
F. W. Fletcher a tract of over eight thousand acres has come
into the possession of the University.  Mr. Filibert Roth,
B. S., one of our graduates, who has been an Instructor in
Forestry in Cornell University and who has been engaged in
work in Forestry under the National Agricultural Department,
has now been appointed Professor. Through him we expect
to cooperate with our State Forestry Commission in directing
public attention to the high importance of improving our
woodlands, while we are preparing young men for taking
responsible positions in caring wisely for the woodlands we
have and for the useful service, if it proves practicable, of
reforesting waste lands which have been denuded of their
forests and left in barrenness. It is believed that our situation affords special facilities for students of forestry, and
the instruction in the scientific branches required is already
provided for. There is now sufficient call for the courses in
forestry to indicate that we have not entered upon this work
too early.
With the purpose of meeting a pressing public need we
also made provision in the Department of Medicine and Surgery last April for the treatment of patients who had been
bitten by mad dogs. It was observed that in this State and in
adjoining states there was great danger of loss of life from
hydrophobia. A considerable number of persons were bitten.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1903.


231


As they could be successsfully treated only by going to Chicago or New York and by being subjected to pretty large
expense, we undertook to care for Michigan patients gratuitously, and some twenty-three from various parts of the
State have been relieved. This act has, it is believed, been
warmly appreciated by the public.
Our Hospitals are of course always rendering a gratuitous service to a great number of needy patients. In the
University Hospital there were during the year 2,526
patients, and in the Homceopathic Hospital I,875. A majority of these are persons who earn their living by manual toil.
They are treated without any charge for the medical and
surgical care they receive. Among them are residents of
seventy-nine counties of this State.
The Library contained on June 30 last 174,740 volumes
and 3,300 pamphlets. The recorded circulation of books was
I68,603. We are suffering for the want of room for the
storage of books, and even more for the lack of seminary
rooms for advanced students. As the Library is the very
heart of a university, it is to be hoped that the day is not
distant when our building can be enlarged.
The Report of the Curator of the Museum shows that it
is visited by an average of nearly a hundred persons daily.
It becomes a serious question in the administration of such a
museum, which is intended primarily to contain scientific
collections, how far it shall receive objects which are simply
rare or curious, but which have no special scientific value.
Some of them are interesting to visitors, and so attract
attention. But unless a conservative policy in regard to
accepting everything which is offered to us, is followed, we
shall soon have much of the room in the building occupied by
articles of no great scientific importance.
It is noteworthy that museums are apt to be better
supplied with scientific specimens from remote regions than
from their immediate neighborhood. We should like it to
be understood that specimens illustrating the flora and fauna
and archaeology of our own state are especially desirable and
will be very gratefully received.




232


SEPTEM3BER MEETING, 1903.


The general work of the University in all its departments
was carried on in a vigorous, earnest and orderly manner,
which is the best indication of a healthy life, but which calls
for no special remark in this Report.
The Summer School during this past season had a larger
attendance than ever before, namely:
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 382
Department of Medicine and Surgery................  68
Department of Law............................... 74
524
Of these I50 were regular students of the University. The
others are chiefly teachers, most of them from high schools,
but some from colleges. They are very earnest workers.
The value of the school to them and to the University is
beyond question. Not a few of the teachers, who have not
had the opportunity to gain a college education, are inspired
while here to return and enter upon a regular collegiate
course.
It were much to be desired that we had the means for
publishing in the name of the University the results of many
of the scientific, literary, economic and historical researches
made by members of our Faculties. They form valuable and
distinct contributions to knowledge. They now appear, if at
all, in various magazines, journals and proceedings of
learned societies, not infrequently in journals published by
other universities, which thus rather than we gain the reputation accruing from such publications. The professors of the
ancient classics are about to bring out a collection of papers
which will bear the name of the University. If it is successful, it is hoped it may directly or indirectly open the way for
the University at little expense to publish other series. I
know of no way in which a private contribution, which need
not be very large, would be more useful than in the aid of an
enterprise for the publication of the results of University
researches. I am confident that the friends of the institution,
as well as scholars generally, would be surprised to see how
many and how creditable they are.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1903.


233


Grave as are the problems which the continuous growth
of the University and the constantly rising standard of
higher education in this country press upon the Board of
Regents and the Faculties for consideration, we enter upon
another year with confidence and hope, because we witness
so many gratifying evidences that the State of Michigan is
willing and eager to sustain the University with liberality,
and that far beyond her borders, in this land and in foreign
lands, there is a hearty appreciation of the work she does.
JAMES B. ANGELL.
On motion of Regent Hill the report of the President
was accepted and an edition of 8000 copies was ordered
printed for distribution.
The President presented and read the following communication from Professor Albert A. Stanley:
ANN ARBOR, September 8, 1903.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
'Gentlemnen-Through the kindness of M\r. C. M' Post of the
firm of Lyon & Healy of Chicago, Illinois, the Stearns Collection
of Musical Instruments of the University of Michigan has been
enriched by the gift of several unique instruments. These instruments are reproductions of famous and historical instruments and
were especially constructed for exhibition at the Columbian Exposition of I893. Since then they have been on view at the Field
Museum, but the firm were willing and desirous that they should be
part of a permanent collection consisting entirely of musical instruments. WQ have also received several models of actions from Mr.
H. H. Drummond, head of the pianoforte department of the above
named firm.
Respectfully,
AIBERT A. STANLEY.
On motion the President was requested to transmit the
thanks of the Board to Mr. C. M. Post, and through him to
Messrs. Lyon &    Healy, for their valuable gift to our
museum.
On motion of Regent Hill, the salary of Duane R. Stuart
in the summer school for 1903 was fixed at $I80, and that of
J. C. Thorpe at $150.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Chairman and Secretary of the summer school were requested to take up with




234


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1903.


the railroads the question of special rates to students, not
only for the summer session, but for the regular session as
well.
On motion of Regent Hill, Mr. Charles Bruce Vibbert
was appointed as assistant to the Professor of Philosophy for
one year, salary $250, and the sum of $450 was appropriated
for an Assistant in Psychology, to be named later, by the
full vote of the Board.
Regent Hill presented and read the resignations of H.
S. Jennings, Assistant Professor of Zoology, and Herbert
D. Carrington, Instructor in German, which were, on motion,
accepted by the Board.
Regent Hill moved that the following routine appointments be made in the Department of Zoology and in the
Museum for one year: Mr. W. N. Fuller, Mr. C. F. C.
Riley, A.B., Mr. G. A. Ruthven, B.S., Mr. Ellis Michael and
Miss Jean Dawson to be Assistants in Zoology, at a salary
of $I50 each; Miss Frances Dunbar, Assistant in Zoology,
salary $Ioo; and Mr. M. Raymond Harrington to be Assistant in the Museum, salary $150. The motion was carried
on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Hill,,the following appointments
were made in the Department of Physics for one year by the
full vote of the Board: Mr. B. F. Bailey, Instructor in
Electrical Engineering, salary $900; C. M. Jansky and
Frank L. Cooper to be Assistants in Physics, salary $300
each.
On motion of Regent Hill, Mr. Luis M. Perez was
appointed Assistant in History for one year, salary $200,
by the full vote of the Board.
The President submitted the following report of the
action of the Executive Committee since the last session of
the Board, which was approved by the full Board.
ANN ARBOR, September 9, 1903.
To the Board of Regents:
The Executive Committee have appointed Mr. A. B. Pierce and
Mr. T. R. Running Instructors in Mathematics for one year at the
salary of $I200 a year each.
And also they have appointed Arthur W. Smith, Ph. D., Instruc



SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1903.


':35


tor in Physics for three years at the salary of $I200 a year. This
appointment is made necessary by the resignation of Assistant
Professor Guthe.
-JAMES B. ANCELL.
Regent Hill presented and read the following communication from Professor Scott:
ANN ARBOR, Sept. 8, 1903.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Gentlemen-I have pleasure in calling your attention to a proposition recently submitted to me by Willis J. Abbot, editor of the
Pilgrim Magazine. Mr. Abbot offers to deliver to our students
without expense to them or to the University, a course of six
lectures on Modern Journalism in the United States, covering the
following subjects: I. Journalism as a Profession; 2. The Organization of a Newspaper; 3. The Collection and Treatment of News;
4. Magazines and Weekly Publications. The lectures would form
a part of the course in newspaper writing which I have announced
in the Department of Rhetoric for the coming semester.
Mr. Abbot is a graduate of the Literary Department in the class
of 1884. He has had wide experience in newspaper work and is an
author of repute. The proposed lectures would doubtless be an
original and a valuable contribution to a subject that is just now
attracting considerable attention.
Respectfully,
F. N. ScoTT.
On motion of Regent Hill, the proposition of Mr. Abbot
was accepted by the full Board.
The Board then took a recess until I:30 o'clock p. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at I:30 o'clock P. M.
Regent Hill moved that the sum     of $50 be appropriated for the purpose of aiding the Students' Christian Association in publishing a handbook of information for new
students.  The motion was carried on'a call vote.
Regent Lawton submitted the following communication
from  Dr. A. B. Prescott, and on his motion the Board
expressed their willingness to make the salary of Assistant
Professor Schlotterbeck permanent at $2000 on the return
of Professor A. B. Stevens.




236


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1903.


ANN ARBOR, Sept. 3, I903.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents,
Regent Lawton, Chairman of Department Committee:
Dear Sir-Circumstances make it important to learn, if possible,
from the Board, whether or not the advance which has just been
made for next two years in the salary of J. 0. Schlotterbeck, $600o
to $2000, can be made a permanent advance by action of the Board
one year hence.
This increase was made, at last May meeting, by reason of the
leave of absence of Assistant Prof. A. B. Stevens for two years.
That is, the Stevens' salary discontinued, $I600, was applied for next
two years to pay Instructor Blome $900, increase to Schlotterbeck
$400, and authorize $300 for a non-resident lecturer.
Now Dr. Schlotterbeck is solicited by a large manufacturing
house to take a position with them at not less than 3000 dollars.
He has replied, certainly not for the next year, being obligated to
remain here that time. He has then been assured that, if arranged
now, the same offer would be open to him one year hence.
Dr. Schlotterbeck says he would like to know now, if he is to
resume the rate of $1600 upon the return of Prof. Stevens in I905,
as in that case, though with great regret, he would be compelled to
leave the University a year hence and take this offer, in justice to
his professional interests. He has been an assistant professor since
I896.
It seems to me a fair question on the part of Dr. Schlotterbeck. 'I stated my judgment, as to retaining his services, in my
report on the salary budget for next year. I know of no personal
claims that stand in the way of his permanent advance to junior
professorship. Its effect on the salary budget would begin two
years hence, and then make an increase of $400.
I do not ask that his title be now changed to junior professor,
with permanent appointment at $2000, not if the Board find this inadvisable, but I respectfully ask that the Board express their intention,
or expectation, of this action one year from now.
Very respectfully,
A. B. PRgscoTT.
Regent Lawton moved that the salary of Dr. M. L.
Ward, Assistant in 'Clinical and Operative Dentistry, be
increased to $8oo, and that Mir. R. W. Bentley be appointed
Assistant to the Dean of the Dental Department and to the
Professor of Prosthetic Dentistry, without salary.
The motion was carried on a call vote.
The question of appointing Dr. Taft as Librarian of the




SEPTEMBER IMEETING, 1903.


237


Dental Library with salary of $500, was deferred until the
next meeting.
Regent Lawton submitted a code of rules for the government of the hospitals which were referred to the Medical
Committee for consideration.
On motion of Regent Lawton, Lydia M. DeWitt was
appointed Instructor in Histology for one year, salary $600,
by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Hill, Harrison M. Randall, Ph.D.,
was reappointed Instructor in Physics for one year, salary
$I200, by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Dean moved that Superintendent Miggett, be
authorized to employ a pattern maker in the engineering
shops at $2.50 per day. The motion was carried unanimously.
On motion of Regent Dean, Mr. W. L. Miggett, superintendent of shops,, was made a member of the Engineering
Faculty.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Architect Kahn was
directed to have the kitchen for the pyschopathic ward placed
in the north end of the building.
Regent Fletcher moved that the contract to furnish pipe
and fittings for the new 'engineering building, according to
the specifications and schedule, be awarded to the John Davis
Company of Chicago, they being the lowest bidders, for the
sum of $4582.88. It was so ordered by the full Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Mr. Fred McDonald was,
appointed assistant engineer in charge of the lighting plant
for one year in place of Mr. Rix, resigned, salary $850, by
the full vote of the Board.
Regent Fletcher moved that the Secretary be authorized
to pay Mr. R. B. Jackson, assistant superintendent olf the
new engineering building, an additional compensation of $30
per month for the months of July and August.
The motion was carried on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted to pay the
contractor of the new engineering building $85 for making
conduits or channels in the fire proofing in order that the
steam and water pipes may be exposed.




238


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1903.


The request of the firemen for an increase of pay was
deferred until the next meeting.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was.voted to pay Albert
Kahn, architect, $700 for professional services on the new
engineering  building, and  $300 on the account of the
psychopathic ward.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the bill of Pond & Pond,
architects, for making plans for an extension to the Physical
Laboratory, was laid on the table until the next meeting.
Regent Hill moved that the contract for covering all the
exposed pipes and surfaces in the new boiler house, the tunnel to the psychopathic ward, and in the Palmer ward, be
awarded to the Philip Carey Mf'g Company of Detroit for
the sum of $I62I.I4.
The motion was carried on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Treasurer was directed to
make a loan from the class fund of 1894, to Miss Mary
Louise Smith of $80 and the interest on the entire fund for
two years. This action was taken on the recommendation
of a committee of said class.
The President presented the resignation of Judge A. V.
McAlvay, as Professor of Law, to take effect October I,
1903.
On motion the resignation was accepted.
The Faculty of the Homceopathic Hospital gave notice
that the following persons had completed the  -ork in the
Training School for Nurses, and were recommended for
graduation:
Florence Atchison   Alma Howard        Ida Lockhart
Bessie Sinclair     Geneva Allen        Hattie Wilson.
On motion of Regent Carey, the President and Secretary were authorized to issue the proper certificates of graduation and attach the seal of the University thereto.
M'r. W. A. Hurst, Assistant Secretary of the State Commission of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, was present
for the purpose of ascertaining whether the University
desired to make an exhibit at St. Louis. After some discussion the matter was referred to the President and Secretary




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1903.              239
and Regent Dean, for consideration and report at the next
meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the proposition of J. E.
Bolles & Company, of Detroit, to put fire escapes on the
nurses' ward at University Hospital was accepted, provided
they will place them on the east and west sides, instead of the
north end, at a cost of $I75.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the proposition of the
Powers Regulator Company, of Chicago, to install one of
their automatic tank regulators with four valves in the
psychopathic ward for the sum of $II5, was referred to the
Auditing Board with power.
On motion the Board adjourned to Wednesday, Oct. 14,
at o1 o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




OCTOBER MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,     1
ANN ARBOR, October 14, I903.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at 10 o'clock
A. M.
Present-Regents Butterfield, Hill, Lawton, Barbour,
Fletcher, and Carey.
Absent-Regents Farr and Dean.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion, approved and ordered printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the standing committees of the Board
for consideration.
On motion of Regent Barbour, it was voted that the fire
escapes at University Hospital be placed on the north end of
the buildings.
Professors D'Ooge, Demmon, and Whitney, on behalf of
the contributors to the fund for the purchase of the portrait,
then presented to the Board an excellent oil portrait of the
late Professor B. A. Hinsdale.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the picture was accepted
by the Board, and the Secretary was directed to have it hung
in the Art Gallery of the University.
Professor Demmon, chairman of a committee raised by
the University Senate, to consider the advisability of the
University making an exhibit at the Louisiana Purchase
Exposition, was present and made the following report:
ANN ARBOR, Oct. I2, I903.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
The Committee of the University Senate, appointed by the
President to consider and report on the question of an exhibit at




242            OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.
the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, beg leave to present the following facts and suggestions for the consideration of your honorable
body:
We have ascertained by correspondence that the leading universities of the country-Harvard, Yale, Cornell, Chicago, Wisconsin,
and Illinois, together with several smaller institutions, will make
exhibits of greater or less scope. We are also informed that the
exposition authorities, without any suggestion from this University,
have set apart a room 22'2X3I feet in the Palace of Education for
the use of the University of Michigan. If we are to occupy this
space, the Committee thinks the exhibit should consist, in the
main, of the following:
I. An illustrated pamphlet of from thirty to fifty pages containing a readable account of the rise and growth of the University,
with cuts of the buildings, tables of statistics, etc.,-this to be distributed freely to all visitors who care for it. (Such a pamphlet
would have permanent use for distribution from  the offices here
also.)
2. Bound volumes of reprints, so far as obtainable, showing
the results of scientific research at the University. This should
also include copies of printed theses accepted for the degree of
Doctor of Philosophy at this University; also, a carefully prepared
bibliography of publications by the various officers of instruction.
3. Models, charts, drawings, photographs of buildings, etc. For
this exhibit, there are about one thousand square feet of space at
our disposal.
In addition to these attractions it is thought desirable to make
this room a sort of headquarters for Michigan University graduates while at the Fair. This would necessitate providing chairs
and other suitable furniture. It would be necessary also to employ
a competent attendant who should receive visitors, dispense documents, and answer inquiries.
The Committee estimates that the expense of preparing, transporting, setting up, and caring for such an exhibit during the Fair
would approximate the sum of twenty-five hundred dollars.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
ISAAC N. DEMMON.
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT.
CHARLES S. DENISON.
CARLI HUBER.
EDWARD D. JONES.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.


243


On motion the report was referred to Regents Hill and
Carey for consideration.
Librarian Davis presented and read his annual report of
the present condition of the Library, and the use made of it
during the year ending June 30, I903. The report is as
follows:
LIBRARIAN'S REPORT FOR THE YEAR I902-I903.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-I have the honor to submit to you my
twenty-sixth annual report as librarian of the University.
There were in all of the libraries June 30, 1903, 174,740
volumes and 3,300 pamphlets.*
Of these, I39,002 volumes and 3,000 pamphlets were in
the General Library; 20,170 volumes were in the Law
Library; I2,62I volumes and 230 pamphlets were in the
Medical Library; 1,183 volumes were in the Dental Library;
and 1,764 volumes and 70 pamphlets were in the Library of
the Homceopathic College.
The total additions for the year were 8,053 volumes and
i,800 pamphlets, distributed as follows:  General Library,
6,660 volumes and 1,750 pamphlets; Law Library, 543 volumes; Medical Library, 560 volumes and 30 pamphlets;
Dental Library, 63 volumes'; and the Homoeopathic Library,
227 volumes and 20 pamphlets.
The number of periodicals regularly received was I,070.
Of these 780 came to the General Library; 20 to the Law
Library; 220 to the Medical Library; I6 to the Dental
Library, and 34 to the Homceopathic Library.
Your appropriation for the purchase of books for the
year, including subscriptions to periodicals and the mainten*One thousand, seven hundred and fifty-one (1,751) volumes,
produced by binding the 5,000 pamphlets of the Parsons Library,
are included in the above number. It is at the same time exclusive
of the lost and worn out books of the year, and of the collection
of duplicates for reference work, numbering 1,456 volumes. The
rearrangement of the maps has not yet progressed far enough to
make an accurate report of them possible.




244


OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.


ance of the bindery, was $I5,000.00. This sum you divided
among the several libraries as follows:
General Library................$......,000 oo
Law   Library..........................................  2,475 00
M edical  Library......................................  2,025  oo
Dental Library................                      250 oo
Homeeopathic  Library..................................  250  oo
Total............................................. $I5,000  oo
THE GENERAL IIBRARY.
REPAIRS AND IMPROVEEENTS. The wooden floors of the
Reading Room, the halls, and the offices, which had become
loose and decayed, were replaced at the close of the summer
school by a Venetian Mosaic floor. This in the matter of
appearance is very satisfactory, and it has proved less noisy
to the tread than had been anticipated. For some reason,
however, it has not worn well and in places has cracked badly.
It is hoped that these faults may be remedied in a large
degree by repairs to be made during the summer.
At the same time the old desks and fixed chairs of the
Reading Room were replaced by tables and movable chairs.
This change brought the seating capacity up from 210 to 300.
An additional toilet room was secured on the east side
by a rearrangement of the space occupied by the cloak and
toilet rooms used by the ladies. The East Room, which
had been devoted to a number of uses, such as the shelving
of bound volumes of newspapers and the Patent Office
Reports, the storing of duplicate matter, etc., was, the larger
part of it, given up to the Faculty as a reading room. The
other part, about one-quarter of the whole, was retained as
a convenient place for keeping the most used of the bound
newspapers, and for a work room for the reception of periodicals and their preparation for use. The small room on the
west side of the delivery desk, known as the Dictionary
Room, was removed, its value as a separate room not justifying its existence. The space thus gained will enable us to
extend the public catalogue of authors, something of which
we already feel the need.




OCTOBER MEETING, i903.


245


Changes were made in the desk at which books are delivered and to which they have been returned, by which it was
divided into two parts somewhat removed from each otherone for the delivery of books and one to which they were to
be returned. Of all the changes made, however, that which
has given the most satisfaction is the introduction of the
new system of ventilation for the Reading Room, the offices
and the Seminary Rooms.     Heretofore there has been no
ventilation at all except such as could be secured by raising
windows. The experience of the year has proved all of the
changes to be decided improvements.
ADDITIONS.-Of the 6,66o volumes and 1,750 pamphlets
added to the General Library, 4,196 volumes were purchased,
1,943 volumes and 1,750 pamphlets were gifts and 521 volumes were the result of binding periodicals.
EXPENDITURES.-The bills certified to by me for this
library, exclusive of those incurred for the bindery and those
drawn on the endowment funds, and the contingent fund,
amounted to $7,411.55. Of this sum     $5,857.94 was for
books and periodical publications issued irregularly, and
$I,553.61 was for annual subscriptions to periodicals for the
year I903.
For miscellaneous expenses for the year you assigned to
the Library the sum of $702.75.
The expenditures were as follows:
Day  attendant  in  Cloak  Room.......................... 7  50
Evening attendant in Cloak Room......................... 65 oo
One Smith  Premier Typewriter............................  go  oo
One  Densmore  Typewriter................................  77 75
Stationery and postage...................................  24 58
Sundries, as catalogue cards, readers' slips, etc........... 95 28
*Total..................................$7. Ii 


*This sum is described above as money used entirely for the
General Library. It should be said that it was drawn upon also for
the miscellaneous expenses of the Medical, Dental, and Homceopathic Libraries.




246


OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.


This account was therefore overdrawn $7.36.
The expenditures from the endowment funds were as
follows:
Expended of the income of the Ford-Messer Fund......$1,276 32
Expended of the income of the Coyl Fund................ 326 89
The income of the Goethe Fund was untouched. As
explained in my last report, none of the income of this fund
will be used until by contributions and added interest it shall
amount to $300.00.
According to the Treasurer's books the condition of the
three above funds July I, I903, was as follows:
Ford-Messer Fund ($20,000), with unexpended interest
added............................................$22,834  15
Coyl Fund ($o0,000), with unexpended interest added... 12,085 63
Goethe  Fund.........................................  212  33
There have been, and still are, in the hands of the
Treasurer certain sums of money given by friends of the
University for the purchase of books and material for the
library. I have not reported these sums as funds, inasmuch
as they have been, or are to be, expended entirely. It has
seemed better to report the purchases made with the money
as gifts from those supplying it.
THE SHAKESPEARE AND GOETHE COLLECTIONS.-The
death of Senator James McMillan, to whose generosity the
University owes the greater part of the Shakespeare collection, was an event of a grievous nature. Inexpensive books
were purchased for it from the library funds. When, however, anything of a costly nature that we desired came to sale,
or a number of small things, making a large aggregate,
Senator McMillan was appealed to, and never, to my knowledge, in vain.  This resource and the industry of Professor
Demmon in the examination of sale catalogues of books and
of current bibliography, have made the University the possessor of the most extensive collection of Shakespeare literature in the West, if not in the whole country. It is a cause
of great gratification that Mr. W. C. McMillan has begun
to follow in the footsteps of his father in this matter.




OCIOBER HMEETING, 1903.


247


The additions of the year to this collection were I8I volumes. It now numbers 5,263 volumes.
The additions to the Goethe library were 13 volumes.
The cost of these was borne by the regular appropriation for
German literature. The collection now numbers I,037 volumes.
IMPORTANT PURCHASES.-It is the case, as stated in my
last report, that the greater number of our important purchases are made from    the income of the Ford-Messer and
Coyl funds. There has come to be such a minute division
of the regular library appropriation into portions to be used
in the purchase of special books that the purchase of any
costly set from it is impossible, unless there is a combination
of departments for the purpose, and that is something that
rarely occurs.
The more important purchases for the year have been as
follows:
Bought with the income of the Ford-Messer Fund:
I. Roman Academy (R. Accademia 'dei Lincei) complete
set of publications................................. $75 62
2. Turin Academy (R. Accademia delle scienze de Turino)
complete set of publications......................... 719 65
3. Journal of Society of Arts, Iondon, 50 volumes......... 200 oo
4. American Museum of Natural History, complete set of
publications.................................. 0.....  I04  25
5. Anglo Saxon Review, Io volumes...................... 25 oo
6. Babylonian Talmud (Trans. into English) vols. i-i6... 30 00
Bought with the income of the Coyl Fund:
7. Acta Sanctorum, 65 vols.............................  480 oo
8. Selden Society Publications, I5 vols.................... 70 87
9. Surrey Archaeological Society Collections, I6 vols.....  48 75
lo. Archaeologia (London), vols. 55-57, Pt. 2.............. 47 50
TI. The World's Best Essays, edited by Justice Brewer..... 40 oo
Bought from the General Fund:
12. Palaeontographical Society Publications, vols. 3I-55..... 87 50
13. Schreiber, W. L.-Manuel de 1'Amateur de la Gravure
sur Bois et sur Mdtal au XV Sidcle, 8 vols........... 21 87
14. Chatelain-Palaeographic des Classiques Latins, vol. 2.. i8 90
GIFTS.-The gifts of the year were less in number than
those of last year by nearly a thousand volumes. To no




248


OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.


small extent those received were from persons, or associations, whose names have already appeared in these reports as
benefactors of the Library. It is proper that I should enumerate a few of the more important of these gifts.
The Macmillan Co., publishers of New York, gave at the
suggestion of Professor Scott, 330 volumes of their publications which they valued at $260.00.
Mr. W. C. McMillan, of Detroit, son of Senator McMillan, as a result of a communication from Professor Demmon,
sent a check for $1oo0oo to be used in making additions to
the McMillan Shakespeare Library.
Continuing his benefactions, the Duke of Loubat sent the
following:
I. Codlex Vaticanus No. 3773. fine altmexikanische Bilderschrift Vatekanische Bibliothek. Ed. Eduard Seler, 2 parts.
2. Congres International des Americanistes XIIe Session.
3. Gesammelte Abhandlungen zur Amerikanischen Sprach-und
Alterthumskunde. Von Eduard Seler. Bd. I.
Certain publications of the French government have continued to come.  Of these there were received during the
year the following:
I. Collection de Documents inedits sur Flhistoire de France, 2
v oi0.
2. Inventaire general des richesses d' Art de la France, 3 vols.
A copy of the Journal fur Gasbeleuchtung was generously
contributed by the Michigan Gas Association. Vols. I-43,
with two volumes of Indexes, were bought at a cost of $93.50.
It has since been taken at the expense of the Association at
an annual subscription of $5.37.
From the Institution of Civil Engineers (London) we
received vols. 146, I47, 148, I49, I50 and 151, 6 vols. of
Proceedings. This is supplied regularly by the Institution.
Continuing  his gifts Mr. William     Viennot, of the
National Library of France, sent the following:
I. Vols. 10, II, T2 and 13 of Catalogue general des livres
imprimes de la bibliotheque nationale. Auteurs.
2. Three (3) volumes relating to Dante.
3. Bibliographie des Travaux de M. Leopold Delisle.
4. Photograph of Deslile.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.


249


Twenty-six (26) pamphlets on legal and historical subjects were received from their author, Dr. Vladimir Pappafava, Advocate, of Zara, Austria.
Dr. H. S. Jewett of the class of '68, who gave us 19
volumes last year, this year gave 29 volumes of miscellaneous
books.
Col. Cornelius Cadle, Recording Secretary of the Society
of the Army of the Tennessee, gave a set of the Reports of
the Society from the beginning, except the 28th, in 15 volumes. This is a very valuable addition to our Americana.
Thomas W. Lawson, Esq., gave a copy of "The Lawson
History of the America's Cup." This is a beautifully illustrated volume.
Mr. H. M. Utley, Librarian of the Detroit Public Library,
sent to the library on behalf of the compiler, Jas. Taylor
Aulls, a volume entitled "Catalogues and Addresses," University of Michigan. Mr. Aulls, of the class of '6I, inscribes
this to the University of Michigan for the class of '6I. The
volume was loaned to Mr. Utley for use in preparing the
history of this class.  It contains besides catalogues and
addresses, programmes of various kinds, class songs, Palladiums, etc.
There was received from Mrs. Washington A. Roebling
of Trenton, N. J., a copy of a book entitled "The Journal of
the Reverend Silas Constant," Pastor of the Presbyterian
Church at Yorktown, N. Y., with some of the Records of the
Church and a list of his marriages, 1784-1825; together
with notes on the Nelson, Van Cortlandt, Warren, and some
other families mentioned in the Journal. By Emily Warren
Roebling. This copy was No. I54 of an edition of 300. It
is a book having a considerable historical importance.
Rev. John D. Parker of the class of '59 contributed a copy
of the second edition of his work entitled "The Sabbath
Transferred."
James E. Scripps, Esq., publisher of the Evening Neuws
(Detroit), has continued to supply us with a copy of that
paper for preservation.
Professor Mechem, before his departure for Chicago, presented to the Library 50 volumes of miscellaneous books and




250


OCTOBER MEETING, Q903.


a large number of pamphlets and odd numbers of periodicals.
Some of these were duplicates, but there were many things
that proved to be valuable additions.
Mr. V. E. Francois, formerly an instructor in the University, gave 15 volumes consisting of works on literary
history, and classical texts.
Forty-eight (48) volumes of new books of a miscellaneous character were presented by Professor A. C. McLaughlin.
President Angell, who has every year contributed generously to our resources, has this year put us under greater
obligations than on any former occasion.
Gifts have also been received from Professors Demmon,
Hempl, Kelsey, Greene, Adams, Stanley and Ziwet; also
from Dr. Cross, Mr. Severance, Mr. Hollands and many
others.
There have also been the usual documents from the
National, State and city governments, and from many societies and business associations whose publications are found
useful in the work of the University.
I desire at this point to supply an omission from the
report of last year. In that report the gift of a copy of
Konrad Gessner's Thierbuch and Tischbuchl, from  Miss
Sarah Dorsey Parsons, of Marshall, Mich., appears as
from Miss Sarah Dorsey. I regret very much the occurrence of this omission.
USE OF THE LIBRARY.-During the College year the
Library is open continuously I4'2 hours daily-that is, from
7:45 A. M. until Io P,. M. The only holidays are Thanksgiving day, Christmas and New Years, and in the summer
the Fourth of July. From Commencement Day until the
close of the Summer School it is open from 8 A. M. until 5
P. M., and from the close of the Summer School until work
is resumed in the autumn, from 9 A. M. to 12 M., and from
2 to 5 P. M.
The following statistics are drawn from the report of
Mr. Finney, the assistant in charge of circulation:




OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.


251


Recorded circulation in Reading Room and Seminary
Rooms....................................... I57,37I vols.
Drawn for home use by Professors................... 11,232 vols.
168,603 vols.
This is but a slight increase over the recorded circulation
of last year. That the increase was not greater is due to the
interruption of reading in the Reading Room while the new
floor was going down.
It is desirable to state here, as I have done in former
reports, that this recorded use is only about one-half of the
whole use of the Library.
The inter-library loans amounted to 55 volumes and 30
photographs. The daily average of readers in the Reading
Room was I80. The highest number reported by Mr. Finney
as present in the room at one time was 275. This is 65 more
than the seating capacity of the room heretofore and lacks
only 25 of exhausting the new seating.
Under the rule admitting advanced students to the book
room for a period of two months, 75 were admitted. As the
number to be admitted at one time is I5, this was the full
number entitled to the privilege for the year. Numerous
temporary admissions were granted.
During the two semesters, 350 students were admitted
to the Seminary Rooms, as follows: IIo to the East Room
for the study of History, Political Economy, Pedagogy,
Philosophy, and Mathematics; 240 to the West Room for
the study of Language, Literature, and Art.
CONDITION OF THE LIBRARY.-Attention was given, as
usual, to the condition of individual books and to the collection as a whole. To keep the Library in good condition as
to the accessibility of books, grows more difficult each year
on account of lack of room. It is always difficult to preserve
the classification of a library in which there are already many
books and to which the annual additions are numerous. Not
to preserve the classification is to handicap readers in their
use of the books. We shall continue to do the best we can
under the circumstances, and trust you will find it possible
to increase our facilities in the near future.




252


OCTOBER MEETING, i903.


Mr. Finney -reports a larger number of books missing at
the end of the year than has been reported for any previous
year-44 volumes. Experience teaches us that some of these
will be found.  Of the 21 volumes reported missing last
year four (4) have been found. A book misplaced is practically a book lost, and as a large number of persons have
access to the shelves, misplacements cannot be avoided. Mr.
Finney reports two examinations of the shelves during the
year, resulting in the discovery of I,029 volumes out of place.
Fourteen volumes, chiefly reference books, have been
entirely worn out and have been retired from use.
Mr. Severance, the general assistant, made his second
annual inspection of the outlying libraries. The condition of
some of these remains unsatisfactory. If, after efforts that
we are now making, conditions are not improved it shall be
for you to consider whether the existence of these particular
collections of which no care is taken shall not be ended.
THE WORK OF THE YEAR.-We entered upon the year
with the intention-and the expectation, also-of accomplishing three important pieces of work in addition to the
routine work of the Library. These were:
I. The improvement of the official catalogue.
2. An improved arrangement of the current numbers of
periodicals.
3. An arrangement of the maps.
The first two were in a great degree accomplished. The
third, the arrangement of the maps, was not accomplished.
By correspondence with libraries that have large map collections we learned of the methods of caring for these in
vogue in each of them, and were able to devise a satisfactory
scheme for recording and cataloging our own. Preparations
for carrying out the scheme were made by printing the necessary headings on sheets and binding them. We were, however, unable to begin the work as the necessary drawers were
not made by the carpenter.
We were, however, able to accomplish a piece of work
that we had not planned to do. This was the reclassification
and recataloging of the Parsons Library and the making of




OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.


253


some changes in its status. This collection was received in
i869, and was reported by Professor Ten Brook, who was
then librarian, to consist of 4,325 volumes and 5,o00 pamphlets. The volumes were almost entirely in paper covers. At
Professor Ten Brook's request some of these volumes were
bound at Mr. Parsons' expense, but for reasons with which
I am not acquainted this was not carried far. I thought it
desirable on many accounts to bind all of the remainder that
promised to be of service, and in all ways to make the use
of the collection as convenient as possible. Following the
example already set in dealing with pamphlets in general,
such as were of sufficient importance were bound singly and
the remainder were classified and bound in volumes. As this
library now stands it consists of 6,076 volumes and no
pam',iphlets.
Some of the matter was of such a nature that Professor
Ten Brook was unable to determine whether it was really a
part of the collection or waste matter put in the boxes to
improve the packing. To be on the safe side he preserved it
all. This doubtful matter we classified roughly and tied up
in bundles, placing it where it can be examined by any one
who cares to do so.
This Awork on the Parsons library was almost entirely
performed by Mr. Severance, assisted by Miss Lane. There
was much in the nature of the matter to perplex and much
in its condition that made the handling of it unpleasant. I
wish to commend their performance of the work.
THEI-  LIBRARY FORCE FOR 1903-'04.-The office force
remains the same as last year. MIr. J. F. Halliday has charge
of the East Seminary Room and M\r. G. L. Wait of the West.
Appointees to the Return Desk are G. WV. Barnum, W. D.
Moriarty and T. E. AVagner. These serve five hours daily,
each. The Delivery Desk attendants are twelve in number,
each one serving two and one-half hours daily. Formerly
each attendant at this desk served five hours daily.  So
decided a preference has been shown for the shorter service,
however, and so well has it worked that we have adopted it.
The total amount paid for the service is not changed. The




254


OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.


names of the twelve are as follows: H. E. Olson, C. E.
Parry, V. L. Minor, J. H. McCandless, H. K. Stone, G. F.
Blanchard, F. D. Koelbel, B. H. De Priest, I. W. Long, E.
J. Creighton, H. P. Farnham, L. F. Cleveland.
THE WORK FOR I903-'04.-There remains the work on
the maps to which reference has been made. This will be
taken up as soon as the necessary drawers are made. Beyond
this nothing is planned except what might be called the general improvement of the Library.
THE NEEDS OF THE LIBRARY.-In my report last year I
called attention to the new courses of instruction established
by you in recent years as they affect the Library. I specified
the five new courses which had been established within three
years, viz.: Administrative Law, Naval Architecture, Higher
Commercial Education, Forestry, and Insurance.  I referred
to the fact that the Library contained but little on these subjects and that there was an immediate demand oh the part of
the instructors for books and periodicals. In the last year
a new department, Chemical Engineering, has been created,
and Rhetoric has been detached from the department of
English and made a separate Chair. According to the policy
of the Library Committee in regard to the distribution of
the Library funds, appropriations for special books have, in
compliance with requests from Professors Scott and Campbell, been made for these two departments.  It has been
necessary to provide for all of these special needs from a
reserve regularly kept for bibliographical books, and books
of general interest, and for securing at advantageous prices
at the auction sales and from antiquarian book catalogues,
rare and out of print books. These drafts upon this reserve
for general purposes have so depleted it that little remains.
If the appropriation made by you for the purchase of
books cannot be increased I think it would be wise.when
instruction in a new subject is authorized, to couple with the
authorization a sum of money sufficient to start it in books
and periodicals. The instructor should be able to tell what
sum would be necessary for the purpose.




OCTOBER AJEETIAG, 90o3.


255


I am constrained to speak again of the great desirabilityperhaps 1 ought to say necessity-of more room for the
storage of books, and for connecting more intimately the
Library and the work of instruction. In visiting one large,
new public library (Providence, R. I.) this summer and in
reading of others just completed, or in process of.erection,
I have been impressed by the revolution that has taken place
in libraries of this character.  They have connected the
library and the elementary schools in such a manner that the
children in the lower grades have greater facilities for the
seminary methods of instruction than do our graduate students.
I have not in any report failed, I think, to represent the
importance of the Library in the work of the University.
You may have regarded this as simply perfunctory, or as a
somewhat natural attempt on my part to magnify the importance of the work with which I am connected. This has not
been so in the past, and it is less likely to be so now that the
time approaches when I must lay down the work, and when
I perfectly understand that there cannot come to me either
credit or emolument for any library expansion that the
future may hold.
DUPLICATES FOR CLASS USE.-You will recall that at your
October meeting you voted $200.00 to each of the following
departments for the purchase of duplicates to be used in the
instruction-to the departments of General History, American History, and Political Economy. There were already
in use a number of duplicates of historical books which had
been purchased with money contributed by the classes needing the books. All of these books-those bought with student
contributions and those bought with money specifically appropriated by you, number 1,495 volumes. They are handled
as other books of the Library are, but they are entered upon
a separate accession book and it is understood that they are
to serve as nuclei of departmental libraries whenever the
departments have the necessary accommodation for them.




256


OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.


THE OTHER LIBRARIES.
THE MEDICAL LIBRARY. The additions to the Medical
Library were 560 volumes and 30 pamphlets. Of these 285
volumes were purchased, 52 volumes and 30 pamphlets were
presented, and 223 volumes were the result of binding periodicals.
The total of bills certified to by me for this library was
$1,364.9I. Of this sum $880.06 were for books and irregular
periodical publications and $484.85 was for subscriptions to
periodicals for I903.*
Gifts were received from Doctors Vaughan and Dock
and others. From Dr. Abraham Jacobi, of New York, was
received a copy of the third edition (1903) of his "The
Therapeutics of Infancy and Childhood."
Of the $I30.96, balance remaining of the appropriation of
$1,000.00 from the Bates Professorship Fund, made June,
I901, $1OI.86 fell due and was paid.
THE LAW LIBRARY.-I quote as follows from the report
of Professor V. H. Lane, Law Librarian:
"The total number of volumes accessioned and unaccessioned is 20,I70, and of this number 17,843 are in daily use
by the students.
"All books, with the exception of texts and encyclopedias,
are on open shelving easily accessible to those desiring them.
The texts and encyclopedias are drawn from the delivery
desk which is in charge of an assistant who gives all necessary
aid to those using the library. The card catalogue which
was commenced one year ago last May is being steadily
enlarged and will in time greatly increase the working facilities of the library.
"Two assistants, Miss Gertrude Elstner Woodard and
Mr. Clarence N. Boord, have immediate charge of the library,
working under the direction of the Librarian.


*Of the above sum of $1,364.9I a part, $98.26, was loaned from
the appropriation for the Dental Library.  The students of the
Dental College have frequent occasion to make use of the books
of the Medical Library.




OCTOBER MEETING, z903.


257


"During the summer the walls of the library, consultation and faculty reading rooms, have been painted, decidedly
improving their appearance.
"There have been recently presented to the library several
etchings of prominent jurists and lawyers, five by the law
class of 1898, five by the Honorable James B. Dill, of New
York, and one by Mr. W. H. Bond, of the class of I90o. The
class of I903 presented to the library a portrait in oil of Professor Bogle, by Percy Ives.
"While we shall be able to get through the coming year
without any substantial additions to the shelf room, it seems
quite apparent that additional accommodations will be needed
in the near future."
THE DENTAL LIBRARY.-The additions to this library
were 63 volumes, of which 41 volumes were bought, two
were presented and 20 the result of binding periodicals. The
bills certified to by me for Dental literature purely amounted
to $84.39. There was in addition to this a draft upon the
Dental appropriation of $98.26 for medical literature, as
already reported.
A gift of great interest and value to the University was
received from Dr. Walter H. Jackson of Ann Arbor, a student
and an instructor in the Dental College i'n its beginning. The
gift was "A Compilation of Historical Data, referring to
the Dental Department of the University of Michigan from
the earliest conception of a desire to have said department
established.  Together with such oral handings down as
seem to have foundation in truth, down to reports of June,
1902, inclusive. By Walter H. Jackson, D. D. S."
THE HOMOEOPATHIC LIBRARY.-The additions to this
library were 227 volumes and 20 pamphlets. Of these 198
volumes were bought, 22 volumes and 20 pamphlets were
presented and 7 volumes were the result of binding periodicals.
The total of bills certified to by me was $176.75. Of this
$170.75 was for books, and $6.oo for periodicals for the
year I903.




258


OCTOBER MEETING, i903.


THE BINDERY.
The entire cost of maintaining the bindery for the year
was $2,745.09.
The expenditure for labor was........................$2,304 IO
The  expenditure  for  materials  was......................  440  99
$2,745 09
As heretofore I append tables showing the nature of the
work done, the cost of it at the ruling prices for such work,
and its distribution by departments. What I have called
the ruling prices are the average prices for' different materials, paid on contract by twenty colleges and public libraries
in different parts of the country. The prices paid at these
libraries were ascertained by correspondence with them.


Statement of Bindingf Jdyl, I902-June, i9g3.
SUMMARY           NO. OF    ESTIMATED EXPENSE
PIECES     EXPENSE   PER VOL.
Bound and rebound, leather......   1,448     $1,9I4 27    $I 32
Bound and rebound, cloth........   1,813,053 60       58
Repaired, resewed, etc.,..........    893        157 65
Maps, charts, etc.................   I40         27  90
Labels and bookplates............    846          2 12
Covers, cases, etc................     19          6 65
Special work.....................     99         72  73
Work for printing plant..........                64 55
Total....................            $3,299 47
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _.1  _ _ _ _~~~~~~~




OCTOBER MEETING, 90o3.
Distribution by Departments.


259


GY NO. OF  ESTIMATED  PER CENT.  SHARE OF
GENERAL    IBRARY       PIECES  EXPENSE       OF      ACTUAL
PIECES   EXPENSE
EXPENSE     COST
Bound and rebound, leather    968  $1,309 75
Bound and rebound, cloth.. 1,597      924 81
Repaired, resewed, etc......  784     119 30
Maps, charts, etc...........  I33     25 I5
Labels and book plates.....   846       2 12
Covers, cases, etc...........  19       6 65
Special work.............     99      72 73
Work for printing plant....            64 55
Total.............       $2,525 o6     76.73    2,106 31
MEDICAL LIBRARY
Bound and rebound, leather    203     264 72
Bound and rebound, cloth..     82      88 26
Repaired, resewed, etc.....    3         45
Total..............           354 43    io.65      292 35
LAW LIBRARY
Bound and rebound, leather    242     314 50
Bound and rebound, cloth..      I         75
Repaired, resewed, etc......  I04      36 20
Total..............           351 45    Io.56      289 88
DENTAL LIBRARY
Bound and rebound, leather     16      16 73
Bound and rebound, cloth..      7       5 84
Total.............22 57                  1.38      i8 67
HOMOEOPATHIC LIBRARY
Bound and rebound, leather      6       8 57
Bound and rebound, cloth..     42      33 94
Repaired, resewed, etc.....     2         70
Maps, charts, etc...........    7       2 75
Total                          45 96    oo.68       37 88
Grand Total.......                    100.00   $2,745 09




260           OCTOBER MEETING,           90o3.
By reference to the first table it will be seen that the cost
of the work at prices charged generally by binderies, was
$3,299.47. Comparing this with the cost of labor and materials for the year, which was $2,745.09, there appears a balance
in favor of the bindery of $554.38. To this should be added
$29.58 for waste gold recovered, making a total in favor of
the library of $583.96.
Hitherto in estimating the cost of the work at outside
binderies the figures were based on prices ruling in 1896,
when the bindery was established. If the advance of these
from year to year had been ascertained and taken into consideration the balances for recent years would have been
greater than reported.
On the basis of the percentages shown in the second table
the expense to be borne by each of the libraries is as follows:
General Library............................$2,6 3
Medical Library....................................  292 35
Law Library......................................   289 88
Dental Library.......................................  8 67
Homceopathic Library...............................  37 88
T otal............................................$2,745  09
The following is a list of the persons now employed in the
bindery, exclusive of Mr. Hollands:
George  Dengler................................  $700  per  year
Lydia Schleyer................................ $28 oo per month
George Roth........................ $20 00 per month
Frances Pattison................................  50c per day
The pay of these is charged to the book appropriation of
$ 5.000o00.
Mr. Hollands, in charge of the bindery, whose pay has
hitherto been drawn from that source, is now paid from the
current expense fund. The establishment of a printing press
in connection with the bindery, of which press he also has
charge, altered the conditions existing before as far as he
was concerned. Very justly there was at the same time an
increase of his salary.




OCTOBER MEETIVNG, 1903.


261


The single addition to the equipment of the bindery was
a sewing machine at a cost of $I40.00.
In concluding my report I wish to renew the recommendation made in my annual budget last spring for an
increase of pay for the three chief assistants in the library.
Mr. Jordan, Mr. Finney and Mr. Severance. It was not
found possible to make such an increase when the budget
was before you, but conditions change. I should much regret
if through fault of mine these men were overlooked in any
new consideration of salaries.
Very respectfully submitted,
RAYMOND C. DAVIS,
Librarian.
Oct. 14, 1903.
THE PRINTING PLANT.
To the Librarian:
DEAR SIR:-The following report of the Printing Plant
in the General Library, established in January, I903, under
your direction, is submitted for the period ending June 30,
1903:
Of your appropriation of $940.0o for plant, $938.91 has
been expended. The equipment consists of a 13xI9 Universal press with a one-half horse power Browning motor, 3I
fonts of type in two cabinets of 41 cases, proof.press, imposing stone, perforator, wire stitcher, lead and rule cutter, stock
cases, etc.
The equipment is adequate for nearly all the small work
of the University, but six months experience has shown
that an occasional order is received requiring a greater quantity of some special sorts than has been purchased for the
plant.
Of the $200.00 appropriated for stock $198.66 has been
expended and the stock will nearly always approximate this
amount.
As the basis for charging work to the several departments,
60% of the price list compiled by D. Ramaley, and used by
the Typothetae, is used. This list is made on a 33/3%  profit
basis, and the 40%  discount was deemed a fair reduction
for comparative uses.




262


OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.


The plant has filled i8I orders, which at the above named
charging prices amount to $696.66.
During the same period $246.22 have been paid for
wages, and $I50.67 for stock, exclusive of the $200.00 appropriated by you for that purpose. Nearly the whole amount
of wages has been paid to three students, two in the Law
Department and one in the Literary. For the coming year
five students will be employed, an average of 12 hours per
week each, on a time schedule which allows one man at
nearly all hours in the office. Two of these are from the
Law, two from the Literary, and one from the Engineering
Department.
In addition there are registered two Law, one Dental and
one Mledical student, who can be called upon for special
occasions.
The efficiency of the plant could be increased by a small
outlay from time to time as work calling for special additional
equipment is encountered, the expense of such special sorts
to be charged to the order requiring it.
Very respectfully,
W. C. HOLLANDS.
Oct. 14, I903.,
Regent Hill moved that the report be accepted and
printed in the minutes, and that 500 extra copies be furnished
the Librarian for distribution. It was so ordered.
On motion of Regent Barbour, it was voted to place 29
yards of rubber matting in the reading room of the General
Library at a cost not exceeding $35.
On motion of Regent Hill, $200 was appropriated for the
purchase of duplicate books for the department of English
by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Hill, the President was requested
to transmit the thanks of the Board for several flashlight
photographs of wild deer, taken by Mr. George Shiras, and
presented through the Hon. Peter White.
The President read the following report of the action of
the Executive Committee during the intermission of the
Board.




OCIOBER MEETING, 1903.


263


ANN ARBOR, Oct. I9, I903.
To the Board of Regents:
The Executive Committee beg leave to report that at the opening of the semester it became necessary to make certain appointments which had been authorized by you, as follows:
E. M. Bragg, B.S., instructor in Marine Engineering and Naval
Architecture for one year, at the salary of $900.
F. L. Dunlap, Sc.D., promoted to the senior instructorship in
Analytical Chemistry at the salary of $1,200 a year, to fill the vacancy
caused by the resignation of Dr. Sullivan.
Hobart H. Willard, A.B., assistant in Analytical Chemistry for
one year at the salary of $700 a year.
JAMES B. ANGELL.
ROGER W. BUTTERFIELD.
Professor Kelsey gave notice that Mr. Theodore D.
Buhl had contributed the sum of $500 for a Classical Fellowship for the year I9o3-'04, and that the classical staff desired
to divide this Fellowship between Mr. Henry H. Armstrong
and Robert E. English.   On motion the President was requested to transmit the cordial thanks of the Board to Mr.
Buhl for his generous gift to this University, and that the
selection of the holders of this Fellowship by the classical staff
is hereby confirmed.
Professor Kelsey gave notice that Mr. Frederick Stearns,
of Detroit, had renewed, for the year 19o3-'04, the Stearns
Fellowship in Music, which has again been awarded to Mr.
Philip Louis Schenk. On motion of Regent Hill, the President was requested to return to Mr. Stearns the sincere thanks
of the Board for this evidence of continued interest in this
University. The appointment of Mr. Schenk as the holder of
this Fellowship was confirmed by the Board.
The President stated that the following persons should be
reappointed for one year, and on motion of Regent Hill the
appointments were made by the full vote of the Board:
Samuel J. Holmes, Ph.D., Instructor in Zoology, salary,
$1,200, for one year only; Raymond Pearl, Ph.D., Instructor
in Zoology, salary, $1,200, for one year only; Charles A.
Davis, A.M., Instructor in Forestry, salary, $200; Henry
O. Severance, A.M., Assistant in General Library, salary,
$900; Floyd E. Westfall, M.D., Assistant to the Chair of




264


OCTOBER MEETING, o903.


Theory and Practice of Medicine in the Homceopathic Medical College, without salary; Eugene S. Gilmore, Superintendent of University Hospital, salary $I,500; Russell E.
Atchison, M.D., Superintendent of Homceopathic Hospital,
salary, $800; Bertha S. Stuart, Assistant in Barbour Gymnasium, salary, $450; George F. Richmond, M.S., Assistant
in Physiological Chemistry, salary, $6oo00; Merlin L. Wiley,
A.B., Assistant in Elocution, salary, $500.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the purchase of a new
cutting machine for the bindery was referred to the Auditing
Board, with power, by full vote of Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the President was asked
to convey the thanks of the Board to Hon. David Heineman,
of Detroit, for fine photograhic pictures, both of the exterior
and the interior of the old church at Stratford, England,
where Shakespeare is buried.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the Library Committee
of the Board were requested to consider the practicability of
securing additional seminary rooms in the Library building,
with cost of same.
Regent Lawton moved that the sum of $225 be added to,
the budget for the department of Forestry for the present
academic year. The motion was carried on a call vote.
Professor J. O. Reed, chairman of the Summer School
Committee, presented and read the following report of the
work of the school during the last session.
ANN ARBOR, MlICH., Oct. I4, I903.
To the President and Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLLEMENS-I have the honor to present herewith my report
upon the work of the tenth annual Summer Session of the University.
The session opened in the Department of Literature, Science, and
the Arts on July I and closed August 14. In the Department of Law
work began June 22 and ended August 14. In the Department of
Medicine and Surgery the session extended from June 22 to August 7,
while in the Department of Engineering the required work for the
summer extended from June 22 to July 31.




OCTOBER MEETING, I903.                     265
The enrollment in the various departments was as follows:
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 382
Departm ent  of  Law...........................................  74
Department of Medicine and Surgery........................ 68
Department of Engineering................................... I07
Total  enrollment........................................  63 
Of the 382 students enrolled in the Department of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, the distribution by states is as follows:
Michigan, 213; Ohio, 36; Indiana, 29; Illinois, 24; New York,
I6; Pennsylvania, 13; Iowa, 7;. Missouri, 6; Kansas, 5; Minnesota, 4;
Maine, New Jersey, Wisconsin, Montana, California, Georgia, Kentucky, Washington, South Dakota, District of Columbia, and Ontario
each 2, and one each from Nebraska, Utah, Arkansas, Colorado, Massachusetts, Japan and the Philippine Islands.
Of the enrollment in this department 230 were new names and
152 were those of persons already enrolled in some department of
the University. Of the 230 new students, those actually engaged in
teaching numbered I79. The enrollment of teachers thus formed
43.2% of the total enrollment in the department, or 77.8% of those
in attendance in the University for the first time. Of those already
enrolled in the University, 102 were members of the Literary Department, 35 belonged in Engineering, 8 in Medicine, 6 in Law, and one
in Pharmacy. There were also in attendance two students from
Purdue, two from Cornell, and one from Vassar College.
Of the total enrollment in this department, I42, or 37.2%, were
graduates of Normal Schools, Colleges or Universities. Of these
40 were from this University, 34 from the Michigan State Normal
College, 7 from Albion, 6 from Olivet, 6 from the Indiana State
Normal, and the remaining 49 from institutions in various parts of
the United States.
In the Announcement of work in this department for the Summer
Session of 1903 there were offered o09 courses in 24 different branches,
distributed as follows:
Greek 5, Latin 9, French 3, Spanish I, Italian I, German 6, English Literature 2, Rhetoric and English Composition 3, Elocution and
Oratory 2, History 3, Philosophy 4, Pedagogy 4, Political Economy 2,
Mathematics Io, Physics 8, Chemistry II, Geology 2, Zoology 5,
Botany 5, Drawing 4, Physical Training 4, Shop Practice 7, Mechanical Engineering 6, Electrical Engineering I.
The instruction in the above courses was given by 47 men,
apportioned among the various subjects as follows:
Latin and Greek 4, French I, Italian and Spanish I, German 3,
English Literature I, Rhetoric and English Composition 2, Elocu



266            OCTOBER MEETING, o903.
tion I, History 2, Philosophy 2, Pedagogy 2, Political Economy I,
Mathematics 4, Physics 3, Chemistry 6, Geology I, Zoology 2, Botany 2, Drawing I, Physical Training I, Shop Practice 4, Mechanical
Engineering 2, Electrical Engineering I.
A study of the election blanks shows the following number of
electons in each subject, beginning with the highest. In this list
each election is rated upon the basis of two-hour credit; thus a
four-hour course is rated as two two-hour courses, and a six-hour
course as three two-hour courses.
Mathematics 103, Pedagogy 87, Chemistry 84, Physics 74, Philosophy 60, History 60, English Literature 59, Rhetoric and Composition 53, German 57, Latin 53, Engineering Shops 39, Political
Economy 39, Geology 38, French 36, Drawing 34, Elocution and
Oratory 31, Botany 28, Zoology 26, Mechanical Engineering 17, Electrical Engineering 7, Spanish 3, Italian 3.
FINANCIAL REPORT.
At their meeting in January, 900o, the Board of Regents appropriated $2,500.00, or such part thereof as should be necessary, to conduct the Summer Session in accordance with the recommendations
of the President and Faculty. This sum has been set aside each
subsequent year as a subsidy or sinking fund for the conduct of the
Summer Session.
RECEIPTS, AND EXPENDITURES.
Receipts.
Tuition:
380 students at $I5.00................................ $5,700 oo
2 students at $.oo.................................  20 00
Appropriation..........................................  2,500 oo0
Total receipts......................... $8,220 00
Expenditures.
Pay   roll................................................$7,570  00
Announcement...................I.....................    178 50
Printing circulars, postage, sundries.......................  75 55
Addressing and mailing of Announcements...............    Io 00
Advertising  in  periodicals...............................  I86  04
Librarian...............................................  25  oo
Janitor for lectures......................................  Io 00
Total expenditures.............................$8,o55 09
Balance................................   64  91
$8,220 00




OCTOBER MEETING, I903.                      267
An interesting feature of the Summer Session was the series of
open lectures by members of the University Faculty. The series this
year comprised lectures by President Angell, Professors Carhart,
Adams, Stanley, and Assistant Professors Cooley and VanTyne.
The attendance was most generous, and the interest and enthusiasm
of the student body was gratifying in the extreme. It is certainly
very desirable that those in attendance upon the Summer Session,
of whom so large a percentage are teachers, should have liberal
opportunity to hear and to meet prominent members of all the
University Faculties. In no way can the University influence be
more properly or effectively diffused among the people and schools
of Michigan and the surrounding States.
The work in the various classes during the Summer Session
is characterized by earnestness and zealous application, the large
proportion of the student body who either have been or are now
actively engaged in teaching renders the interest in the subjects
pursued more vital and real than that usually manifested in the
same subjects during the college year. It is the testimony of practically all the Professors engaged in Summer work that the class
of students found in the University during the Summer Session
leaves nothing to be desired on the score of interest and willingness
to work. While lack of sufficient preparation is notable in some
cases, yet in very few cases has insufficient preparation been found
accompanied by an indisposition to serious and strenuous effort.
The University offers great advantages to persons of limited opportunities in allowing them to enter the classes freely and derive
therefrom all the inspiration and benefit which they are capable
of receiving. In no way can the University more effectually gain
and retain a firm hold upon the schools of Michigan and of the
Middle West than by guarding and promoting the relations of
mutual helpfulness and mutual interest established during the Summer Session. Teachers from small or remote High Schools, with
vague ideas of the needs or the functions of a properly organized
secondary school and with insufficient preparation or with no preparation for the work they have been attempting to do, are awakened
and inspired to attempt things undreamed of before. No branch of
activity of this department reaches so far or takes hold so firmly
upon the schools and the people of the State as does the work of the
Summer Session. It bears something of the same relation to the
work of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, that
the University Hospital does to that of the Department of Medicine
and Surgery. It makes friends for the University, except in cases
of educational mal-practice, in every corner of the State, and transforms the lukewarm or indifferent school into an enthusiastic feeder
of the University.




268


OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.


The system of University inspection in maintenance of the
diploma relation is a very efficient means of promoting and maintaining the best relations between the schools and the University,
as it leads to better acquaintance and better understanding.  But
the work of the Summer Session goes farther. It begins where the
other leaves off. The inspector, be he ever so observant, can see
little beyond the surface indications as to the efficiency and workings of the school, although that is usually considerable, and be he
ever so eloquent he can only speak for the University while he
stands before the school. The teacher, however, who has become
acquainted with the workings of the University through attendance
upon the Summer Session, and has become imbued with the aims
and methods of University men, goes back to that school to stay,
and to talk University of Michigan during the entire year, to an
audience that is both familiar and easily influenced. If there were
no other reason for its existence, the Summer Session is worth
three times what it costs simply as a means of advertising the
University and of strengthening its hold upon the good will of the
people of the State.
Another feature of the work of the Summer Session that. is
deserving of attention is that of graduate study. In this respect
the showing of the University during the year is by no means as
strong as it should be. During the past collegiate year there were
enrolled 97 persons classified as graduates, and in June, 1902, there
were conferred 53 higher degrees-42 M.A., I Sc.D., and io Ph.D.
During the Summer Session there were 14 graduate students actu-.
ally doing work toward the Master's or Doctor's degree. During
the past Summer Session there were more bona fide graduate
students working for the Master's or Doctor's degree, in the Department of Physics, than were enrolled in the same department during
the collegiate year of I902-1903. It seems reasonably clear that one
of the best ways to build up graduate work in the University is
to offer better facilities and more encouragement to persons competent to undertake graduate work in the Summer Session. The
State has many teachers of collegiate or University training, who
are anxious to go further in their special lines of work, and who
would more of them enroll for higher degrees if suitable courses
were offered and proper provision were made for assigning and
arranging their work.
Many of us know that with the majority of men, post-graduate
study, like collegiate study itself, is largely a matter of getting
started; once the decision is made and the work begun, the rest
is easier. Whatever any one may think of the possibility of doing
graduate work during the summer, two facts are well assured;




OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.


269


first, that graduate work has been done, and is being done during
the summer, and second, that those departments that are really
anxious to have graduate work done, will find students in the Summer Session ready and competent to begin such work.
In the hope of gaining additional information upon important
phases of summer work in American Colleges and Universities,
it has been my pleasant task to collect a consderable body of
statistics pertaining to the work in the leading institutions in this
country. To this end, a circular letter containing numerous questions regarding the organization, attendance and management of
summer work, was sent to some thirty-five of the leading colleges
and universities of the United States. The results of these inquiries
are embodied in a table herewith submitted. (Omitted in printing.)
A glance at the table shows the following significant facts:
I. The majority of the Summer Sessions represented on the
table have been organized since 1890.
2. During the past summer there were over I2,ooo   students
engaged in summer work in the United States.
3. Professional schools are to be found in a large majority of
the institutions giving summer work.
4. The Universities Harvard, Columbia, Cornell, University of
California, have about one-fourth to one-fifth of their total enrollment in the Summer Session. In the case of Missouri and Chicago,
it is approximately one-half.
5. The larger Summer Sessions with the exception of Chicago,
which has special trains, all enjoy the advantages of reduced rates
from the railroads.
6. The acccepted length of term seems to be six weeks. Even
where two terms are attempted, the six-week term is made the unit.
With the knowledge and approval of the President, I have the
honor to submit the following suggestions for the betterment of the
Summer Session:
SUGGESTIONS FOR BETTERMENT OF SUMMER SESSION.
I. Establishment of some modus vivendi with the Departments
of Law, Medicine and Surgery, and of Engineering, so that there
may be some degree of uniformity in regard to date of opening,
tuition fees for students taking work in two departments, registration, etc.
2. That strenuous effort be made to secure for students of the
Summer Session the same concessions from the railroads as are
granted to the students of Harvard, Columbia, Cornell and the
University of Colifornia.




270


OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.


3. Establishment of a Biological Station at some suitable station
on the lakes of Michigan, for the study of Botany and Zoology and
for accommodation of persons desiring to do advanced work in
those lines.
4. Establishment of Courses in Library Training, in connection
with the University Library; the same to form part of the work
of the Summer Session.
5. Establishment of one or more Courses in Pharmacy, in the
Sum1mer Session.
6. That a more liberal policy be adopted as regards the printing
and distribution of the Announcements for the Summer Session
work, including the preparation of appropriate views of Ann Arbor,
lists of students, etc.
7. That the question of an advance in the salaries of men doing
work in the Summer Session be carefully considered, and if possible that some plan be adopted whereby those giving instruction in
Summer Session may be given the option between a salary for such
work and vacation during the regular semesters.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN 0. REED,
Chairman Summer Session.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the President was requested-to appoint a committee consisting of two members
of the Board and one member from       each of the Faculties
directly interested in the work of the Summer Session, which
committee shall consider all questions relating to said school,
with the view of devising some plan of building up and
enlarging the work, and report their conclusion to the Board.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the reports of the Treasurer and of the Auditor were referred to the Finance Committee for consideration, and with power to print.       The
report of the Treasurer is as follows:




OCTOBER MEETIA G, 1903.                             271
TREASURER'S REPORT.
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1903.
To the Finance Committee, Board of Regents, University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN: Herewith I submit my annual report for the fiscal year
ending June 30, I903.          Respectfully,       H. SOULE, Treasurer.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, 1902..............   $51,046 13
From State Treasurer, acct. /4 mill tax for General
Expenses.................................   315,620 00
From Accumulation of the 1/4 mill tax for Special
Expenses.................................  167,959  80
From State Treasurer, acct. Special Appropriations  37,000 oo
From State Treasurer, acct. University Interest....  39,255 23
From Earnings and Miscellaneous Sources........    278,016 2i $888,897 37
Disbursments.
Paid on account of General Expenses............  $668,072 35'
Paid on account of Accumulation of 1/4 mill tax....  156,437 20
Paid on account of Special Appropriations.........  31,063 46
Balance in Treasury June 30, I903...............    33,324 36  $888,897 37
GENERAL FUND.
RECEIPTS TO THE GENERAL FUND.
Balance in Treasury, July I, 1902..............    $60,896 97
From State Treasurer, acct. University Interest....  39,255 23
From State Treasurer, acct. /4 mill tax..........  315,620 00
From  Interest  on  Deposits....................... 1,124  41
From University Hospital Earnings..............    43,939 46
From Homceopathic Hospital Earnings...........     18,341 99
From Dental operating Rooms....................      6,362 03
From  Engineering  Shops.........................      383 
From General Library Duplicate Books Sold.....         49 34
From Miscellaneous Sources.....................     4,932 91
From Students' Fees:
Literary Department........... $55,280 00
Literary Dept., Summer School.     1,395 00
Engineering Department.......    27,365 00
Medical Department...........    18,255 00
Medical Dept., Summer School..     1,195 00
Law Department..............     41,785 00
Law Dept., Summer School.....,635 00
Dental Department............     5,260 00
Homoeopathic Medical Depart...     3,315 oo
Pharmacy Department.........      3,270 00
Chemical Laboratory...........   10,252 97
Anatomical Laboratory........     -,625 00
Hygienic Laboratory...........    2,130 00
Zoological Laboratory..........    452 oo
Botanical Laboratory..........     631 00
Physiological Laboratory.......    II 0oo
Pathological Laboratory........   I,6Io 00
Pharmacological Laboratory....     I50 oo
Histological Laboratory........,00o8 00
Engineering Laboratory........    3,670 00
Dental Laboratory............      381 oo
Waterman Gymnasium.........    2,855 oo
Barbour Gymnasium...........       600 oo
Electric Engineering...........    847 oo
Medical Demonstrations........    6,685 00
Electrotherapeutics............    944 oo
Key Deposits.................      592 oo
Drawing Boards..............       444 oo




272


OCTOBER MEETING, 9po3.


Diplomas.....................     8,720  00
Combined Courses............        360 00
Total Fees............. $202,822 97
Fees Refunded.........       7,689 64
Students' Fees, Net...... $I94,752 33


$202,822 97  $693,728 41


DISBURSEMENTS FROM


THE GENERA]


General  Pay  Roll.................... $193,586  86
Literary Pay Roll, Summer School.....   7,55 00
Literary Current Expenses, Summer
School.......................
Law Department Pay Roll............    44,029 50
Law Dept. Pay Roll, Summer School..       995 72
Law Dept., Current Expenses.........
Law   Library  Books..................
Law Dept. Expenses, Summer School..
Medical Department, Pay Roll.........   41,823 62
Medical Dept., Pay Roll, Summer School   1,126 25
Medical Dept., Expenses Summer School
Medical Dept., Current Expenses......
Medical Department, Books..........
Pharmacy and Chemical Dept., Pay Roll   24,400 00
Pharmacy and Chemical Dept., Expenses
Homceopathic Medical College, Pay Roll   6,600 00
Homceopathic Medical College, Expenses
Homceopathic Medical College, Books..
Dental College, Pay Roll............  12,720 oo
Dental College, Expenses...........
Dental College, Books..........
Engineering Department, Pay Roll....   48,958 o6
Engineering Department, Expenses....
University Hospital, Pay Roll........  13,788 24
University Hospital, Expenses........
Homceopathic Hospital, Pay Roll......   4,712 95
Homoeopathic Hospital, Expenses......
Amount of Salaries Paid from General
Fund......................... $399,896 20
Contingent Account.................
Repairs Account........
Fuel  Account.......................
Lighting Account.............
Books for General Library (including
Bindery  Pay  Roll)................
Current Expenses for General Library
Postage.....................
Advertising and Printing............
Museum.......................
Botanical  Gardens...................
Botanical  Laboratory................
Histological Laboratory.............
Hygienic Laboratory...............
Zoological  Laboratory...............
Anatomical Laboratory, Material......
Anatomical Laboratory, Expenses......
Engineering Laboratory..............
Pathological Laboratory..............
Physiological Laboratory............
M ateria  M edica.....................
Engineering  Shops..................
Civil  Engineering...................
School  Inspection...................
Astronomical Observatory............
Physics............................
Surgical Department.................
Electrotherapeutics...................
Nervous Diseases..................
Waterman Gymnasium...............
Barbour Gymnasium.................
Students' Fees Refunded.............


L FUND.
$200,74I 86
370 64
45,025 22
787 57
1,677 33
133 98
42,949 87
32 75
257 62
1,290 47
24,400 0o.
9,882 q4
6,6o0 oo
420 36
I82 59
12,720 00
5,734 42
190 8i
48,958 o6
660 73
13,788 24
27,538 00
4,712 95
15,713 35


29,144 88
8,813 38
30,377 87
2,301 60
12,064 49
694 3 
1,217 20
3,4I 77
488 46
235 6i
649 13
1,221 o6
6,732 84
974 02
1,870 58
354 28
661 48
585 39
416 12
712 13
1,531 83
3,545 76
479 85
302 65
i,86s  I5
297 o6
418 67
I84 59
165 59
64 I9
7,689 64




OCTOBER MEETING, i903.                               273
Philosophy..........................                   337  73
Carpenter Shop Supplies............                   1,262 86
Teams..............................                   I,543 15
Geology.............................                   189  86
Electrical  Supplies..................               1,422  I 
Ophthalmology......................                    40 31
Dermatology.......................                       17 02
Latin...............................                   269  87
Music..............................                    I02  90
Theory and Practice..................                   551 oI
Heating Supplies....................                  I,615 27
General Catalogue...................                    362 22
Commencement Expenses.............                     756 94
Appointment Committee.............                       74 81
German.............................                      90 52
G reek..............................                     2  28
Diplomas...........................                  I,4.35  50
University Laundry.................                   5,026 38
W ater  Supply......................                 2,496  55
Alumni Association..................,400 oo
Repairs in General Library...........                 9,239 63
Hospital Boiler House................                3   I,853 I2
Mtichigan Law Review................                    500 00oo
American  History...................                   230  55
English..........................                     45 28
Forestry............................                  144  39
Political  Economy...................                 321  99
H istory.............................                  261  86
Psychology..........................                       60
Palmer Memorial Hospital;Vard......                  7,656 94
Naval Architecture...................                   47 76
Printing  Plant......................                  360  93
Pasteur Institute Laboratory.........                   84 93
Addition to Heating Plant............                I4,090 15  $668,072 35
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I903                             25,656 o6
$693,728 41
SPECIAL FUND ACCOUNTS.
Homoeopathic Medical College.
Receipts.
From State ''reasurer............................   $6,0oo oo    $6,000 oo
Disb tirsements.
Paid Vouchers..................................  4,400 oo
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I903................,600 oo      6,000 oo
Electric Light Plant.
Receipts.
From Earnings.................................      60 oo
Balance Overdrawn, June 30, 1903.................      I24 54       184 54
Disbltrsemenzts.
Balance Overdrawn, July i. I902..................      184 54       184 54
Summer Hospitals.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer............................   $6,ooo oo    $6,000 oo
Disbursements..
Paid  Vouchers...................................   3,000  oo
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903................    3;ooo oo     6,00o oo




274               OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.
Psychopathic Ward.
Receipts.
From    State  Treasurer............................  25,000  00   5,000 o o
Disbursements.
Balance Overdrawn, July i, 1902...................      24 60
Paid   Vouchers..................................   23,663  46
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I903.................,311 94     25,000 oo
Accumulation of Savings, New Engineering Building.
Receipts.
From    State  Treasurer............................  75,000  oo  75,000 oo
Disbursements.
Balance Overdrawn, July I, 1902..................        24 70
Paid Vouchers.................................      69,836 34
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903................    5.138 96    75,000 00
Accumulation of Savings, New Medical Building.
Receipts.
From  State Treasurer............................    82,959 80
Balance Overdrawn, June 30, 1903................      4,597 32    87,557 12
Disbursements.
Balance Overdrawn, July I, 1902..................     9,147 02
Paid  Vouchers....................................  78,410  o0   87,557  i2
Accumulation of Savings, Repairs to Barbour Gymnasium.
Receipts.
From    State  Treasurer............................  10,00 00    0,000  00
Disblurse1ments.
Balance Overdrawn, July I, 1902...................     469 98
Paid  Vouchers..................................     8,190  76
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I903...............     1,339 26   Io,000 oo
Special Funds.
Summary of Balances, June 30, 1903.
Iomoeopathic Medical College, Balance in Treasury.. I.6o0 oo
Summer Hospitals, Balance in Treasury...........      3,000 oo
Psychopathic Ward, Balance in Treasury...........,311 94
New Engineering Building, Balance in Treasury....     5,138 96
Repairs to Barbour Gymnasium, Balance in Treasury      1,339 26    12,390 i6
Overdraft.
New   Medical Building...........................                  4,597 32
Net Balance in Treasury..........................                 $7,792 84
GIFTS AND TRUST FUNDS.
Under this head are included gifts and other funds which the Regents
have received from time to time from   benefactors for special purposes.  The
new accounts opened during the year are the Alice Freeman Palmer Memorial
Fund, the McMillan Shakespeare Fund, the Stearns' Music Fellowship Fund,
and the A. B. Palmer Memorial Free Bed Fund,




OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.                                  275
Philo Parsons Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 902.................          io8 46
From  Interest..................................            3 28        i1  74
Disblursc-enellts.
Balance in Treasury. June 30, 1903................         I I  74       I   74
Goethe Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, I902.................         206 09
From    Interest...................................         6  24      212  33
Disbursenments.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903................        212 33        212 33
Elisha Jones Classical Fellowship Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 1902..................          9 16
From    interest...................................          28         9  44
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903................           9 44.        9 44
Coyl Collection.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, 1902..................    12,659 38
Interest.........................................          537 77     I3,I97 15
Disblursemnents.
Paid Vouchers................................             321 52
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903.............         12,875 63    I3,I97 I5
Buhl Law Library Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, 1902.................         542 75
Interest..........................5 I5 55                               558 30
Disbursements.
Paid   V ouchers..................................         60  oo
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I903                         498 30        558 30
Seth Harrison Scholarship Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, 1902................        29,052 31
Interest.........................................       1,174  51   30,226  82
Disbursements.
Paid  Vouchers...................................       800  00
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I903................      29,426 82    30,226 82
Class of Ninety-Four Scholarship Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, I902.................       1,526 41
Contributions....................................          20  00
Interest.........................................         35  08     1,581  49
Disbiurselmenits.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I903...................                 I,581 49,58  49




27 6               OCTOBER MEE TING, z903.
Ford-Messer Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, 1902.................  24,35 77
Interest.........................................      868  75   25,244   52
Disbursements.
Paid for Premium on Bonds Bought................      I,228 50
Paid   V ouchers..................................,    87
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903.................   22,834 I5    25,244 52
The Phillips Scholarships Funds.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, 9o2...................      550 55.
Interest......................................         5  45
From the Estate Rentals..........................       I93 98       759 98
Disbursemlents.
Paid Vouchers Scholarships Awarded..............        150 oo
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903...............      609 98       759 98
Music Hall Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, 1902.................    1,330 76
Interest.........................................       32   77   1,363   53
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903.................,363 53     1,363 53
Class of Ninety-Seven Scholarship Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 1902.................      177 53
Interest.........................................        3  87      i8i  40
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903................     181 40        i8I 40
Class of Ninety-Eight Scholarship Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, I902..................    286 70
Contributed.....................................       90  oo
Interest........................................        12  36     389   o6
Disbursenments.
Balance  in  Treasury, June  30, I903......................  389  o6  389  o6
American School at Rome.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, 1902.................           11
From  Contributions.............................       1-41 Io      141 21
Disbburse men1 ts.
Paid Vouchers...................................        40 00oo
Transfer to Special Latin Fund...................         I I0
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I903................           I       41 2I
Parke, Davis & Co. Fund.
Receipts.
Contribution....................................      500  oo      500  oo
Disburselments.
Paid Vouchers.,......................           500 oo  500 oo




OCTOBER MEETING, i903.                                277
Stearns Pharmacy Fellowship Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, 1902.................         I 56
Contribution.....................................        350 oo       351 56
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers...................................         350 00oo
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I903................          i 56       351 56
Library of Early Christian Literature.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 1902.................     8 20
Interest........................................           28
Contributions....................................         45 oo        53 48
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers...................................          50 89
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903................         2 59        53 48
Special Latin Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, I902..................        2 32
Transfer from  American School at Rome..........           I 10         3 42
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903................         3 42         3 42
Good Government Club.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, 1902.................      653 89
Interest.21 OI
Interest....'.....................................     21  o 
From Contributions..............................          75 oo       749 90
Disbursements.
Paid  Vouchers...................................        25  00
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I903...............        724 90       749 90
Peter White Fellowship.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, I902.................      437 94
Interest.........................................          6 48
Contributions....................................      400  oo       854  42
Disbursements.
Paid  Vouchers...................................      400  00
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903.................     454 42       854 42
Woman's Professorship Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, 1902..................   11,221 95
Interest.........................................      369    36  11,591  31
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers...................................       94 80
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903................    11,496 51    I1,591 31




278


OCTOBER MEETING, i903.


Ninety-Nine Law Class Fellowship Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 1902..................    32 I2
Interest.........................................        97       33  09
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, '1903................    33 09       33 09
Williams Professorship Fund.
The care of the Williams' Professorship Fund has been partly in the hands
of the Treasurer, and partly in the hands of Mr. George S. Field. A summary
of the report of Mir. Field is in an appendix to the present report. (See Appendix). The report on the portion in the hands of the Treasurer is as follows:


Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, 1902..................
Interest.........................................
Disbursements.
Paid   Vouchers..................................
Balance  in  Treasury, June  30,  1903................
Biological Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 1902................
Disbursements.
Paid   Vouchers...................................
Morris Alumni Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 1902..................
Interest.......................................
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903................
Bates Professorship Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 1902, Cash and Loans..  ic
Balance in Property.............................   2
Interest.........................................
From   Rentals...................................
Disbursements.
Care of Property, Expenses, Taxes, etc.............
B ooks...........................................
Salaries of Professors and Assistants.............
Instruments, Apparatus and Laboratory Supplies....
Premium on Bonds Bought.......................
Paid   Legatee...................................
Balance in Cash Acct., June 30, 1903.............. Ic
Balance in Property Acct., June 30, 1903.........   2
D. M. Ferry Botanical Fund.
Receipts.
Contribution....................................
Overdrawn, June 30, I903........................
Disbursements.
Paid  Vouchers...................................


4,099 54
93 62
50 oo
4,143 i6


4,193 i6
4,193 i6


50 oo         50 00
50         oo 500oo


2,718 67
73 74
2,792 41
02,253 69
29,423 43
5,924 74
3,676 24
4,030 33
139 62
2,700 00
328 09
2,047 50
1,200 00
)2,606 10
28,226 46
450 00
50 00


2,792 41
2,792 41
141,278 I0
141,278 o1
500 00


500 00       500 oo




OC OBEER lMEETING, 1903.                              279
Class of Ninety-Nine Memorial Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 1902.................         6 35         6 35
Disbiursem ents.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903...............         6 35          6 35
Newton Van der Veer Loan Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 1902...................    20 59
From   Interest...................................        7  89
From   Contributions..............................      Io 00       318  48
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903................      318 48        318 48
Students' Lecture Association Fund., Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, 1902.................     I,005 33
Interest.........................................        25  67    1,031  00
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903................     1,031 00     1,031 1o
Liquid Air Plant.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 1902.................        I2 49        12 49
Disbursemsients.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903................        2 49         12 49
James W. Scott Classical Fellowship Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 1902.................        i6 93
Interest.........................................           28        17 21
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903................    17 21        17 21
International Club     Scholarships.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, 1902.................     3,526 25
Interest.........................................        120 00
Contribution from the Club.......................       500 oo      4,146 25
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers...................................       1,365 00
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903...............      2,781 25     4,146 25
Hannah E. Davis Allopathic Hospital Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 1902..................    2,164 30
Interest.........................................       49  02     2,213  32
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903................     2,213 32     2,213 32




280                OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.
Warner Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 1902.................          I 05
Interest.........................................            05         I  10
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I903................        I 10         I 
Gas Association     Fellowship    Fund.
Receipts.
From   Contribution..............................       565 00        565 oo
Disbursements.
Balance Overdrawn, July I, 1902..................   42 43
Paid Vouchers..................................          479 97
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I903................         42 60       565 0o
Nelson, Baker & Co. Fellowship Fund.
Receipts.
Contribution................................        500          500 oo
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers..............................0....         500 o        500 oo
Palmer Memorial Ward.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, I902.................     17,932 30    17,932 30
Disbursements.
Paid  Vouchers..................................      I7,036  74
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903................        895 56     I7,932 30
Walter Crane Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, I902.................      1,168 60
Interest.........................................         26  o6    I,I94  66
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers..................................          623 40
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I903...............        57I 26      I,I94 66
Chemical Apparatus Fund.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 1902..................       I07 67
Interest..........................................            80       io8 47
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I903.................      Io8 47       io8 47
Buhl Classical Fellowship.
Receipts.
Contribution.....................................        500  oo      500  00
Disbursements.
Paid  Vouchers...................................      494  64
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I90o3...............          5 36       500 00




OCTOBER MEETING, 90o3.


281


Alice Freeman Palmer Memorial Fund.
Receipts.
From  Contributions..............................         Io 00
Interest.......................................           15        Io 15
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I903................        Io 15         IO 15
McMillan Shakespeare Fund.


Receipts.
From   Contributions..............................
D isb ursements.
Paid   V ouchers..................................
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I903................
Treadwell Free Bed Fund.


I00 00
23 57
76 43


I00 00
100 00


Receipts.
From  Interest from  Endowment Fund............          91 67        91 67
Disb urscnlienzts.
Paid Vouchers..................................          38 57
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I903................     53 Io        91 67
Stearns Music Fellowship Fund.
Receipts.
From   Contribution............................       500  oo     500  oo
Disb 1'lse l C lts.
Paid Vouchers..................................        498 Io
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1903................        I 9        500 00
Palmer Free Bed Fund.
Receipts.
From    Contribution..............................  15,000  oo   15,000  oo
Disburseiments.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I903................   I5,000       oo0 5,000 oo


SUMMARY OF TRUST FUND BALANCES.
IN BANK AND     LOANS
CASH.    AND PROPERTY.
Philo Parsons Fund................      $III 74
Goethe Fund....................         212 33
Elisha Jones Fellowship Fund.....          9 44
Coyl Library Fund................     2,875 63     I0,000 00
Buhl Law Library Fund..........         498 30
Seth Harrison Fund..............      4,426 82     25,000 00
'94 Scholarship Fund.............        8i 49      1,500 00
Ford-Messer Library Fund........      2,834 15     20,000 00
Phillips Scholarships Fund.........      609 98
Music Hall Fund.................        363 53      1,000 00
'97 Class Scholarship Fund........      181 40
'98 Class Scholarship Fund........      389 o6
American School at Rome Fund....            II1
Stearns Pharmacy Fellowship Fund           I 56
Library of Early Christian Literature  Fund...................        2  59
Special  Latin  Fund...............       3  42
Good Government Club Fund......         724 90
Peter White Fellowship Fund.....         454 42


TOTAL.
$11 74
212 33
9 44
12,875 63
498 30
29,426 82
1,58I 49
22,834 15
609 98
1,363 53
3896I 
11
I 56
2 59
3 42
724 90
454 42




282


OCTOBER IEETING, 1903.


Woman's Professorship Fund......
'99 Law Class Scholarship Fund....
WVilliams Professorship Fund.......
WVilliams Professorship Fund.......
In charge of George S. FieldMorris Alumni Fund..............
Bates Professorship Fund..........
Bates Professorship Property Fund.
'99 Class Memorial................
Newton Van der Veer Loan Fund..
Students' Lecture Association Fund.
Liquid Air Plant Fund............
Fames W. Scott Fellowship Fund...
Internat. Club Scholarship Fund;..
Hannah E. Davis Allopathic Hospital.........................
W\ arner  Fund....................
Michigan Gas Association Fund.....
Palmer Memorial Ward Fund......
Palmer Memorial Free Bed Fund...
\alter Crane Fund..............
Chemical Apparatus Fund..........
Buhl Classical Fellowship Fund....
Alice Freeman Palmer Memorial
Fund.......................
McMillan Shakespeare Fund........
Treadwell Free Bed Fund..........
Stearns Music Fellowship Fund....


496 51      11,oo000 oo,496 5I
33 09                       33 09
143 i6      4,000 00       4, 43 I6
13,442 26     13,442 26
542 41       2,250 00      2,792 41
17,806 Io     84,800 oo    102,606 o0
28,226 46     28,226 46
6 35                        6 35
318 48                      318 48
14I oo        890 oo       1,031 00
12 49                       I2 49
17 21                       17 21
2,781 25                    2,781 25
2,213 32                    2,213 32
I10                         I I10
42 60                       42 60
895 56                      895 56
4,300 00     I0,700 00      15,000 00
571 26                      571 26
I08 47                      Io8 47
5 36                        5 36
I0 I5                       I0 15
76 43                       76 43
53 Io                       53 Io
I 90                        I 90
$44,358 17   $2I2,808 72   $257,166 89


APPENDIX.
Williams Professorship Fund.
In July, 1898, by order of the Board of Regents, a portion of the property
belonging to the Williams Professorship Fund was placed in the hands of
Hon. Levi L. Barbour, of Detroit, for management, and upon his assuming
the duties of Regent, the management was turned over to Mr. George S.
Field, of Detroit, by direction of the Board.
The following statement, compiled and rearranged from the report of Mr.
Field shows the changes in the condition of the fund from June I7th, 1902,
to June I5th, 1903:


Receipts.
Cash Balance, June 17, 1902.....................
Mortgages.  (Payments on Principal)..............
Land Contract. (Payment on Principal)...........
Interest on Loans and Contracts...................
Loan from City Savings Bank on note to complete
Loan to Mr. Logiodice.....................
Disbursements.
Paid for Mortgage, Wm. Voorheis, Jr    $700 oo
and Accrued Interest........      16 68
Loans  on  M ortgages.............................
Paid City Savings Bank on Note...................
Balance Cash on Hand, June 15, 1903............


$487 36
1,o50 75
290 00
681 13
438 oo    $2,947 24


716 68
2,050 00
119 oo
61 56


2,947 24


The value of the property in the hands of Mr. Field, June 15, 1903,
(partly estimated) is given below:


Cash    Balance....................................
Mortgages on Real Estate........................
Land  Contracts.................................
R eal  E state.....................................
Owe balance on Note to Bank, Principal and Interest
to make up Loan to Mr. Logiodice...........


61 56
11,444 25
495 oo
1,767 io


13,767 9I
325 65
$I3,442 26


The Board then took a recess until I:30 p. r.




OCTOBER _MEETINGG, 90o3.


283


AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at I:30. M., Regent Dean being
present.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the degree of Bachelor
of Laws was conferred upon Francis W. Balcomb, William
Everett Keenan, John Henry Lynch, and Salem Jewell Rice,
in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the
Department of Law.
On motion of Regent Hill, the degree of Bachelor of
Science in Mechanical Engineering was conferred upon
James Vernon Davidson, as recommended by Engineering
Faculty.
Regent Hill presented and read the following communication from the Faculty of the Department of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the degrees indicated were conferred upon the persons therein named by the full vote of
the Board:
Tle Honorable, the Board of Regents.
GENTLEMEN:-I have the honor to report to you that the
Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the
Arts recommend to you the following named persons for the
degrees indicated:
FOR BACHELOR O)r ARTS.
Loouis Ascham,
WValter Gelvin Bain,
Leila Jane Carlisle,
Erie Elsworth Clippinger,
Darrell Hanug Davis,
William D. Henderson,
Ralph Chester Lane,
William Russell Lloyd,
Evelyn Olive MacNaughton,
Iuiz Marino Perez,
W'alter Boughton Pitkin,
Anna Amelia Schryver,
Hubert Chester Sharp,
Manson Alexander Stewart,
John Raymond Thrasher,
Zadia Elvira Udell,
Joseph Vernor Voorheis.




284


OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.


FOR MASTER OF ARTS.
Frank Fraser Potter,
Charles William Mickens.
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DE PONT.
The President stated that he had received from     Mir.
Joseph Bradford Whittier, of Saginaw, Mich., by the hand
of the Hon. Peter White, a check for $4,000, for the endowment of a Fellowship in Botany, in memory of his mother,
Angeline Bradford Whittier.
Regent Barbour moved that the gift be received, and that
the Fellowship shall be known as the "Angeline Bradford
Whittier Fellowship in Botany," and the President be requested to convey to Mr. Whittier the sincere thanks of the
Board for his generous gift to the University. It was so
ordered.
On motion of Regent Hill, Mr. Alexander Linn Trout
and William Duncan McNally were appointed assistants in
General Chemistry for one year without salary, and Oscar
William Voedisch was designated as the holder of the Parke,
Davis & Company Fellowship in General Chemistry for the
present academic year.
On motion of Regent Hill, Miss Inis H. Weed was
appointed Assistant in Rhetoric for one year without compensation.
Regent Hill presented and read the resignation of Eugene
C. Sullivan as Instructor in Analytical Chemistry, which was
accepted by the Board.
Regent Hill moved that the following appointments be
made for one year:
George P. Burns, Ph.D., Instructor in Botany, salary........$900
Alfred Dachnowski, A.M., Assistant in Botany, salary......... 200
A. W. Pierson, Assistant in Botany, salary................. Ioo
Wesley Bradfield, A.B., Assistant in Botany, salary......... Ioo
John W. Scholl, A.M., Instructor in German, salary............. oo
Harry W. Dub6e, A.M., Instructor in German, a little more
than  half  time,  salary................................... 500
James P. Bird, A.B., Instructor in French (Engineering), salary. 930




OCTOBER MEETING, 90o3.


285


The request of Professor Wenley for an appropriation
for the purpose of framing photographs and engravings of
the principal philosophers and psychologists, living and dead,
which he had purchased and presented to the University to
be placed on the walls of the philosophical iooms, and in the
psychological laboratory, was referred to the Auditing Board
with power.
On motion of Regent Hill, MAr. William    D. Henderson,
A.B., was appointed Assistant in Physics for one year at a
salary of $30 a month, by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Lawton presented the following communication
from Dr. A. B. Prescott, Director of the School of Pharmacy,
and the appointments recommended were approved by the
unanimous vote of the Board.
ANN ARBOR, Oct. I3, I903.
To the -HoInorable, the Board of Regentis:
GENTIrMEN: I beg leave to recommend for appointment under
the present salary budget of the Chemical Laboratory and School
of Pharmacy, for the year 1903-1904, as follows:
Silas F. Scott, Ph.C., B.S., to be Assistant in Organic Chemistry in place of L. D. Haigh and at same salary, $200.00. (Minutes.
June, 190o, p. 62.)
Chas. W. Edmunds, M.D., Assistant in Pharmacology in Departmnent of Medicine, to be continued for instruction in School of
Pharmacy with $2oo.oo from the budget of this department, the
same as last year. (Minutes, October, I902, p. I36.)
Harold W. Ryland, to be Assistant in Analytical Chemistry at
$200.00, according to my request through the Executive Committee
in filling the instructorship resigned by Dr. E. C. Sullivan since the
last meeting of the Board.
Elmer E. Ware, to be Assistant in Chemical Technology and
Analyst for the State Geological Survey, without salary, and in
place of F. S. Hornberger. (Minutes, 1902, June, p. 62.)
Johannes Korselt, Ph.D., to be Assistant in Research and holder
of the fellowship supported by Messrs. F. Stearns & Co., to whom
thanks are due for continuation of the support for 1903-04, this
appointment to be without salary from the University. (Minutes,
October, I902, p. 136.)
Respectfully submitted,
A. B, PREscort.




286


OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.


The resignation of Dr. John A. Watling was presented by
the President and accepted by the Board.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the degree of Doctor of
Medicine was conferred upon James George Cumming, in
accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the
Department of Medicine and Surgery.
Regent Lawton presented and read the following communication from the Faculty of the Department of Medicine
and Surgery, and the recommendations therein contained
were approved by the full Board.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
GgNTLI'MEN:-I am instructed by the Medical Faculty to present
to you the following requests:
1. That David J.,evy may be appointed Assistant in Bacteriology in place of Ward J. MacNeal, A.B., at the same salary, $300.
2. That Ward J. MacNeal, A.B., be appointed Rockefeller Fellow in Bacteriology, for the present year, without expense to the
University.
3. That Harold Voltman be appointed, for this year, Rockefeller Fellow in Pathology without expense to the University.
4. That Mary F. Leach, Ph.D., be appointed for the present
year, Ford Fellow in Physiological Chemistry, without expense to
the University.
5. That May Wheeler, Ph.D., be appointed, for the present year,
Vaughan Fellow in Hygiene without expense to the University.
6. Inasmuch as the Instructor in Physiology has resigned, and
Dr. Lombard has not been able up to the present time to find one
competent to fill the place, the Faculty recommends that Dr. Lombard be authorized to appoint three student assistants, each one to
give half his time to the work, at three hundred dollars each. I
may state that Dr. Bowen's salary was $900.00. This, therefore,
does not necessitate any increased expenditure.  At present Dr.
Lombard is prepared to recommend Fred M. Abbott as one of these
assistants, and I respectfully ask his appointment.
7. Dr. William  H. Morley has resigned his service on the
Gynecological staff, and Dr. Peterson requests that Charles L. Patton, M.D., be advanced to First Assistant in Obstetrics and Diseases
of Women at the same salary as Dr. Morley, $200; also that Arthur
P. Reed, A.B., M.D., be advanced to occupy the position thus
vacated by Dr. Patton, and that Rolland L. Parmeter, M.D., be
advanced to the position occupied by Arthur P. Reed.    These
changes do not necessitate nor ask for any increased expenditures.
All of which is respectfully submitted,
V. C. VAUGHAN.




OCTOBER MEETIAG, 90o3.


287


On motion of Regent Lawton, the Auditing Board were
authorized to select and purchase a bronze tablet to be placed
in the Palmer Ward at the University Hospital, as a memorial
to the late Doctor A. B. Palmer, for many years Dean of
the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the bill of Pond & Pond,
architects, for making plans for an addition to the Physical
Laboratory, was referred to the Secretary with power.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was authorized to pay the bill of the Gardner Elevator Company,
amounting to $325, if upon inspection he finds they have performed their work in accordance with the terms of their
contract.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted that the
Auditing Board employ such clerical help in the office of the
Dean of the Engineering Department as may, in their judgment, seem necessary.
Regent Fletcher moved that the contract to furnish a new
booster for the lighting plant be awarded to the Northern
Electrical Manufacturing Company, of Chicago, for the sum
of $576, F. O. B., Madison, Wisconsin. The motion was
carried on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Auditing Board were
authorized to purchase 50 lockers for the Barbour Gymnasium.
Regent Fletcher moved that the Johnson Service Company be paid the sum of $3,605.40 on their contract for heat
regulation in the new Engineering building. The motion
was carried on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the following appointments were made in Mechanical Engineering for one year by
the full vote of the Board:
Frank Merrill Dunlap, Mech. E., Acting Assistant Professor in Mechanical Engineering. Salary paid by Professor
M. E. Cooley.
Austin Perry Biggs and Lewis Chubb Rogers to be
Assistants in Mlechanical Engineering. Salary $200 each.
Roscoe Bradbury Jackson, B.S., Instructor in Mechanical
Engineering. Salary, $90goo.




288


OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.


On motion of Regent Barbour, it was voted that the
Engineering students taking summer work in the field, shall
be required to pay a fee of $io each for the use of the outfit;
and such fee shall constitute a fund for the purpose of keeping the outfit in order.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Department of
Mechanical Engineering was granted a shop allowance of
$300, by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Lawton submitted the following Rules and Regulations for the Administration of Affairs in the University
Hospital, which were adopted by the full vote of the Board.
PLurES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OI AFFAIRS IN THE
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL.
(I) The conduct of the affairs of the University Hospital shall
be in accordance with such rules and instructions as may from time
to time be afforded by the Board of Regents, and to this body must
be referred all questions of disputed authority or other matters
that may not be otherwise easily adjusted. Matters of difference
arising between heads of clinics in the hospital or between the
heads of clinics and the Superintendent on medical affairs shall be
submitted to the Dean of the Medical Department and his decision
shall be final unless subsequently overruled or modified by the
Board of Regents. The Dean of the Medical Department shall also
exercise general supervision over the clinical affairs of the hospital
and over the Superintendent in matters pertaining to the medical
affairs of the institution.
(2) The Superintendent is the responsible administrative officer
of the hospital. FI-s authority extends over all the business affairs
of the institution and over all who are residents there, whether
employes or patients, in everything except in matters pertaining to
the treatment of the sick.
He is the executive officer of the Board of Regents at the hospital; the purchasing agent for food and supplies. He shall pass
upon the admission of patients to the hospital as hereinafter set
forth and also upon the admission of visitors, it being understood
that in this latter he shall strictly follow the requirements regarding any patient given by the hospital physician who is administering
to such patient.
The Superintendent shall engage the nurses and all other
employes of the hospital, other than the internes, by and with the
consent of the Auditing Board of the University, and they shall be




OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.


289


subject to their direction and control, it being understood, however, that the nurses in caring for patients shall in such duty be
subject to the instructions of the physician in charge. No pupil
nurse may be discharged except by action of the Hospital Committee.
The Superintendent shall see to and provide for all the housekeeping necessities of the,institution. But in all matters pertaining
to the administration of the affairs of the hospital and the purchasing of supplies it shall be the duty of the Superintendent to consult with the President and Secretary of the University, and to keep
them fully informed regarding its condition and-especially of particular' facts as' they'may arise.
In the purchasing' of supplies and the hiring of help and discharging employes the Superintendent shall consult with the Auditing Board of the University and shall not act without their consent,
'The Superintendent shall be a member of the Hospital Committee,.
which;Committee shall otherwise, consist of the heads of the se~eral clinics.. The Hospital Committee shall employ and control
the action and duties of the internes subject to the Regents. This.
Committee shall control the medical treatment of patients and the
attendance of students' at the lectures andat clinics and shall have
jurisdiction over any and ail matters, purely medical, pertaining
to the clinical department of the' Hospital. 'But it is understood
that the head of every clinic shall have full-jurisdiction in the medical -matters in his own department. The internes shall be subject
to the Superintendent only, in matters, pertaining, to the business
affairs of the Hospital. In,all other questions they shall be subject
to the order of: the head of the clinics in which they are serving.The House Physician shall make the assignments of cases to
the clinics and when the head of any clinic sends in a case as an
emergency, the house physician shall accept it as such, otherwise
he shall determine on the first arrival of the patient as to the
emergency of cases and his decision shall be final, 'but subject to
subsequent revision, if necessary, by the Hospital Committee. The
House Physician shall be chosen..by the Superintendent subject to
the approval of the Hospital Committee and preference shall be given
in this matter of making a selection to retiring internes; it being
assumed that by so doing the liability for mistaken choice would
be greatly lessened.
The Superintendent is expected 'to take cognizance of everything in the hospital and to be mindful of everything that transpires; to see that quiet and good order prevails; to see that proper
cleanliness is secured; to see that wastefulness is eliminated and
due economy in the consumption of food and materials is adhered




290


OCTOBER MEETING, 1903.


to; and that the employes are all careful, respectful and duly attentive. to their work.
'rhe Superintendent is not expected to interfere in any matter
pertaining purely to the medical or surgical treatment of patients,
but this may not exclude him from noticing if there be any seeming
neglect of the treatment and care of patients and from calling the
attention of the head of the clinic to such neglect if he finds it
to occur.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Regents Fletcher and
Carey were appointed a committee to secure the services of a
good mason by the year, at a salary of $900.
Regent Hill moved that $I50 be appropriated for the
purpose of meeting certain expenses in connection with the
meeting of the State Teachers' Association, which will convene in Ann Arbor on December 28th, I903. This motion
was carried on a call vote.
The state commission on the Louisiana Purchase Exposition having requested the loan of the model of the works
of the Calumet & Hecla Mining Company (now the property
of the University), for exhibition at St. Louis, Regent Butterfield moved that the request be granted, provided they
guarantee the safe return of the property and assume the
entire cost of packing and transportation. It was so ordered.
The President presented and read the following communication from   Professor M. L. D'Ooge, and the President was requested to convey the thanks of the Board to the
persons named in the communication as contributors to the
fund for the maintenance of the American School of Classical
Studies at Athens.
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Oct. 14, I903.
To the President and the Board of Regents of the University of
Michigan:
CGENTLEMEN: I respectfully beg you to pass a vote of thanks
to the persons named below, who for the past twenty years have
made it'possible for this University by their generous contributions
to cooperate with the other leading Universities of this country in
the maintenance of the American School of Classical Studies at
Athens, thereby enabling the graduates of our University to enjoy
the advantages of this school without any cost.




OCTOBER MEETINVG, 1903.


291


During this period these friends of the University have contributed four thousand one hundred and eighty ($4,I80) dollars
to this object, and unless your honorable body shall deem it proper
to vote an appropriation for this purpose from the funds of the
University, as is done by most of the contributing colleges, it will
be necessary to rely in the future as in the past upon the generosity
of our friends, most of whom are alumni, to support this worthy
enterprise.
The funds contributed have come into my hands or been senon to the Treasurer of,the school. It might be more satisfactory
to all who are interested if hereafter these funds should pass
through the hands of the Treasurer of the University, who could
then include them regularly in his official statement of gifts to the
University.
The persons to whom thanks are due are the following:
Hon. D. M. Ferry and Mrs. Ferry, Detroit; Hon. T. W. Palmer,
Detroit; Hon. Win. A. Moore, Detroit; Mr. Frank H. Walker,
Detroit; Dr. E. T. Tappey, Detroit; Hon. Wm. Savidge, Spring
Lake; Mr. A. M. Henry, Detroit; Mr. Wm. H. Butler, Jr., Detroit;
Mr. E. H. Butler, Detroit; Hon. W. E. Quinby, Detroit; Miss Clara
A. Avery, Detroit; Mrs. Sarah Savidge, Spring Lake; Mrs. Helen
H. Newberry, Grosse Point; Mrs. Dwight Cutler, Grand Haven;
Mr. E. W. Pendleton, Detroit; Mr. Bryant Walker, Detroit; Mr.
C. M. Burton, Detroit; Hon. E. W. Meddaugh, Detroit; Mr. Henry
Russel, Detroit; Mr. John T. Michau, St. Joseph, Mo.; Prof. John
Stewart, Bay City; Prof. H. G. Sherrard, Detroit; Mr. John S.
Gray, Detroit; Mr. O. H. Dean, Kansas City, Mo.; Hon. Lawrence
Maxwell, Cincinnati, Ohio; Dr. L. S. Pilcher, Brooklyn, N. Y.;
Mr. Marcus Baker, Washington, D. C.; Prest. Jas. B. Angell, Ann
Arbor; Mr. D. J. Haff, Kansas City, Mo.; Hon. Sidney D. Miller,
Detroit; Mr. R. M. Wright, Fort Dodge, Iowa; Mr. Wm. J. Gray,
Detroit; Mr. F. L. Geddes, Toledo; Mr. Floyd B. Wilson, New
York City; Prof. T. B. Bronson, Lawrenceville, N. J.
Respectfully submitted by
MARTIN L. D'OOGe.
Regent Butterfield submitted the following preamble and
resolution, which were adopted by the unanimous vote of
the Board:
It having been suggested to this Board by a communication
from Hon. C. B. Grant, Chairman Committee of Alumni,,bat there
was a desire on the part of some of the Uuniversity Aiumni that a




292           OCTOBER 3MEETING, 1903.
building should be erected on the Campus in memory of those of
our students who have lost their lives in the Civil and Spanish wars,
Resolved, That the Board cordially approve of such suggestion
and agree that they will furnish space on the Campus for such building and will assume its maintenance when constructed.
The request for eight additional nurses in the University
Hospital was, on motion of Regent Butterfield, deferred, and
the Superintendent was requested to furnish the Board a
statement in detail of the service rendered by each nurse, and
the value thereof. Also whether nurses are being used outside the Hospital, and if so, to what extent.
On motion the Board adjourned to Tuesday, November
24th, at io o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




NOVEMBER MEETING.
UTNIVERSITY OF Ml\fICHIAN,,
ANN ARBOR, Nov. 24, 1003.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at io o'clock
A. M.
Present: Regents Farr, Hill, Lawton, Dean, Barbour,
Fletcher, and Carey.
Absent: Regent Butterfield.
In the absence of Secretary Wade, Professor Pettee
served as Secretary pro ternt.
The minutes of the previous meeting were read, approved,
and ordered printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the standing committees of the Board
for consideration.
The President read the following report of the Executive
Committee, and, on motion of Regent Hill, the action of the
committee was ratified by the full vote of the Board.
To ihe Board of Regents:
The Executive Committee beg leave to make the following
report of their action since your last meeting.
On Octcber Igth they appointed John Frederick Shepard, B.S.,
Assistant in Psychology for the current year, at the salary of $450,
this sum having been appropriated by you for the purpose.
They also appointed George Livingstone Hamilton, Ph.D.,
Instructor in French' f6r the current year, at the salary of $900, in
place of Mr. Beziat de Bordes, resigned.
In order to provide in Dart for the instruction in Civil Engineering after the death of Professor Charles E. Greene, on October 27th
they appointed Albert Emerson Greene, Ph.B., B.S., Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering, for the remainder of the year, at the
salary of $i600.
JA4MrS B. ANGELt,.
H. S. D-LAN.
The President read the following letter from Mr. J. D.
Hawks, President of the Detroit and Mackinac Railway




294


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1903.


Company, and, on motion of Regent Barbour, the President was requested to return to Mr. Hawks the thanks
of the Board for his valuable gift.
DETROIT, MICH., Oct. 26, 1903.
Mr. James B. Angell, LL. D.,
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
DEAR SIR:-I am sending you by American Express an album of
photographs illustrating log handling in Michigan between the woods
and the saw mill. It is unnecessary to call attention to the fact that
Michigan owes much of her wealth to her timber. These photographs
will gain in interest as the years go by. Logging operations are
almost a thing of the past, in the Lower Peninsula, and it will be only
a few years before it will be impossible to gather together such a set
of pictures. Allow me to express the hope that the album may be
saved, as far as possible, for the future student of our lumbering
operations.             Yours truly,
J. D. HAWKS.
The President called the attention of the Board to the fact
that the plate for the Bachelor of Arts diploma had become so
worn by long use that it was desirable to have a new plate
made, and that the plate for the Bachelor of Laws diploma
needed retouching.
On motion of Regent Farr, it was voted that a sum not
exceeding $325 be appropriated for a new       plate for the
Bachelor of Arts diploma, and that the diploma should be in
English, and that the further sum of $ioo be appropriated for
retouching the plate for the Bachelor of Laws diploma. These
appropriations were made by the full vote of the Board.
The President named Regents Barbour and Hill, and
Professors Hudson, Vaughan, Hutchins, and Reed as a
special committee on the Summer Schools, as provided at the
previous meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the sum       of $4,ooo was
appropriated out of the income of the Bates Fund for the
Department of Diseases of Women and Children for the current year, by the full vote of the Board,-the sum to be distributed as follows:
Salary of Professor Peterscen.....................$o....$2  co
Salary of Demonstrator..................................  500 oo
Salary of Laboratory Assistant........................... 500 
Salary  of First Assistant.................................  oo00 oo
Salary of Second Assistant.............................. 200 oo
Surgical instruments and rubber gloves.................. 75 00
Current expenses, including laboratory supplies...........  325 oo
$4000 co




NO VEMABER MEETING, i903.


295


The following communication from       the Dean of the
Department of Medicine and Surgery was presented, and, on
motion of Regent Lawton, the appointments of Mr. Barrack,
Mr. Wiggers, and Dr. Cumming were made as requested, by
the full vote of the Board, with the understanding that the
salary of Dr. Cumming is to be paid from the appropriation,
previously made in the Budget, for the current expenses of
the Pasteur Institute.  No action was taken upon the request
for the renting of a house.
ANN ARBOR, Nov. I7, 1903.
Honorable Charles D. Lacltonl, Chairman of the Medical Committee
of the Bcard of Regents:
DGal SIR: I am instructed by the Medical Faculty to lay before
you the following requests:
I. That Mr. Iewis A. Barrack be appointed dispensing clerk in
the Electrotherapeutical Iaboratory in place of Mr. George H. Curtis
and at the same salary, $ioo.
2. That Mr. Carl J. Wiggers be appointed second student
assistant in Physiology at a salary of $300. You will remember that
at your last meeting the Board authorized Dr. Lombard, at the
request of the Faculty, to divide the $9oo, which had previously gone
to his instructor, among three student assistants. Dr. Lombard is
not. yet ready to name the third assistant.
3. On the motion of Dr. Peterson the following resolution was
passed unanimously by the MNedical Faculty:
"Resolved, That the Board of Regents be requested to rent a
separate house near the hospital for the use of obstetrical cases in
order that these cases may receive proper care and also in order that
the Palmer Ward may be. utilized to better advantage."
Dr. Cooley requests that Dr. James G. Cumming be appointed
laboratory assistant in the Pasteur Institute at a salary of $500 a
year. \You will remember that provision for this appointment was
made last spring when the Pasteur Institute was established. Dr.
Cuirming has been assisting Dr. Cooley ever since the opening of
the Institute; but inasmuch as Dr. Culmming had not received  his
degree at that time and it was not conferred upon him until your last
meeting, I have refrailed from asking for his appointment. I now
ask that this appointment be made and that it date from November
I, I903.
All of which' is respectfully submitted.
V. C. VAUGHAN, Dean.
A communication from     the Dean of the Department of
Medicine and Surgery, relating to the Palmer Ward, was
presented by Regent Lawton, and, on motion of Regent Barbour, was referred to Regents Lawton, Farr, and Fletcher for
consideration and report at the next meeting of the Board.




296


2VNO VEMBER MEE TING, 903.


The following communication was received from    the
Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and degrees were conferred, as requested, upon the persons named.
A NN ARBOR, MICI-I., Nov. 20th, I903.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
GEINTL'EMEN: I have the honor to report that the Faculty of the
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts recommend to
you the following named persons for the degrees indicated:
Bachelor of Arts-Ethel Winifred Bennett Chase, Ross V.
Dilley.
Master of Arts-Charles Edward Cullen.
Doctor of Philosophy-George Henry Allen.
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. dePoNT.
Regent Lawton presented a report relating to affairs at
the University Hospital and recommended the appointment of
eight additional nurses. On motion of Regent Hill, the
matter was postponed for consideration at the next meeting
of the Board.
Professors Vaughan and Hinsdale and Dr. Wessinger
addressed the Board in relation to a proposed detention hospital for infectious diseases, and, on motion of Regent Barbour,
Regents Lawton, Carey, and Hill were appointed a committee to represent the Board in conference with a committee of
the County Board of Supervisors upon the proposition
named.
Professor Reighard presented the report of the Curator of
the Museum. On motion of Regent Barbour, an edition of
500 copies of the report was ordered printed, at a cost not to
exceed $I6, by full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the question of ceiling the
attic of the Museum was referred to the Committee on Buildings and Grounds, with power, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Dean, Don Byron Webster was
appointed office assistant in the engineering shops for the year
beginning October I, I903, at a salary of $200, by the full
vote of the Board.
A communication from the Standing Committee of the




VOV EMBER MEETING, 1903.


297


Faculty of the Department of Engineering in relation to the
appointment of a Dean in place of Charles E. Greene,
deceased, was, on motion, referred to the Committee on the
Department of Engineering for consideration and report at
a subsequent meeting o'f the Board.
The following communication was presented and read,
and, on motion of Regent Fletcher, the request contained
therein was granted, subject as to details to the decision of
the Committee on the Department of Engineering.
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Nov. 23, I903.
To the Ilonorable Board of Regents, Ann Arbor; Michigan:
GENTIEMEI:N:-At a mass meeting of the students of the Engineering Department immediately after the demise of the Dean of the
Department, Professor Charles E. Greene, it was decided by a
unanimous vote that some fitting and lasting tribute in the way of
a permanent memorial be obtained and placed in the new Engineering building. The conmmittee appointed at the meeting, after conference with the Faculty of the Engineering Department, decided that
the memorial should take the form of a bronze tablet with an appropriate inscription.
The committee therefore requests your permission to have such
a tablet placed either in the archway leading through the building or
in some suitable place on one of the inner walls.
Respectfully yours,
MORRIS H. STIMSON,
For the Students.
ALEXANDER ZtW WT,
For the Faculty.
On motion of Regent Carev, Mrs. Jaennie M. P. Brown
was appointed, by request of the Faculty of the Hommopathic
Medical College, matron of the University Hospital (Homceopathic) at a salary of $35 a month, by full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Regent Hill was appointed
a committee to consider the question of an exhibit by the
University at the St. Louis Exposition and report at the next
meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the degree of Bachelor of
Laws was conferred upon John Amos Belford, Samuel Hurd
Davis, and John Struthers Stewart, A.B., in accordance with
the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of
Law.
On motion, the Board took a recess until 2 P. MI.




298


28 NOVEMBER MEETING, 1903.


AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 p. M,, Regent Butterfield
being present, and Regent Carey absent. During the tem 
porary absence of the President the chair was occupied by
Regent Farr.
Regent Barbour presented a request for alterations at the
Barbour Gymnasium, involving double windows for the two
French doors, storm doors at the outside basement door,
finishing a vacant room in the basement, putting a partition
through the toilet room, and providing two additional washbowls; and on his motion, the matter was referred to the
Auditing Board, with power, by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Barbour called the attention of the Board to an
opportunity for improving certain pieces of unoccupied real
estate held by the University in Detroit and to a proposition
from Mr. James Holden in connection therewith; and moved
that the thanks of the Board be extended to Mr. Holden for
his offer of services in this connection; also that a communication from Mr. E. WV. Garpow relating to! a proposed purchase of a piece of land, be referred to Mr. Holden for inquiry
and report at the next meeting of the Board. The motion
was carried.
Regent Barbour presented a request from Librarian Davis
for changes in the library building and library administration
covering the following items:  (i) A large radiator for the
woman's cloak-room; (2) drop lights in the Faculty readingroom; (3) new fastenings for windows in book-room; (4).
additional fire protection at the south end of the book-room;
(5) renewal of curtains in seminary room; (6) repair of radiator in coin room; (7) increase of Miss Lane's salary; (8)
the use of an unexpended balance of $250, appropriated for
service at the return-desk, in increasing the efficiency of the
service at the delivery-desk; and (9) an additional table for
readers in the reading-room.
On motion the foregoing request was referred to the
Auditing Board, with power except as to the proposed
increase of salary, by the full vote of the Board.
The following communication from the Acting Dean of
the Dental Faculty was presented, and, on motion of Regent




NIO VMEBER M~EETING, 1903.


299


Lawton, the requests therein contained were granted by the
full vote of the Board.
To the Hlonorable Board of Regents:
DIneA S.IRS:-At a meeting of the Dental Faculty held November
I6th, these resolutions were unanimously adopted:  That the
Regents be requested to appropriate the sum of four hundred dollars,
to be expended under the direction of the Faculty, in providing three
or four non-resident lecture courses for the present session. These
lectures will not only assist us in caring for the work done by Dr.
Taft, but will enable us to present to the students some modern
methods in special lines of work in the technical departments.
Owing to the fact that our library is not now available to the
students in the evening, we request that fifty dollars be appropriated
for securing an attendant to look after it.
Respectfully submitted,
C. G. DARLING,
Dean of Dental Faculty.
On   motion, Regents Dean, Lawton, and        Hill were
appointed a committee to consider the feasibility of ascertaining, as early as the opening of the second semester in each
year, whether the junior professors, assistant professors and
instructors in the several departments of instruction are willing to remain in the service of the University, in their
respective positions during the following academic year.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the Committee on Buildings and Grounds was authorized to proceed with the construction of a refrigerator room at the University Hospital.
provided the work can be done in a satisfactory manner at a
cost not exceeding $2,000, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Tuesday, December
22, at TO A. M.
JAMES H. WADE.
Secretar.




DECEMBER MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MIICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, December 22, I903.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at 10 o'clock
A. M.
Present-Regents But'terfield, Farr, Hill, Lawton, Dean,
Barbour, and Fletcher.
Absent-Regent Carey.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Dean, approved and ordered
printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the standing committees of the Board
for consideration.
The following resolution, introduced by Regent Farr.
was adopted by the full Board.
Resolved, That the Auditor General be and is hereby
requested to transfer the undrawn balance of $53,905.00 of
the Aid fund for I902 to the "Accumulation of Savings
account;" apd that $1o,ooo of said sum so transferred be set
aside for the completion of the new Medical building, and
the remaining sum be set aside for completion of the new
Engineering building.
On motion of Regent Lawton, it was voted that the sum
of $500 be added to the book fund of the Department of
Medicine and Surgery for the purpose of enabling said
department to continue their files of medical journals.
Regent Farr introduced the following resolution, which
was adopted by the full vote of the Board:
Resolved, That the President and Secretary be and are
hereby authorized to execute a deed of lot 3, block I, Ralph
place in the City of Omaha, Nebraska, to Leopold Hahn, for
the consideration of $1,700, warranting the title thereof.




302


DECEMBER MEETING, 1903.


On motion of Regent Hill, Mr. Stephen I. Miller and
Edward H. Ryder were appointed assistants in Political
Economy without pay.
Regent Hill, Chairman of the Committee on the Louisiana Purchase Exposition, reported that he had visited St.
Louis and found that the space assigned to this University
was totally inadequate for the purpose of making an exhibit.
Regent Dean moved that Regent Barbour be added to the
committee, and unless space can be secured that shall be
satisfactory to the committee, either in the main building or
in the Michigan building, that no exhibit be made; otherwise the committee be authorized to expend a sum not
exceeding $2,500, in making said exhibit. It was so ordered
by the full Board.
On motion of Regent Dean, the degree of Bachelor of
Science in Mechanical Engineering was conferred upon
George Grant, Jr., in accordance with the recommendation
of the Engineering faculty.
On motion of Regent Dean, Mr. W. C. Willard was
appointed as instrument maker at a salary of $3 per day by
the full vote of the Board.
Regent Lawton presented and read the resignation of
Mr. A. M. Clover, instructor in General Chemistry, which
was accepted by the Board to take effect at the close of the
first semester.
On motion of Regent Lawton, Wm. Jay Hale, Ph. D.,
was appointed Instructor in General Chemistry for the second semester of the present academic year, in place of Mr.
A. M. Clover, resigned, salary $9oo per year, by the full vote
of the Board.
On motion of Re'ent Barbour, the Building Committee
were requested to confer with Drs. Vaughan and Hinsdale.
and report on the feasibility of putting in a plant for the
manufacture of ice for use in the hospitals, and also the
cost of procuring suitable ice for that purpose from other
sources.
Regent, Lawton moved that all restrictions as to the time
of closing the Junior Hop be removed. Regent Butterfield,
as a substitute, moved that the time for closing be fixed at
3 o'clock A. MI., and that the lights be turned off at 3:30.
The substitute was carried as follows:




DECEMBER MiEETING, I903.


303


Ayes-Regents Farr, Hill, Lawton, Butterfield, Dean,
dnd Fletcher.
Nays-Regent Barbour.
Regent Barbour moved that the President and Secretary
be authorized to sell by contract or by deed the six lots owned
by the University on Cavalry Avenue in the City of Detroit
for a sum not less than $2,000.  It was so ordered by the full
vote of the Board.
Regent Barbour, chairman of the Special Committee on
Summer School, submitted the following report, which was
adopted by the Board:
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-Your committee appointed to consider the advisability of uniting the Summer Sessions held in the Departments of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, of Engineering, of Law, and of
Medicine and Surgery, under the general direction and control of
the Board of Regents, beg to report as follows:
At a meeting of the committee, at which were present the President, Deans Hudson, Vaughan, Hutchins, and Mr. Reed, the question was considered and the committee were unanimously of the
opinion that, providing the details could be satisfactorily arranged,
the placing of the various schools now held or to be held in the
University of Michigan, during the summer, under the direction and
control of the Board of Regents would be of material advantage both
to the schools and to the University.
The working out of the details of a practical scheme of administration, hours, salaries, etc., has been entrusted to a committee
consisting of Messrs. Reed, Goddard, Huber, and Goulding. This
committee has begun work upon the question, and if it be the
pleasure of the Board, will have a detailed scheme, duly ratified by
the various faculties, ready to submit to the Board at the January
meeting.                             LEVI L. BARBOUR,
For the Committee.
The Board then took a recess until 2 o'clock P. AM.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock P. M.
On motion of Regent Farr, Regents Fletcher, Lawton
and Dean were appointed a special committee to make a
recast of the Standing Committees of the Board and report
the same to the next meeting of the Board for approval.




304


DECEMBER MEE TIn G, 1 903.


Regent Barbour moved that Professor J. R. Allen be
asked to furnish the Board an estimate of the cost of providing water, twice a week, for the swimming tank in the
Barbour Gymnasium, with the cost of heating the same.
And also to consider whether the roof of said building would
furnish the necessary water. It was so voted.
Professor Newcombe reported that Mr. Lewis Foote, a
former student of the University, had sent to the Botanical
Laboratory six boxes of pressed plants numbering two thousand species. On motion of Regent Hill the gift was
accepted, and the President was requested to transmit the
thanks of the Board to Mr. Foote for this evidence of his
interest in the University.
On motion of Regent Lawton, eight additional nurses
were allowed the University Hospital by 'the full vote of
the Board.
Regent Lawton presented the request of Mrs. J. Taft
that the salary of Dr. Taft (deceased) be continued for the
remainder of the college year. On motion the matter was
laid on the table until the next meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Dr. W. P. Lombard was
requested to present at the next meeting of the Board, a plan
for the repairs on the old M'edical building for consideration.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Superintendent Reeve
was requested to inspect the cold storage plant at Harper
Hospital, and, if possible, get other bids for the erection of
such a plant in University Hospital.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the contract for covering
pipes in the new Engineering building, as per specifications,
was awarded to Philip Carey Manufacturing Company, of
Detroit, for the sum of $2,400, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion the Board adjourned to Tuesday, January
T2th, at IO A. M.
JAMIES H. WADE.
Secretary.




JANUARY MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, January 14, I904.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at Io o'clock
A. M.
Present-Regents Hill, Lawton, Dean, Barbour, Fletcher, Carey, Knappen, and White.
Absent-None.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting,
which were, on motion, approved and ordered printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the standing committees of the
Board for consideration.
Regent Dean, from the committee appointed at the last
meeting to make a recast of the standing committees of the
Board, submitted the following report, which was adopted
by the full vote of the Board:
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
Your committee appointed to recommend Standing Committees
of the Board, beg to present the following:
Executive Committee.
The President, Regents Dean and Barbour.
Finance Committee.
Regents Barbour and Hill.
Committee on Literary Department and Athletics.
Regents Hill and Barbour.
Committee on Engineering Department.
Regents Dean and Fletcher.




306


JANUARY IMEETING, 1904.


Committee on Medical, Dental, and Pharmaceutical Departments.
Regents Lawton and Knappen.
Committee on' Law Departnment.
Regents Knappen and-Carey.
Committee on Homweopathic Department.
Regents Carey and White.
Committee on Library and Museum.
Regents White and Dean.
Committee on Buildings: and Grounds.
Regents Fletcher and Lawton.
F. W. FLETCHER,
C. D. LAWTON,
H. S. DEAN,
Committee.
Regent Lawton presented and read the following communication from the Dental Faculty, and the recommendations therein contained were approved by the full Board:
ANN ARBOR, January 14, I904.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
GENTLMEN:-The Faculty of the College of Dental Surgery has
arranged with Dr. W. T. Reeves, of Chicago, and Dr. E. B. Spalding, of Detroit, eminent specialists in their lines, to give a course in
porcelain filling, crown and bridge work, during the first and second
weeks in February.
It is the desire of the Faculty to open this course to a limited
number of practitioners. As there are not now any special University
fees covering such cases, the Dental Faculty recommends that a fee
of twenty-five dollars be authorized, to be collected from practitioners
attending the course, the same to be used in defraying the expense
involved.
It is confidently expected that these fees will be sufficient to
cover all expenses, and at the same time this valuable instruction
will be secured to the two upper classes without expense to the University.
Respectfully,
N. S. Hors,
Secretary of the Dental Faculty.




JANUARY MEETING, 1904.


307


On motion of Regent Barbour, the consideration of
questions relating to the Summer School was made the
special order for 2 o'clock P. M.
Regent Knappen was requested to define the powers
of the Board under the Stranahan'gift for scholarships,
and report at the next meeting of the Board.
Regent Barbour presented and read a protest of citizens of Detroit against the University building an apartment house in that city, and on his motion the matter was
referred to a special committee, consisting of Regents Hill,
Knappen, and Carey for consideration, and to report their
conclusions at the next meeting of the Board.
Regent Lawton, from    the special committee appointed
by the Board, to meet a like committee of the Board of
Supervisors of Washtenaw County, for the purpose of considering the advisability of joint action by the county and
the University in the erection and maintenance of a detention hospital for the treatment of the more serious contagious diseases, submitted the following report, which was
adopted by the Board, and the Secretary was directed to
transmit a copy of the same to the Board of Supervisors:
Your committee appointed to confer with a committee of the
Board of Supervisors of Washtenaw County, on the matter of the
establishment of a hospital for the treatment of the more serious
contagious diseases, such as smallpox, diphtheria and scarlet fever,
report as follows:
First: They find that the County Clerk has been ordered by the
Board of Supervisors to submit to the voters of the county at the
spring election the question of issuing $30,000 of bonds, and, with the
proceeds, building a hospital for the treatment of these contagious
diseases. It has been deemed desirable by the Supervisors to learn
upon what basis the University will undertake the care and management of such hospital, and Messrs. Miner and Damon, of the Board
of Supervisors, met with your committee at the office of the County
Clerk for that purpose.
Second: In order to learn what might fairly be asked of the
University in such connection, a joint inspection was made of the
accounts showing expenditures by the county in connection with
contagious diseases, from which it was learned that the annual
expense therefor is at the rate of from $I6,00o to $I8,ooo.




308


JANUARY MEETING, 1904.


It further appeared from a statement prepared by the County
Clerk, that as far as the bills were audited, the proportionate expenses were as follows:
Physicians................................. 6%
N urses.....................................  I7%
Provisions........................         %
Property destroyed......................... %
Drugs and disinfecting.................... 4%
Total..................................100%
Third: Your committee recommend that the University be
authorized to enter into a contract to furnish medical attendance,
light, heat and water for such hospital without cost to the county.
All other expenses connected therewith to be borne by the county.
The University further to supply nurses and medicines at cost, and
board at ordinary hospital rates. This would reduce the expense to
the county on account of contagious diseases at least one-half,
besides furnishing the most enlightened, effective and humane treatment to the patients. As to the University, it would furnish students an opportunity to study these deadly diseases with safety to
themselves (as the patients are viewed through glass partitions),
and with great ultimate benefit in learning to detect and treat these
diseases.
Under such an arrangement, the county should purchase a site
satisfactory to the Uhiversity authorities, and erect the hospital
thereon, under plans to be jointly agreed upon, and convey the property to the University, which on its part, should assume entire
control, under a proper contract, binding it in perpetuity.
It will be observed that it will cost the county only $I,200 per
year, being the interest on $30,000 at 4 per cent. per annum, to
furnish the University with a hospital building, while the University will expend about that sum in supplying light, heat and water,
besides the leading item of medical attendance. Further, there will
be a reduction to the county in the other items of exepnse, such
as nursing, medicines, etc., with an improvement in personnel of
attendance and quality of material.
Dr. Vaughan and Dr. Hinsdale, and Regent Dean were present
during a portion of the conference, and participated in it, and concur
with the committee.
Respectfully submitted,
HENRY W. CAREY,
CHARLES D. LAWTON,
ARTHUR HILL.




JANUARY MEETING, 1904.


309


On motion of Regent Lawton, Mr. Boyden Nims, Ph.G.,
was appointed assistant in Physiological Chemistry, in place
of Geo. F. Richmond, resigned, salary at the rate of $600
per annum, by the full vote of the Board.
On the recommendation of Professor H. C. Adams, and
on motion of Regent Hill, Professor Frank H. Dixon, of
Dartmouth College, was appoinnted to lecture on political
economy in place of Professor Adams, from March I6th to
April I4th, without pay from the University.
On motion of Regent Hill, an appropriation of $375 was
voted, for the purchase of a surveyor's transit, for use at
the Observatory.
On motion of Regent Carey, the degree of Doctor of
Medicine was conferred upon Cecil Jordan, and William
Don Brooks, in accordance with the recommendation of the
Faculty of the Homceppathic Medical College.
Regent Fletcher presented the resignation of Roscoe B.
Jackson, as instructor in Mechanical Engineering, to take
effect February ist. The resignation was accepted by the
Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was directed to pay Roscoe B. Jackson the sum of $II7.50 for
services as Superintendent of the New Engineering Building
during the months of October, November, and December.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the salary of Rembert
Jones (Electrician), was increased from $750 to $850, beginning January ist, I904, by the full vote of the Board.
The question of paying the salary of the employees on
the Campus twice a month, was referred to the Finance
Committee for consideration.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was instructed to have the indemnity bond of Chas. A. Sauer, contractor of the Psychopathic ward, renewed for three months
at the expense of the University.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the Building Committee
were authorized to expend a sum not exceeding $300, in
fitting up a room at University Hospital for X-ray apparatus.
On motion of Regent Dean, Mr. Vernon L. Page was




310


JANUARY MEETING, 1904.


appointed Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing
for the second semester, salary at the rate of $900 per year,
by the full vote of the Board.
The Board took a recess until 2 o'clock p. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock P. M.
On motion of Regent Hill, it was voted that the effort to
unify the Summer Schools be abandoned for the coming
year, unless the President can bring them together on some
plan that will not materially increase the expense to the University.
The Homoeopathic Faculty gave notice that the following persons had completed the course in the Training School
for Nurses, and were recommended for certificates of graduation:
Geneva Allen,          Emma Hassenzahl,
Ida J. Lockhart,       Lizzie Goodwin,
Mattie Wilson,         Bessie Edwards.
Ida Teresa Bogner,
On motion of Regent Carey, the President and Secretary
were authorized to issue the proper certificates of gradu,
ation, and to attach the seal of the University thereto.
Regent Hill presented the University with a deed of
eighty acres of land, located about three miles west of
Ann Arbor, this land to be used for forestry purposes, and to
be known as the Saginaw Forestry Farm.
On motion of Regent Dean, and by a unanimous vote,
the Board accepted the gift, and expressed to Regent Hill
their gratitude for his great generosity to this University.
On motion of Regent Hill, Regents Carey and White
were appointed a special committee to devise a plan of accounting, by which the accounts of the University may be
brought into perfect harmony with the books of the Auditor
General.
On motion of. Regent Barbour, the Chairman of the
Finance Committee was authorized to make minor repairs
on the University property in the City of Omaha, Nebraska.




JANUARY MEETING, 1904.


311 -

Regent Fletcher moved that the Secretary be authorized
to make a contract with the McCray Refrigerator Company,
of Detroit, to build a special cooler at University Hospital,
according to the specifications on file in the Secretary's office,
for the sum of $I,820, and to move the old cooler to the
Psychopathic ward and rebuild the same, for the sum of
$I85. This motion was carried by the full vote of the
Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was authorized to pay Pond & Pond, architects, of Chicago, $500, for
making plans for the enlargement of the Physical Laboratory, provided they furnish the University three sets of
blue-prints, and the specifications, and release the University from all further claims on account of said work.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the p,urchase of an elevator for the Palmer ward, was laid on the table for further
bids.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the proposition of Philip
Christa & Sons, of Detroit, to furnish and set all the marble
work in the New Engineering Building (except such marble
as the University has on hand that can be used), according
to the plans and specifications, for the sum of $1,247, was
accepted by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Professor Pettee was requested to examine the collection of minerals owned by Anne
Gillet Houghton, of Detroit, and report their value to the
Board.
Regent Fletcher moved that the Building Committee get
bids on the necessary equipment for the two upper stories of
the New Engineering Building, and report the same at the
next meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Dean, Professor M. E. Cooley was
made Dean of the Engineering Department, with a salary of
$3,500, and Professor J. B. Davis was made Associate Dean,
with a salary of $2,750, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the bill of the Ridgway
Dynamo and Engine Company of $530.4I for repairs on
engine in lighting plant, was referred to Professor Cooley
for consideration.




312           JANUARY MEETING, 1904.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the estimate of the Buffalo Forge Company of $I,025, for heating the Psychopathic
ward, was laid on the table until the next meeting of the
Board.
On motion the Board adjourned to Friday, February
12th, at o0 o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




FEBRUARY MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, February T2, I904.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at Io o'clock
A. M. Full Board present except Regent Carey.
The Secretary read the minutes off the previous meeting,
which were, on motion of Regent Lawton, approved and
ordered printed.
Communications which had reached the President, were
placed in the hands of the standing committees of the Board
for consideration.
Professor J. O. Reed submitted the following report on
the Summer Session, and on motion o'f Regent Hill, the
report and recommendations were accepted and adopted by
the full vote of the Board:
ANN ARBOR, Mich., February II, 1904.
To the President and Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
G1ENTLEMEN:-The committee charged with the arrangement of
details for the amalgamation of the various Summer Sessions now
conducted in the University of Michigan, in order to effect the
more efficient operation of them under the direction and control of
the Board of Regents, respectfully submit the following recommendations:
I. In the opinion of the committee, it is highly desirable that
the Summer Schools now existing in the Departments of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, of Law, of Medicine and Surgery, and of
Engineering should be under the direction and control of the Board!
of Regents, and it is hereby recommended that they be so operated
and controlled under the title of the Summer Session of the University of Michigan.
2: That the management of the summer work in the Departments of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and of Engineering
remain as at present, in charge of a Chairman and Secretary, appointed by the Board of Regents, and that the work in the Depart



314


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1904.


ments of Law, and of Medicine and Surgery be placed in charge
of the Dean and Secretary of the respective departments.
3. That the compensation of the Chairman, and of each of the
three Secretaries, above mentioned, be fixed at $oo00.00 each for
each Summer Session.
4. In the opinion of the committee, it is especially desirable that
instructors be given the option between a time allowance during
the regular session of the University and financial compensation for
services in the Summer Session; and it is recommended that any
instructor whose yearly salary is $2,500.00, or less, who shall serve
for four Summer Sessions, teaching fifteen hours per week, without
compensation, be allowed a year's leave of absence on full salary,
and that leave of absence for one semester, under the above conditions, be granted for two summers' work. In. all cases the leave of
absence is to be arranged with the President, so as to interfere
as little as possible with the regular work of the University.
5. That the compensation for teaching in the Summer Session
be based on the number of hours taught; that two hours of laboratory work be reckoned as equivalent to one hour of recitation
or lecture work; that one course reciting five times a week during
the Summer Session in the Department of Literature, Science, and
the Arts be counted as 30 hours, and pro rata in other departments.
6. That the compensation for men, of various professional rank
for instruction in the Summer Session be based on the following
schedule:
(a) Instructors whose yearly salary is $2,500.00, or more, to
receive $5.00 per hour, and no such instructor to receive pay for
more than 60 hours' work in any one session.
(b) Instructors whose yearly salary is $2,000.00 to receive $4.00
per hour, and no such instructor to receive pay for more than 60
hours in any one session.
(c) Instructors whose yearly salary is $I,6oo.oo to receive $3.00
per hour, and no such instructor to receive pay for more than 90
hours in any one session.
(d) Instructors whose yearly salary is $I,200.00, or less, to
receive $2.25 per hour, and no such instructor to receive pay for
more than 90 hours in any one session.
7. That a sum not less than that expended in 1903 by the
separate schools for incidental expenses and advertising be set
aside for such purposes for the current year, to be expended under
the direction of a committee consisting of one executive officer from
each department.
8. That each student be required to register in the department
in which the major part of his work is done, and if he desire to




FEBRUARY JMEETING, 1904.


315


take work in another department where the tuition fee is higher,
that he be required to pay an additional fee of $5.00 for each course
elected in such department.
9. That each instructor be required to furnish to the Secretary
of the department, not later than the fifth day of the Summer Session, an official list of all students attending each class taught by
him, and in case a course is not elected by at least five students,
the instructor offering such course may at his option either withdraw the course, or continue to give it, and receive as compensation
therefor 75 per cent. of the fees paid by the students electing such
course.
Io. That the tuition in; the Summer Session be as follows, it
being understood that in all cases where. laboratory or demonstration
fees are required, such fees are to be paid in addition to the regular
tuition fee:
In the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, $I5.00.
In the Department of Law, $25.00 for full work, or $Io.oo for
a single course.
In the Department of Medicine and Surgery, $25.00 for clinical
courses, and $I5.00 for all other courses, this recommendation to
be subject to approval of the Medical Faculty.
II. (a) That a regular budget be made for the Summer Session, and that there be constituted a standing committee of the
Board of Regents on the Summer Session.
(b) That the budget for the present year be fixed as follows:
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts (including  the  work  in  Engineering)......................  $8,830  oo0
Department of Law............................,8oo 00
Department of Medicine and Surgery.................   1,900 00
Contingent Fund.....................................   340 00
Total.............................................  $12,870  00
(c) It is further recommended that for the present year the
pay roll for instruction in the Departnent of Law be $I,375.00, and
that this amount be apportioned among the 'instructors by the Dean
and the Secretary of that department.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN 0. REED,
EDWIN C. GODDARD,
G. CARL HUBER,
H. J. GOULDING,
Committee.




316


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1904.


The President submitted for approval the following list
of persons to give instruction in the Summer Session, and
on motion of Regent Barbour, the list was approved by the
Board, and the President was authorized to make such
changes in the list as may be found necessary.
ISAAC N. DEMMON, LL.D., English Literature.
WOOSTER W. BEMAN, A.M., Mathematics.
ROBERT M. W]NLEY, Sc.D., LL.D., Philosophy.
WILLIAM H. PAYNE, LL.D., D.LITT., Pedagogy.
ALLEN S. WHITNEY, A.B., Pedagogy.
FRED M. TAYLOR, Ph.D., Political Economy.
JOHN 0. REED, Ph.D., Physics.
JOSEPH H. DRAKE, Ph.D., LL.B., Latin.
MORITZ LEVI, A.B., Spanish and Italian.
MosEs GOMBERG, Sc.D., Chemistry.
JOSEPH L. MARKLEY, Ph.D., Mathematics.
GEORGE REBEC, Ph.D., Philosophy.
JOHN R. EFPINGEIR, Ph.D., French.
TOBIAS DIEKHOEF, Ph.D., German.
JAMES W. GLOVER, Ph.D., Mathematics.
CLAUDE H. VAN TYNE, Ph.D., History.
GEORGE O. HIGLEY, M.S., Chemistry.
CLARENCE L. MEADER, Ph.D., Latin.
LOUIS A. STRAUSS, Ph.D., English Literature.
HE;RBERT J. GOULDING, B.S., Drawing.
WARREN W. FLORER, Ph.D., German.
JAMES B. POLLOCK, Sc.D., Botany.
GEORGE A. HULETT, Ph.D;, Chemistry.
JONATHAN A. O. HILDNtR, Ph.D., German.
FREDERICK L. DUNLAP, Sc.D., Chemistry.
WILLIAM MARSHALL, M.S., Mathematics.
HARRISON M. RANDALL, Ph.D., Physics.
JOSEPH M. THOMAS, A.M., Rhetoric.
CLARENCE B. MORRILL, A.M., Rhetoric.
DUANE R. STUART, Ph.D., Greek.
GEORGE P. BURNS, Ph.D., Botany.
WILLIAM G. SMEATON, A.B., Chemistry.
CHARLES C. ADAMS, M.S., Zoology.
ARTHUR W. SMITH,.Ph.D., Physics.
WILLIAM J. HALL, Ph.D., Chemistry.
JOSEPH A. BURSLEY, B.S., Mechanical Engineering.
RICHARD D. T. HOLLISTER, A.B., Elocution.
LIONEL H. DUSCHAK, Chemistry.
CLAYTON T. TvEZL, LL.B., Physical Training.




FE.BR UARY MEETING, 1904.


311


The Secretary called the attention of the Board to the
matter of a mortgage, which had been taken by the Superintendent of University Hospital some years ago, as security
for the expenses of a patient while under treatment. The
land had been sold for taxes, and there only remained ten
days for redemption under the tax sale.
On motion, the matter was referred to Regents White
and Barbour, with power.
The Secretary read a letter from Pond & Pond, architects, of Chicago, in relation to their bill of $500, for making
plans for the enlargement of the Physical Laboratory. On
motion of Regent Barbour, the matter was laid on the table
for another month.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was directed to place curtains on the north and east windows of
the second floor of the Physical Laboratory.
Regent Fletcher presented and read the following communication from  Charles Hoertz, contractor, who was
asked to examine the old Medical Building as to its
safety, and report his conclusions:
"GENTLIMEN:-I carefully examined the old Medical building
on January I2th, and again on February IIth, and during that time
there did not appear to be any change in its condition. In my judgment, the building is as safe for the next six months as it has been
for the past twelve months, and I do not think there is any danger
in occupying the building."
Regent Fletcher read communications from M. J. Murphy, J. S. Gray, and W. P. Halliday, of Detroit, relating to
the erection of the proposed apartment house in Detroit.
The communications were placed on file with the Secretary.
Regent Fletcher presented the proposition of Charles A.
Sauer, to finish the basement of the Psychopathic ward
for kitchen purposes, and on his motion, the contract was
awarded to Mr. Sauer for the sum of $,,543.28, by the full
vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the bill of Philip Carey
Manufacturing Company of $I,494.75, for covering Steam
pipes at Psychopathic ward, was ordered paid.
J. E. Bolles & Co., of Detroit, presented their bill of $430,




318


3FEBRUARY MEETING, 1904.


for putting fire escapes on the Nurses' House at University
Hospital. On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted to
pay them $275, that being the contract price for the work.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted to pay the
Buffalo Forge Company $I,025 for covering steam pipes
in the Palmer ward and Boiler House at University Hospital.
On motion of Regent Dean, Mr. Joseph A. Bursley was
appointed Instructor in Mechanical Engineering, in place of
Roscoe B. Jackson, resigned. Salary at the rate of $900, and
service to begin February ist.
Regent Dean moved that the salary of Professor J. B.
Davis, as Associate Dean for the first semester of the current
year, be fixed at $500, and that the annual salary of $2,750,
as provided at the last meeting of the Board, begin with the
second semester. It was so ordered on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Department of Electrical Engineering were allowed to expend at once, under
the direction of the Auditing Board, the sum of $1,500, as
a part of the sum needed for the equipment of the New Laboratory. Carried on call vote.
On motion of Regent Dean, Mr. George G. Stroebe,
Ph.B., was appointed Assistant in Descriptive Geometry for
the second semester, at a salary of $250 for the semester, by
the full vote of the Board.
Regent Barbour moved that the President and Secretary
be authorized to sell (under the recommendation of the Finance Committee) the real property in the City of Omaha,
Nebraska, belonging to the University, provided an amount
can be obtained equal to, or more, than the value estimated
by Mr. Farr and Mr. Graham. The motion was carried on
a call vote.
Regent Barbour moved that the University print an
edition of 2,000 copies of an address delivered by Professor
I. C. Russell, on "Research in State Universities," at a cost
not exceeding $50, and that the distribution thereof be referred to the President and Mr. Shirley Smith. This motion
was carried by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Hill, an allowance of $50 was made
to put the model of the Calumet and Hecla Mill in better




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1904.


319


order for exhibition at the Louisiana Purchase Exhibit.
The work to be done by the State Commission.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Professors Adams, Taylor, and Jones were requested to make a report to the Board
upon the courses in Commercial Education; this report to
be comprehensive in character, and to include a brief sketch
of the work done up to the present time, and an enumeration
of the special courses of lectures offered, a statement of the
relation which the courses in Higher Commercial Education
sustain to the Department of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and suggestions for the further development and more
perfect organization of the work, having in mind practical
as well as educational aims.
Regent Barbour moved that Regents White and Lawton,
and Professor Pettee be authorized to examine the Houghton
Collection of Minerals in Detroit, and to purchase the same,
if in their judgment it seems best to do so. The motion was
carried by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Fletcher presented the request of certain employees on the Campus for semi-monthly' payment of salaries. No action was taken on this request.
On motion the Board took a recess until 2 o'clock p. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. M., Regent Carey
being present.
Judge C. B. Grant appeared before the Board as a
representative of the Alumni Association, with reference to
a proposed Memorial Hall, in memory of students who died
in the Civil war, and in the Spanish war. The Board
expressed their interest in the matter, and authorized a circular relating thereto to be printed and distributed as a
special edition of the News Letter.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted that the
Secretary purchase one dozen additional fire extinguishers,
for use in the Engineering and other buildings.
Regent Fletcher moved that 57 pieces of marble be purchased from the Detroit Marble Works, as per list furnished,
for use in the New Engineering Building, at a cost of $35.




320


FEBRUARY MEETTIG, 1904.


On motion of Regent Barbour, the Building Committee
were authorized to procure the furniture for the New Engineering Building.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Building Committee
were requested to procure estimates as to the cost of additional fire escapes for University Hall.
Regent Fletcher moved that the Building Committee be
authorized to construct fire escapes from the second story
of the sun rooms at University Hospital. The motion was
carried on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Hill, Miss Ada L. Wickel, and
Mr. Clyde F. Karshner were appointed Assistants in Zoology for the second semester, in place of Jean Dawson, and
Ellis Michael, resigned. Salary for the semester, $75 each.
Regent Hill presented and read the following communication from  the "Michigan State Federation of Women's
Clubs," and transmitting $3,000 as a part of the fund proposed to be raised by the Federation for the establishment
of the "Lucinda Hinsdale Stone Supplementary Loan Scholarship Fund."
On motion of Regent Hill, the gift was accepted, upon
the conditions named in the letter of transmittal, and the
President was requested to transmit to the Federation the
thanks of the Board for their interest in the work of this
L; niversity.
Owosso, Mich., January 14, I904.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN:-The Michigan State Federation of Women's
Clubs desires to give at this time to the University of Michigan the
sum of three thousand dollars, which is only a part of the sum that
this Federation expects to give, to be used for the benefit of women
students in the University.
As President of the State Federation for the present year, it
becomes my pleasant duty to inform you relative to the history of
this "New Year's Gift," for as a Federation of Clubs is not a financial organization, a gift, even of this amount, has a history.
The prime object for which our organization exists, and upon
which its permanency depends, is "for the general advancement
of women." In view of this, and as citizens of Michigan, our members are proud to recall the fact that "for the advancement of
women" our State University was the first institution of its kind




FEBIUUARY MEETING, 1904.


321


to throw wide open its doors to women students. And thrice proud
is the membership of Michigan State Federation of the contribution
made to the intelligence and culture of our State and Nation
through the noble influence of the women graduated from its halls.
In the records of the acts of the Governing Board of the University, it is stated that the first woman upon whom the honorary
degree of Doctor of Philosophy was conferred never was graduated
either from a college or a university; but Lucinda Hinsdale Stone,
for she it was, was a woman who, when university doors were
closed against her sex, because endowed by nature with fine mind
and an indomitable purpose, attained so high an order of scholarship
that the University Board thought it wise and fitting to confer upon
her a degree.
Mrs. Stone's life work was to raise higher the standard of
educated womanhood, and in this memorial gift to our University,
the Michigan State Federation desires through that institution to
honor the memory of the revered founder of the Michigan State
Federation, and also to perpetuate her life work for the higher
education of women through the benefits that may accrue to women
students in the University of Michigan through this gift.
We ask, therefore, that you will accept the gift, first pledged
to the University at the eighth annual meeting of the State Federation, held in Muskegon, October, I902.
At this meeting Mrs. Goodenow, President of the Twentieth
Century Club, of Kalamazoo, Mrs. Stone's own club, was introduced
and outlined the plan of that club for establishing a memorial to
Lucinda Hinsdale Stone, and presented, in behalf of that club, a
nucleus of the sum of one hundred dollars ($Ioo.oo) for a Michigan
University Scholarship, trusting that the State Federation would
carry on the work in some way.
Miss Clara A. Avery, of Detroit, then stated the information
received from the Secretary of the University of Michigan at Ann
Arbor, and moved: "That this generous offer of a nucleus for a
memorial to Mrs. Lucinda Hinsdale Stone, of Kalamazoo, be accepted by the Federation from the Twentieth Century Club of Kalamazoo, and that the individual clubs and club members be requested
to try to complete by subscription the sum of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) for this Scholarship."
Miss Avery's motion was carried, and at the ninth annual
meeting of the State Federation, held in the City of Grand Rapids,
October, 1903, the following resolution was adopted by the convention:
"Resolved, That when three thousand dollars shall be in the
hands of the Treasurer of the fund, she shall turn it over to the




322


2FEBRUARY 2MEET'ING, 1904.


Treasurer of the Michigan State Federation of Women's Clubs, and
the Board of the Michigan State Federation shall forward it at
once to the Regents of the University for investment, the balance
to be paid when the full amount shall be raised."
Today, enclosing to you a draft for the sum of three thousand
dollars, we ask that this sum shall be known by the name, and
administered by you as provided in the following resolution:
"Resolved, That the fund raised by the Michigan State Federation of Women's Clubs, for the Stone Memorial Scholarship, shall
be called The Lucinda Hinsdale Stone Supplementary Loan Scholarship Fund. That it shall be given to the University of Michigan
for the benefit of women who are students in the University; and
that the interest on the amount shall be administered by the President of said University, the Dean of the Women's Department, and
a third person of their.appointment (who shall be a woman)."
Very sincerely,
JOSEPHINE M. GOULD.
Regent Lawton presented communications from Dr.
Vaughan and Dr. Lombard, relating to the condition of the
old Medical Building. No action was taken on them by the
Board.
On motion of Regent Dean, Regent Carey was requested
to consider the feasibility of providing a sprinkler system
for fire purposes in University Hall, and report at a later
meeting.
Regent Fletcher moved that the Secretary contract with
George H. Barnes, of Toledo, for the incandescent fixtures
needed in the New Engineering Building, as per specifications on file with the Secretary, at a cost of $5I5.80. Also
with the Fort Wayne Electric Works for 102 arc lights, at
a cost of $I,496.
It was so ordered on a call vote.
The Ridgway Dynamo and Engine Company presented
a bill of $530.4I for repairs and expressage on broken engine. The bill was referred to Professors Cooley and Allen
for consideration, and they reported that the company agreed
to do the work for actual cost, and in their opinion $349.9I
would be a fair settlement. Regent Fletcher moved that
$349.91 be paid for the work. It was so voted on call.
Regent Knappen made a verbal report on the Seth Harrison Fund, to the effect that both parties are bound by the
terms of the contract.
On motion of Regent Hill, Mr. W. D. Henderson, who
is now doing half work as Assistant in Physics, was em



FEBRUARY MEETING, 1904.


323


ployed as a full assistant, at $60 per month for the remainder of the year, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Hill, the sum of $557 was appropriated for the purpose of beginning work on the "Saginaw
Forestry Farm," according to plans submitted by the Professor of Forestry.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted to purchase
ii radiators and-6 wall coils for University Hospital.
Regent Hill moved that the Scharf Company, of Ypsilanti, be paid $350, on account of smoke consumers placed
on boilers at University Hospital, and that Professor J. R.
Allen be requested to make a scientific test, to determine the
efficiency of the device in the consumption of smoke, and
also in the saving of fuel, if any.
The motion was carried by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Knappen moved that the Building and Finance
Committees be requested to make a report on the cost of the
proposed Apartment House, the expected income, and the
amount by which the General Fund shall be reimbursed for
the lot required for the site. And that the Finance Committee be asked to report on the amounts, nature, and availability of the several trust funds, and the amount necessary
to be reserved to secure the income from the funds while the
house is in the process of erection. Carried by the full vote
of the Board.
On motion the Board adjourned to Friday, March the
IIth, at Io o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




MARCH MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
Ann Arbor, March I I, I904.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at o1 o'clock
A. M.
Full Board present except Regent Carey.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion, approved and ordered printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the standing committees of the Board
for consideration.
Regent Fletcher, Chairman of the Building Committee,
to whom was referred the matter of procuring the furniture
for the new Engineering Building, reported that they had
awarded the contract to the Whitney Furniture Manufacturing Company of Detroit for the sum of $7,500. The action
of the committee was approved by the unanimous vote of the
Board.
The President presented and read the following communication from Mr. Hamilton Carhartt of Detroit, and on
motion the gift was accepted and the President was requested
to transmit to Mr. Carhartt the thanks of the Board:
DETROIT, MICH., March 9, I904.
Thomas C. Trueblood, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
DEAR SIR: Agreeably to your very kind suggestion, it gives me
great pleasure to say that I am quite willing to furnish the fund3
to establish what shall be known as the "Hamilton Carhartt Testimonial, for the honor debaters who represent the University of
Michigan in the contest of the Central Debating League," the
amount to be one hundred and fifty dollars per annum, to be furnished by the loth of March of each year.




326


MARCH MEETING, 1904.


Kindly convey to the President and the Regents my gratification
at being allowed to show, in this small way, my interest in your
splendid institution.
I have the honor to be,
Yours most respectfully,
HAMILTON CARHARTT.
The President stated that, through the courtesy of the
Lufkin Rule Company of Saginaw, the Forestry Department
of the University had received a full set of scale rules both
for leg and board measure, valued at $I5. On motion the
gift was accepted and the President was requested to transmit to the Lufkin Rule Company the thanks of the Board.
The Executive Committee of the Board submitted the
following report of their action during the interim of the
Board, which was, on motion, approved:
ANN ARBOR, February 25, I904.
To the Board of Regents:
The Executive Committee beg leave respectfully to report:
Although it was supposed sufficient provision for the instruction
of the Engineering students in German had been made, it proved
when the semester opened that it was necessary to make one more
section of students and provide teaching. Accordingly, on February
24, we appointed Mr. W. W. Dubee, who had given. full time to
teaching during the first semester and to our satisfaction, to teach
one section for this semester and to receive as compensation one
hundred dollars.
JAMES B. ANGELL,
LEvI L. BARBOUR,
HENRY S. DEAN.
On motion of Regent Hill, an appropriation not exceeding $Too was made for the purpose of securing special lecturers on the Science and Art of Teaching, by the full vote
of the Board.
On motion of Regent Hill, Miss Lura Warner was appointed Assistant in Botany in place of Wesley Bradfield,
resigned. Salary at the rate of $Ioo per year.
On motion of Regent Hill, M\r. W. H. Lightstone was
designated as the holder of the Parke, Davis & Company Fellowship in General Chemistry in place of Mr. O. W.
Voedisch, resigned.




MARCH MEETING, 1904.


327


Regent Barbour presented and read the report of Professors Adams, Taylor and Jones, on the work being done
in Political Economy, with recommendations for the enlargement and improvement of the work.' The matter was
referred to Regent Hill for consideration.
Mr. Miggett, Superintendent of shops, asked, for an
appropriation of $568.50 to enlarge and equip the wood shopin order to accommodate all the students who are obliged
to take work during the next semester; also that another
man be employed in the wood shop at $I.75 per day. On
motion of Regent Dean, both requests were granted on a
call vote.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the degree of Doctor of
Dental Surgery was conferred upon Guy Harry Dillon,
Arthur Finley Rawley and Frank Daniel Segur by the, full
vote of the Board.
The Dental Faculty requested the Board to purchase the
library of the late Doctor Taft. On motion the matter was
laid on the table to be taken up when the budget was considered.
On the'recommendation of Dean Cooley of the Engineering Department, and on motion of Regent Dean, Mr. James
A. Brown was appointed Assistant in Mechanical Engineering in place of L. C. Rogers, resigned. Salary $200 a year.
And Miss Abbie Gates to succeed Miss Belser as steniographer and assistant to the Secretary, at a salary of $500 a
year, both appointments to date from February 29. These
appointments were made on a call vote.
Dr. Reuben Peterson, Professor of Gynecology and Obstetrics, gave notice that Dr..T. S. Burr, Demonstrator,
had severed his connection with the department. He asked
the Board to advance Dr. Charles L. Patton to the position'
of Demonstrator, salary $500oo, and Dr. A. P. Reed to be
first assistant, salary $300, and to appoint Dr. Rolland L.
Parnieter to be second assistant with salary of $200.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the foregoing appointmients iwere made by the full vote of the Board.
The Hon. Delos Fall, Superintendent of Public Instruction, alddressed the Board on the Centralization of the Rural
Schools of the State.




328


MARCH MEETING, 1904.


On motion of Regent Dean, the IBuilding Committee were
authorized to construct fire escapes from the sun rooms at
UTniversity Hospital at a cost not exceeding. $Ioo, by the full
vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted to pay
Charles Itoertz & Son the sum of $2,026.41 for extra work
done on the new Engineering Building.
The Board then took a recess until 2 o'clock P. Ai.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. M., Regent Carey
being present.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted to put metal
treads on the stairs in the new Engineering Building.
Regent Dean presented and read the military order of the
Loyal Legion of the United States, giving a brief history of
the life, death and services of the late Major and Surgeon
Edmund Andrews, a graduate of this University in the class
of I849.
On motion of Regent Dean, the document was placed
with the class history.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted that Charles
A. Sauer, contractor of the Psychopathic Ward, be paid the
sum of $2,000 for extra work done on said building.
Regent Barbour moved that the sum of $500 be added to
the sum already voted for making a University exhibit at
the Louisiana Purchase Exposition at St. Louis. 'It was so
-ordered by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Hill, the President and Secretary
were autthorized to enter into a contract with Mr. Alfred E.
Jennings of Detroit, to accept gifts in the name of the Board
for the erection of an Audlitorium or other btuilding on the
Campus, such building to cost not'less than $250,000.
On motion of Regent Knappen, the degree of Bachelor
of Laws was conferred upon Thomas Addis Lowery and
Benjamin Franklin Brown in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Law.
Regent Knappen submitted the following list of the




MARCH MEETING, I904.


329


Faculty for the Summer Session of the Department of Law,
and on his motion the list was approved by the full Board:
Professors Thomas A. Bogle, Horace L. Wilgus, Harry
M. Bates, Edwin C. Goddard, Junior Professor Joseph M.
Drake, Assistant Professor Frank L. Sage, Mr". John W.
Dwyer, John R. Rood, Edwin R. Sunderland.
On motion of Regent Barbour, a sum not exceeding $40
was appropriated for the purpose of printing the Commencement program, and sending out 20,000 invitations to the
Alunini to attend Commencement exercises.
The President presented and read the following communication from the President of the University Musical
Societv 
ANN ARBOR, March 10, I904.
President James B. Angell, University of Michigan.
DEAR MR. PRE;SIDENT: The rapid development of the University
School of Music and the success of its work have led many of those
interested in it to believe that a closer relation could be established
between it and the University, to the advantage of both institutions.
Will you therefore kindly ask the Board of Regents to appoint a
committee to make a study of the whole matter and report at a
subsequent meeting?
Respectfully,
FRANCIS W. KELSEY,
President of the University Musical Society.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the matter was referred
to Regents Dean, Hill and Carey for consideration and
report.
COn motion of Regent Barbour, it was voted to pay Dr.
J. Korselt for one month's services, $85, from the special
appropriation of $300 made to the Chemical Laboratory for
non-resident lecturers.
On motion of Regent Knappen, the Finance Committee
were authorized to contract with Mr. Holden, a builder in
Detroit, for the erection of two houses on lots owned by the
University in the city of Detroit, and known as the Crane
lots, at a cost not exceeding $I,500 each. It was so ordered
by the unanimous vote of the B iard.
On motion of Regent Carey, die Finance Committee were
authorized to plant fifty trees in front of property owned




330           MARCH MEETING, 1904.
by the University in the Fyfe, Barbour and Warren subdivision of the city of Detroit.
-Regent Lawton, from the committee appointed to examine the Houghton Collection of Minerals in the city of
Detroit, and report as to the desirability of securing the same
for the University, reported. that the committee had examined
the collection and had found so many duplicates that in their
judgment it was unwise to make the purchase.
On motion of Regent Knappen, the Board adjourned to
Thursday, April 14, 1904, at Io o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




APRIL MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
Ann Arbor, April 14, 1904. 
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at Io o'clock
A. M. Full Board present except Regent Hill.
The Secretary read the minutes of the previous meeting,
which were, on motion of Regent White, approved and
ordered printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
referred to the standing conmmittees of the Board for consideration.
By permission,' Dr. Herdman addressed the Board on
matters relating to the opening of the Psychopathic Ward.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Regents Lawton and
Carey and Professors Vaughan and Herdman were authorized to meet the joint Asylum Board and devise a practical
plan for administering the Psychopathic Ward under the
law, and report the same for the approval of the Board.
Professor Demmon reported a gift of $Ioo from the Hon.
W. C. McMillan of Detroit for the purpose of keeping up the
McMillan Shakespeare Library. The gift was accepted and
the President was requested to transmit to Mr. McMillan
the thanks of the Board.
Regent Barbour moved that the sum of $72.20 be appropriated for the purpose of printing and mailing circulars to
the Alumni in relation to a Memorial Building to be erected
on the Campus in memory of the students who died in the
Civil War, and in the Spanish War. The motion was carried bv the full vote of the Board.
The President presented and read the follwing communication from the Professor of Forestry:




332


APRIL MEETING, I904.


ANN ARBOR, March 25, I904.
President James B. Angell, Ann Arbor, Mich.
DE'AR SIR: I beg to report that the Marble Safety Axe Co., of
Gladstone, Mich., has presented to the Forestry Department the
following samples of their goods:
I 24-oz. safety pocket axe.
I I6-oz. wood-handled safety pocket axe.
I belt axe.
I 6-in. hunting knife with sheath.
I 4-in. hunting knife with sheath.
I safety compass.
I water-tight match box.
I pedometer.
I set gun cleaners.
I patent gaff..2 axe sheaths for belt.
In view of the fact that this gift is of considerable importance
in enlarging the equipment of our department, I thought that perhaps
the President's office would like to take official. recognition and
express its feelings in the matter to the company.
Very respectfully,
FILIBERT ROTH.
On motion the President was requested to transmit the
thanks of the Board to the Marble Safety Axe Company of
Gladstone, Michigan, for their generous gift to the equip,
ment of the Department of Forestry.
The President read the following communication from
Professor M. L. D'Ooge:
ANN ARBOR, April I I, I904.
President Angell and the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
GENTrLEMEN: It affords me much pleasure to announce to you
that Mrs. John S. Newberry, of Detroit, has promised to give the sum
of three hundred dollars the ensuing year for the maintenance of a
Fellowship in the Classics, to be awarded by a committee to be
appointed by the President.
While this Fellowship is only a temporary one and no promise
is made for its continuance, I venture to express the hope that it
may be renewed after a year under circumstances similar to those
which prompted the generous donor to bestow this gift for the
coming year.    I have the honor to be,
Yours very truly,
MARTIN L. D'OOGi.




APRIL MEETING, 1904.


333


On motion, this gift was accepted and the President was
requested to convey to Mrs. Newberry the cordial thanks of
the Board for her generous interest in the work of the University.
Regent Lawton moved that the Chairman of the Committee on Buildings and Grounds be authorized to secure
competent inspection of the old Medical Building and report
as to its safety and what, in their judgment, should be done
to make it habitable. The motion was carried by the Board.
Regent W\;hite moved that Theodore W. Koch be appointed Assistant Librarian for one year with a salary of
$2o000, and that Librarian Davis be requested to remain as
Librarian, for the next college year, and thereafter he continue to deliver his course of lectures on Bibliography under
the title of Em'eritus Librarian with a salary of $I,600.
The motion was carried by the unanimous vote of the
Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Instructor D. M. Lichty
was granted leave of absence for the college year of 1904 -1905 for the purpose of going abroad for study, salary to
lapse during his absence.
Regent Barbour presented a communication from a committee of the women students asking the Board to authorize
the redecorating and refurnishing of the women's waiting
room in the main building, and on his motion the matter was
referred to the Auditing Board with power.
On motion of Regent Dean, Regent Barbour was authorized to go to Omaha and look after University property there,
and to dispose of such parts thereof as he shall think best.
Oni motion of Regent Knappen, the Board took a recess
until 2 o'clock p. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. M., Regent Knappen in the chair during the temporary absence of the President.
On motion of Regent Lawton, $75 was appropriated for
increasing the storage capacity of the Anatomical Department, bv the full vote of the Board.




334


APRIL MEETING, I904.


Regent Lawton moved that $600 be appropriated for the
purchase of the Dental Library of the late Dr. Taft, and two
microscopes and one spectroscope belonging to him. The
motion was carried on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was instructed to make a voucher of $92 in favor of the Ridgway
Dynamo and Engine Company, in full settlement of their bill
for repairs on the broken engine at our lighting plant.
Regent Fletcher stated that the McCray Refrigeratqr
Company of Kendallville, Indiana, had completed the cold
storage room at University Hospital in accordance with their
contract, and were now entitled to their pay for said work,
and on his motion it was voted to pay them $I,820 as agreed.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Superintendent of
buildings and grounds was authorized to purchase a carload of lumber for use on the Campus.
Regent Fletcher moved that Pond & Pond, architects of
Chicago, be paid $500 for making plans for the enlargement
of the Physical Laboratory. It was so ordered on a call vote.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the women students were
authorized to take possession of.the tennis courts on the
Campus, west of the Barbour Gymnasium.
Messrs. Hannan and Tufts of Detroit then addressed
the Board in opposition to the University building an apartment house in Detroit.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was directed
to settle with the C. H. Scharf Company at contract rate for
putting smoke burners on the heating plant at University
Hospital.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted that the
Auditing Board have curtains placed on the windows of the
new Engineering Building at a cost not exceeding $716.
The President presented the following communication
from  Professor M. E. Cooley, Dean of the Engineering
Department:
ANN ARBOR, April 14, I904.
President James B. Angell.
D^AR SIR: I have the.honor to report that the Chicago Engi-,neering Alumni, at their annual banquet on Saturday evening, April
2, I904, presented to the University of Michigan for the Department




APRIL MEETING, I904.


335


of Engineering, a portrait in oil of our late Dean, Professor Charles
E. Greene, by Mr. Percy Ives, of Detroit.
The presentation was accompanied by a number of speeches by
alumni and professors, in which all paid high tribute to the memory
of Professor Greene and his work in the University. Numerous
personal reminiscences added much interest to the occasion and
revealed the deep affection in which he was held. A committee was
appointed to draft appropriate resolutions, which are to be engrossed
and transmitted to the family.
It is a matter of interest to record that the money for the portrait was raised among the Chicago Engineering Alumni alone, and
that no subscription exceeded in amount two dollars. Mr. Dwight
B. Cheever, who had charge of the collections, reported the portrait
entirely paid for. Mr. Robert P. Lamont, assisted by Professor
Charles S. Denison, looked after the painting; all working under the
direction of the retiring president, Mr. George R. Brandon. Mr.
John D. Hibbard, 52 Madison Park, was elected to succeed Mr.
Brandon as president.
I beg to suggest the formal acceptance by the Regents of this
portrait of our late Dean, and the adoption of suitable resolutions
in acknowledgment thereof.
Very respectfully,
M. E. COOLEY,
Dean of Engineering Department.
The gift was very gratefully received by the Board, and
the President was requested to transmit to the Engineering
Alumni of Chicago the cordial thanks of the Board for this
evidence of their love for Dean Greene, as well as for their
continued interest in all matters relating to this University.
Regent Knappen moved that J. E. Bolles & Company
of Detroit be paid the sum of $138.90 for putting additional
fire escapes on the nurses' home at University Hospital.
It was so ordered on a call vote.
Regent Lawton presented and read the following communication relating to a Post Graduate course in Porcelain
for Practitioners, given in the Dental Department this year.
To the President and Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
WHEREAS, the Fuculty of the Dental Department have arranged
for a post-graduate course in porcelain, whereby practitioners may
avail themselves of its privileges; therefore, be it




386             APRIL MEETING, I904.
RESOLVED, by the members of the Post-Graduate Course:
First. That we appreciate the efforts in extending such an opportunity to the practitioners in this advanced field of treatment.
Second. That we hope that subsequent privileges may be offered
in advanced lines in our professional work.
(Signed by committee)        FRED W. JOSLIN,
ARTHUR C. RUNYAN.
On motion of Regent Knappen, the Board adjourned to
Wednesday evening, June II, I904, at 7:30 o'clock.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




MAY MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
Ann Arbor, May -II, 1904.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at 7:30 o'clock
P. M.
Present-Regents Hill, Lawton, Dean, Barbour, Fletcher,
and White.
Absent-Regents Carey and Knappen.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Lawton, approved and ordered
printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the standing committees of the Board
for consideration.
Mr. Sim T. Price, Chairman of the St. Louis Alumni
Association, stated to the Board that the Louisiana Purchase
Exposition Company had set apart June 28 as University of
Michigan day. He urged that every Alumnus of the University be invited to be present on that day. He also stated
that if the Board would print 25,000 invitations over the
signature of the President and send them to him, the Alumtli
Association of St. Louis would mail them to every graduate
whose address appears in the General Catalogue.
Regent Barbour moved that 25,000 invitations to the
Alumni be printed, as suggested by Mr. Price, at a cost not
exceeding $40. The motion was carried by the unanimous
vote of the Board.
Professor Roth gave notice that the Forestry Department
had received of Robert Douglas' Sons, Waukegan, I;1., a
shipment of 500 specimens of plant material for the Arboretum of the Saginaw Forestry Farm, of the value of $200.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the President was requested




338


MAY MEETING, 1904.


to convey to Robert Douglas' Sons the thanks of the Board
for their valuable gift to the University.
Professor J. B. Davis asked permission of the Board to
deposit in the General Library a bound copy of the report and
blue prints constituting a record of the St. Clair Flats
Survey. On 'motion the permission asked for was granted.
The President presented and read the resignation of Dr.
Alice G. Snyder as Director of the Barbour Gymnasium,
to take effect October I next. On motion the resignation
was accepted.
On motion of Regent Hill, the Board voted to appoint
Dr. William T. Hale as Instructor in General Chemistry for
one year, salary $9oo, and also authorized the appointment
of,rn assistant, to be named, at a salary not exceeding $300.
Thlese appointments were made to provide for the work of
Instructor D. M. Lichtv, who is away on leave of absence
for the year.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted to pay the
Buffalo Forge Company one-half the contract price for heating and ventilating the new Engineering Building.
Regent Fletcher moved that the bill of the Fort Wayne
Electric Works of $1,183.20 for electric light fixtures in the
new Engineering Building be paid. It was so ordered by the
full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the proposition to install an
elevator in the Palmer Ward was laid on the table for the
present.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Treasurer was directed
to pay James S. Holden $I,500 to apply on his contract for
the erection of two houses on lots belonging to the University in West Detroit.
At the last meeting of the Board, the Chairman of the
Committee on Buildings and 'Grounds was requested to have
the old Medical Building inspected by competent persons
and to report its present condition as to safety and also the
possibilities for.alterations and further use. In compliance
with this request he submitted the following report, which
was accepted and placed on file:




MAY MEETING, I904.


339


DETROIT, MICH., May 9, I904.,
Honorable Board of Regents, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
GENTLEMEN: In compliance with your request, we have made a
careful inspection of the old Medical Building at the University in
Ann Arbor, and beg to submit the following report as to its present
condition and the possibilities for alterations and future use.
For the purposes of this report we have considered 'the east
and west buildings separately. The west building is in a decidedly
bad condition, and although it may be used for a few years without
any material changes, it would be impossible to attempt to reconstruct
the interior and use the old walls, as we are of the opinion that such
alterations in the interior would put the walls in an unsafe condition. In this west building we find that the floors have sagged
quite seriously toward the center, indicating that either the foundations of interior columns have settled or that the connections at the
top of columns have given way in some manner, and if the building
is used in the present condition for any length of time, these matters
should be looked into and the necessary repairs made. In our opinion it would not only be impracticable but very difficult to reconstruct this building so as to make it permanent and up to date, and
we should advise its entire demolition at such time as it cannot
further be used in its present condition. The outside walls form a
mere shell, and if an attempt is made to remove the interior floors
and replace them with new, the walls will be further damaged to
such an extent that they could not be repaired and made a part of
a permanent building. The north and south walls are cracked from
the grade to the roof, indicating that the foundations have settled
at points near where a tunnel has been put through.
The arrangement of heating and ventilation is very bad, and the
present conditions are unsanitary, the foul air being conducted direct
from basement to lecture rooms. The basement is in bad condition
and in need of a new floor.
The roof is much in need of repair, and plastering under the
roof should be entirely replaced.
The arch over the opening in the wall between the east and west
buildings is badly settled and the walls have cracked. We do not
think any serious trouble will result from this, however.
The truss in this wall, supporting the floor timbers of the upper
lecture room, should be examined and properly repaired, as it is
evident that some settlement has taken place at this point.
In the east building the walls and foundations are in much better
condition, in fact such inspection as we have been able to give
indicates that they are in practically as good condition as when




340


3l4MAY MEETING, I904.


erected; the brick work having been thoroughly protected on the
outside, there is no reason to believe that any disintegration has
taken place, and all parts of the work where exposed are found to
be in sound and perfect condition. The interior of this building
may be entirely removed and reconstructed in a modern way and
arranged to suit the future requirements without serious damage to
the walls.
The heights of stories in this building are somewhat less than
they should be, and the lighting is bad, but we believe that it would
be possible to rearrange the floor levels and alter the heights of windows, without seriously affecting the exterior design of the building.
If desired, the interior construction may be left as at present,
in which case some minor repairs would be necessary and a new roof
should-be put on, together with new truss and roof timbers, the old
timbers being badly decayed. A new front porch floor and steps
should be provided, and other exterior repairs made as may be found
necessary.
Arrangements should be made outside of the building for keeping animals, and the basement cleared out and provided with a new
floor, which would greatly improve the sanitary conditions.
Some improved heating and ventilating system    should be
installed.
The walls and general construction of the building are in fairly
good condition, and perfectly safe.
During the course of our investigation we talked over the entire
situation with Professor Lombard and Supt. Reeve, and judging
from their statements as to the future requirements, also bearing in
mind the fact that there is a desire to retain the old east building
for sentimental reasons, we would suggest the following:
IAST BUILDING.
The entire interior construction to be removed and replaced with
modern fireproof construction, with stories increased in height as
much as possible, the walls and partitions arranged to suit the
present requirements, also windows altered to suit the new interior
conditions, the roof construction, front steps and other external parts
of the building properly repaired. in the most permanent manner and
new heating and ventilation installed. The building would then be
in practically as good condition as a new building which might be
erected, and would last an equal number of years.
WEST BUILDING.
Old building to be entirely removed and new building erected
of such arrangement and character as you may desire, possibly with




MAY MEETING, 1904.


341


lecture rooms and laboratories, which would be connected with the
east building, as may be found desirable.
We would suggest that the original design of the east building be
carried out in the exterior of the new west building, so that the result
of the change would be to retain the old original design, to which
there is a sentiment attached, and obtain a building which would be
complete and up to date, with a design which would be uniform in
character and pleasing and perfect as a whole.
We trust that the foregoing report may cover the matter to your
entire satisfaction, and remain,
Yours very respectfully,
FIELD, HINCHMAN & SMITH,
Per F. L. SMITH (Signed)
MARTIN SCHOLL, JR. (Signed)
Regent Barbour moved that Mr. W. T. Graham (who is
acting as the agent of the Board in the care of property belonging to the University in the city of Omaha, Nebraska,)
be authorized to sell the west 46xIIO feet of the Taggert
lot in said city, and also that he be requested to reshingie
'the two houses on the property known as the Manning
property.
The motion was carried by the full vote of the Board.
The Building Committee asked for and obtained permission to demolish the old Winchell building on North University Avenue during the present summer.
Regent Barbour stated that a tax of $60 for grading had
been levied against the north 25 feet of lot 2, block 3, and the
north 25 feet of lot I, in the Campbell addition to the city of
Omaha, the property being a part of the Bates bequest to
the University. He also stated that Crawford & Clark, attorneys, had written that in their opinion this tax was illegal
and could be set aside in the courts, but they would undertake to clear this property of this tax for the sum of $30.
It was voted that Mr. W. T. Graham be authorized to secure
the release of the property from this tax, through Crawford
& Clark, for a sum not exceeding $30.
On motion of Regent Barbour, it was voted to pay Theodore W. Koch $35 for programs illustrating his lecture on
Dante.
The Board then took a recess until 9 o'clock A. M.



