
NOVEMBER MEETING, 1896.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, November i8th, I896. 
The Board assembled in the room of the President at Io
o'clock A. M.
Present —Regents Barbour, Cocker, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher,
and Farr.
Absent-Regents Butterfield and Cook.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Dean, approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry papers which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the Board
for consideration.
Professor W. H. Pettee, who was appointed by the Board
to audit the accounts of the Treasurer and the Secretary, presented and read his report, which was, on motion, accepted
and placed on file.
Regent Barbour moved that H. L. Wilgus, M. S., be
reappointed Acting Professor of Law for one year at a salary
of $2,000, and that Henry C. Adams, Ph. D., be reappointed
Lecturer on the Railroad Problem in the Law Department for
one year without pay, both appointments to date from Oct. i,
last. The motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Victor E. Francois was
reappointed Instructor in French for one year at a salary of
$9oo, and S. D. Townley, M. S., was appointed Instructor of
Astronomy for one year at a salary of $900, both appointments




2


NO VEABER MIEETING, 1896.


dating from Oct. I, last. The motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, James P. Briggs, Ph. C., was
reappointed Pharmacist in the University Hospital for one year
a salary of $600 by the following vote, the appointment dating
from Oct. i last:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
The President submitted the following report of the
action of the Executive Committee, which was approved by
the full vote of the Board.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, November 17, 1896. 
To the Board of Regents:
The Executive Committee beg leave to report that since the last meeting they have appointed Mr. Duane R. Stuart, A. B., a graduate student
here, an Assistant in Latin, without pay.  They took this action owing to
the congested condition of the Latin classes, in which the sections were
unduly large.  Mr. Stuart is to teach one section an hour a day.  They
ask your approval of the appointment.
JAMES B. ANGELL,
W. J. COCKER,
HERMAN KIEFER,
H. S. DEAN,
GEO. A. FARR.
Regent Cocker presented and read the following report
from  the special committee appointed to consider the feasibility of the University doing its own printing.
To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
Your committee have had under consideration the subject referred to
them by you at your last meeting, and beg leave to report that as a result
of their inquiries they are led to believe that, if the University owned and
operated a press adequate for all of its work, the present expense of its
printing, $3,500.00 per annum, would be increased rather than diminishedIn what way more extended and more minute inquiries would affect this
belief on their part they are, of course, unable to foresee.  On this account
the report now submitted might, if the Board desires, be considered a
report of progress. Very respectfully,
R. C. IAVIS,
ISAAC N. DEMMON,
WILLIAM H. PETTEE.




NOVEMBER MEETIANG, 1896.


3


On motion of Regent Fletcher the report was laid on the
table.
Regent Cocker presented the following communication
from the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN-I have the honor to communicate to you the following
resolutions, which the Faculty desires you to sanction.
Respectfully submitted.             P. R. DE PONT, Registrar.
FIRST RESOLUTION.
The Faculty recommends that Paragraph I, under the heading "The
Doctor's Degrees," as printed on page 1I9 of the Calendar for I895-96, be
amended to read as follows:
"The Degree of Doctor of Philosophy is open to all persons who have
received a Bachelor's Degree. Those persons, however, who pursue studies
along scientific lines may, at their option, receive the degree of Doctor of
Science, but no student will be accepted as a candidate for the doctor's
degree who has not a knowledge of French and German sufficient for the
purposes of research."
SECOND RESOLUTION.
The Faculty recommends:
I. That the requirements in French and German for the B. L. degree
be changed so as to read as follows:
IN FRENCH: (a) for those who entered withoiut French, I6 hours, including
Courses I, 2; or (b) for those who entered with French, eight hours
of advanced work.
IN GERMAN: (a) for those who entered witouzt German, sixteen hours,
including Course I and options in Courses 2, 3, 4; or (6) for those
who entered with German, eight hours taken from options in Courses
3, 4.
II. That the four groups of requirements for admission be published
in the Calendar without anything to indicate that any particular group is
prescibed for any particular degree in the University.
III. That a student who has satisfied the requirements for admission
in any one of the four groups be regarded as a member of this Department of the University in full standing, with the privilege of working for
any degree whose requirements he may desire to complete.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the Board concurred in
the recommendations of the Faculty by a unanimous vote.
Regent Barbour submitted the following communication
from the Faculty of the Department of Law.
ANN ARBOR, November 17, 1896.
To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN:-The candidates named below, having passed all the




4


VNOVEMBER AMEETINVG, i896.


required examinations, are respectfully recommended by the Faculty of the
Department of Law for the Degree of Bachelor of Laws:
John Benjamin Archer,
George Halbash Clementson,
Ephraim Frost,
George Patterson Kelly,
Weed Thorington Starkweather.
For the Faculty,
H. B. HUTCHINS, Dean.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the degrees were conferred upon the persons named in the foregoing communication in accordance with the recommendations of the Faculty.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following communication from the Faculty of the Department of Law.
ANN ARBOR, November 19, I896.
To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN:-It is necessary to make immediate provision in the Law
Library for the books that have been purchased with the Buhl Bequest.
Four new cases like those now in the Library should be provided. I submit
herewith a bid from Luick Brothers of $29.40 for each case.
A large part of the new purchase is of foreign books, and after they
are in it will be necessary to rearrange and classify our foreign collectionl
It seems desirable to the Law Faculty that the Law Librarian before attempting this work, should visit the State Library at Lansing, and learn as to the
method of arrangement and classification in use there; and I am requested
by the Faculty to ask that the Board authorize such a visit.
Respectfully submitted,
H. B. HUTCHINS, Dean.
Regent Barbour moved that the Auditing Board be authorized to accept the bid of Luick Bros. for four cases, and that
the Law Librarian be authorized to visit the State Library at
Lansing for the purpose stated in the communication.         The
motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
Regent Barbour read a communication from the Faculty
of the Law Department setting forth the necessity for more
lecture rooms in order that the classes may be properly cared
for.  The communication was referred to the Committee on
Buildings and Grounds, and the Committee on the Law Department, jointly for consideration.




NO VEMABiR MEETING, ig96.


5


The   following   communication     from   Professor F. W.
Kelsey was read by Regent Barbour:
ANN ARBOR, November I6, 1896.
James B. Angell, LL. D., President, University of Michigan:
DEAR DR. ANGELL:-Would it not be well to ask the Board of
Regents to make formal acknowledgment of the following gifts to the
University:
I. Of the gift of AMr. James E. Scripps to t/he Library. The great
value of this gift lies not only in the cost of the collection, but also in the
fact, that, owing to the long term of years over which the publications presented extend, and the small size of the editions, complete sets are coming to
be more and more difficult to procure and will soon be impossible to secure
at any price. In case it should seem desirable to have a list of the publications printed in the minutes, I enclose a copy.
II. Of the Graduate Fellows/zip, presenzted this year by Mr. Frank D.
Bennett, of Jackson. The holder of the Fellowship, named by the donor,
is William I)exter McKenzie, a graduate from the classical course of the
University of Michigan in I896.
Yours truly,
FRANCIS W. KELSEY.
PUBLICATIONS OF THE GERMAN ARCHAEOLOGICAL INSTITUTE PRE
SENTED TO THE LIBRARY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN BY MR.
JAMES E. SCRIPPS, OF DETROIT, OCTOBER, 1896.
I. Monuments (Monumenti Inediti). Large Plates. Complete Set,
1829-1885, and supplement, I89I.
2. Annals (Annali). Complete Set, 1829-1885.
3. Bulletin (Bullettino). Complete set, 1829-1885.
4. Repertorio Universale. Complete set (six volumes).
5. Memoirs (Memorie, Rome 1832. Nuove Memorie, Leipzig, I865 -I868). All published.
6. Supplement to the Corpus of Latin Inscriptions (Ephemeris Epigraphica). Complete so far as published.
7. Reliefs of Etruscan cinerary urns.  Plates complete so far as
published.
8. Three single volumes by Henzen, Kellermann, and Schoene.
On motion of Regent Barbour the President was requested
to  convey the   grateful acknowledgments of the        Board   to
James E. Scripps, of Detroit, and to Frank D. Bennett, of
Jackson, for their valuable gifts to the University,
Professor McMurrich asked the Board to authorize him
to visit various sections of the State with a view of securing a
better observance of the Anatomical Law.




6


NOVEMBER MEETING, s896.


Regent Kiefer moved that the request be granted, and
that $50 be appropriated for the purpose of defraying the necessary expenses of such trip.
The motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
At the request of Dr. Vaughan, and on motion of Regent
Kiefer, the Auditing Board were authorized to employ a
student to clean test-tubes and other apparatus in the Hygienic
Laboratory, at a cost not exceeding twelve and one-half cents
per hour, the amount to be charged to the Budget Fund of
that Department.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the Committee on Buildings
and Grounds were requested to furnish an estimate of the
probable cost of constructing a sun-room two stories high on
the south end of University Hospital, and also to furnish an
estimate of the cost of putting an elevator in each of the
Hospital Buildings.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Regent Kiefer and Superintendent Reeve were requested to visit the Asylum at Pontiac
and inspect the sun-rooms of that institution with a view of
ascertaining their cost and method of construction.
On motion of Regent Barbour, J. B. Johnston, Ph. B., was
reappointed Assistant in the Zoological Laboratory for one
year at a salary of $300 by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion the Board took a recess until 2:00 o'clock
p. m.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2:00 o'clock p. m., Regent
Cook being present.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the appointment of a Superintendent of the University Hospital to fill a vacancy caused
by the death of Superintendent Joseph Clark was deferred until
the next meeting of the Board.




NO VEAIBER ML'ETING, i896.


7


Regent Kiefer moved that the Auditing Board be authorized to put electric lights in the Clinical Laboratory of the
Dental Department at a cost not exceeding $60. And that a
uniform Laboratory fee of $3.00 per year be charged each
student for material, apparatus, and appliances used.
This motion was carried by the unanimous vote of the
Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Director of the Gymnasium was requested to furnish the Board at their next meeting a detailed report of work done in his department.
Regent Fletcher submitted the following resolution which
was adopted:
Resolved, That when appropriations are made in the Budget or otherwise, for repairs or changes in any of the University buildings, heads of
departments will not be allowed to make contracts with outside persons for
doing the work, but all such work must be done under the direction and
supervision of the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds was instructed to remove the waterclosets in the old Boiler House and use the space for storage.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Engineer was directed
to enlarge the gas mains in the Chemical Laboratory and in
the Medical Building.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds was directed to remove the wooden
conduit from the Boiler House to the University Hospital
and replace it with brick.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Committee on Buildings and Grounds were requested to procure bids on a ioohorse-power boiler for use at the Hospitals, and report at the
next meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Board of Control of
Athletics were authorized to send a delegate to Chicago to
confer with other colleges in regard to revising the rules governing athletics.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Superintendent of




8


NOVEMABER MEETING, i896.


Buildings and Grounds was directed to remove the Arc lights
from the Women's Building, and replace them with incandescent lights.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts were requested
to consider the advisability of giving credit for work done in
the Gymnasium, and also of making work in the Gymnasium
compulsory, and report at the next meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the salary of A. H.
Thomas, plumber, was fixed at $650, to take effect January I,
I897, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regent Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher an appropriation of $25
was made to pay the rental of a Piano for use in the Women's
Building, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was instructed to pay John Scott & Co. $500, on account of plans
for the Women's Building, and also $75 for services as architect of the office building at the Hospital. The vote on the
motion was as follows;
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher. and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was instructed to remit to Dr. Donald Maclean, of Detroit, $4, in
payment for services rendered in cutting the noxious weeds on
property adjacent to his and owned by the University.
Regent Barbour moved that the Secretary be authorized
to purchase one dozen fire extinguishers, like those now in
use on the campus at a cost of '$oo.
The vote on Regent Barbour's motion was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.




NAO VIE'-lIBER'L AiEEt7YNG,,896.


(-)


On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds was authorized to purchase a pair of
bob-sleighs at a cost not exceeding $30, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, I.ean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays ---None.
On motion of Regent Barbour, John B. Tingle, Ph. D.,
was permitted to work in the Chemical Laboratory with the
title of Assistant but without pay, and to be relieved from the
pay7ment of University fees.
Regent Cook moved that Dr. 0. R. Long be reappointed
Lecturer on Mental Diseases in the Homceopathic College;
that two additional nurses be admitted to the Training
School for Nurses, if, in the judgment of the Faculty, it is
found to be necessary; and that a sum not exceeding $60 be
expended for furniture for the private rooms in the Hospital.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Aves-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None. Regent Kiefer not voting.
Regent Cocker offered the following resolution which was
adopted:
Resolved, 'hat the Secretary be authorized to sell eight microscopes
at a price of not less than twenty-five dollars each, and to purchase new
ones with the proceeds of such sale.
The Secretary asked that a committee of the Board be
appointed to examine the line of insurance carried on University property.
On motion of Regent ook,    egents   an, Fletcher, and
Barbour were namaed as such co!mmittee.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Auditing Board were
authorized to print and furnish the Professor of Philosophy
such examination papers as he may desire for use in the class
r Oomll.
Regent Fletcher moved that the Auditing Board be authorized to purchase from time to time such material as may be
needed for putting the steam heating into the Women's Build



10            NA')0 IIEZJBER MJEILA7'lNG, i896.
ing, and that our own men proceed with the work as time and
opportunity may offer.
It was ordered by the following vote:
Ayes —Regents Barl-our, Cocker, Cook, I)ean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion the Board adjourned to Monday, I)eceimler
I6, at IO o'clock a. m.
JAMES H. WAI)E,
SECRE'IARY.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1896.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,  )
ANN, ARBOR, December I6th, I896. t
The Board assembled in the room of the President at io
o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer,
Fletcher, Butterfield, and Farr.
Absent None.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Dean, approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry papers which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the Board
for consideration.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the Board went into Executive Session, after which a recess was taken until 2: 00
o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
Professor Greene had a conference with the Board on
matters relating to the Engineering Department.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the Auditing Board were
authorized to pay Professor Pettee $50, for services in auditing
the accounts of the Treasurer and Secretary, by the following
vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Butterfield.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Cocker, it was voted that the $Ioo
paid by the ladies for the use of the Gymnasium, to give a




12


DECEMBER MIEETING, i896.


Leap-year party, be placed to the credit of the fund for the
Women's Building.
Regent Barbour presented the request of Professor Russell for an appropriation of $50, for the purchase of illustrative
material for the work in Geology.    The request was referred
to the Finance Committee.
Regent Barbour submitted the following resolution which
was adopted:
Whereas it appears in the printed proceedings of the Board, for the
meeting of October, I895, page 528, that the name of
Frederick Lyle Searing
was omitted, by oversight, from the list of persons on whom the degree of
Bachelor of Arts was conferred, therefore
Resolved, that the minutes of that meeting be corrected by the addition
of Mr. Searing's name after the name of Miss Faulds, on the page mentioned.
Regent Butterfield moved that an appropriation of $6I
be made for additional lights in the reading room of the
Library, and $ioo for book cases to be placed in the east room
of the Library building. And that the question of removing the
statues from  this room, be referred to the Library Committee
of the Board.
The motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, and Farr.
Nays-None.
Regent Farr submitted a resolution to regulate the charges
made by professors in the University, for making analyses for
citizens of the state.   The resolution was referred to the
Pharmaceutical Committee of the Board for consideration.
Regent Fletcher moved that the Board accept the proposition of the Detroit Free Press Co., to give the University a
full-page article illustrated in the holiday number of their
paper, and also to furnish Iooo copies of the paper, for the
sum of $225; and that Mr. Ottaway or some other good man
be sent here to prepare the matter for said article, which must
be satisfactory to President Angell before being printed.




DECEMBER MEETING, i986.


13


The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, and Farr.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer from the committee appointed by the
Board to visit the Pontiac Asylum and inspect the sun rooms
of that institution, reported that the committee had performed
in part the duty assigned to them by the Board, but as that
institution has never had a sun room, they were unable to
make the required inspection.
The Hospital committee of University Hospital reported
that the following named persons had completed the prescribed
course in the Training School for Nurses, and were recommended for a certificate of graduation:
Charlotte Merle Pearce,
Viola Bell Hess,
Blanche M. Tibbets.
On motion of Regent Kiefer it was ordered that the
proper certificates be issued, signed by the President and the
Secretary, and the seal of the University attached.
Regent Kiefer moved that Harry W. Clark be continued
for this college year as superintendent of University Hospital.
After some discussions, Regent Barbour moved that action be
deferred for one month, and that the salary of Mr. Clark be
fixed at the rate of $Iooo per year.
Regent Barbour's motion was carried.
Regent Butterfield read a communication from the Dean
of the Law Faculty, calling the attention of the Board to the
fact, that more room for the work of the Law Department
would be an urgent necessity next year. The communication
was referred to the Law Committee and the Building Coinmittee jointly for consideration.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, Charles T. Lawton
was appointed Clerk of the Practice Court in the Law department for one year, with a salary of $Soo, by the following
vote:




14


DECEMBER MEETING, 1896.


Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, and Farr.
Nays-None.
Regent Cook presented and read a communication from
Dr. D. A. MacLachlan and others in relation to the removal of
the Hotnceopathic Medical College to Detroit. On motion
the matter was referred to the Law   Committee, and the
Homoeopathic Committee for consideration.
On motion of Regent Cook, the President was requested
to transmit the thanks of the Board to Ferdinand W. Peck, of
Chicago, for his liberal guarantees to the Northern Oratorical
League, and the Central Debating League, in both of which
the University is greatly interested.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, Regents Kiefer and
Barbour were requested to examine the present Anatomical
Law, and to suggest such changes as will, in their judgment,
provide more anatomical material for use in the University.
Regent Fletcher submitted sketch plans of a sun room for
the University Hospital within estimated cost of $I4I7. No
action was taken.
Regent Fletcher reported that the A. Harvey & Sons
Manufacturing Company would put elevators in the Hospitals
at a cost of $665 each, exclusive of the well for the pistons.
No action was taken on this matter.
Regent Fletcher presented the request of the Faculty of
the Ann Arbor High School, asking that their students be permitted the use of the Gyinnasium on the same conditions that
University students are admitted.  The request was laid on
the table.
Regent Farr moved that a refrigerator, costing $50, be
purchased for the use of the Homceopathic Hospital. The
motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Fletcher, Butterfield,
and Farr.
Regent Kiefer not voting.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1896.


15


Regent Fletcher presented and read the following report
of the director of the Gymnasium:
REPORT OF THE GYMNASIUM DIRECTOR.
The Gymnasium was first opened for exercise November I8, I394. The
880 lockers were soon rented, and more were gotten from time to time until
now there are 1,240.
Regular classes were begun on the opening day. It has been the
purpose of the director to make this part of the work so simple, so beneficial,
and so popular, that it would gain and keep the interest of the largest
possible number of students. The system taught is made up of the best
exercises of all systems, classified and adapted to the American character
and temperament by the veteran teacher, Robert I. Roberts, of Boston.
The class work has been, from the first, a great success. Practically
every one takes it, and, in point of numbers, no such classes have ever
before been seen in this country. Mr. Roberts, who has taught for twentyfive years, has never seen more than 150 men in a class, yet the classes here
have averaged more than that, and frequently they numbered more than
200. Classes of 225 were seen more than once in the Waterman gymnaseum in I894-95.
The physical examinations were begun November I, I894. They
were made as simple as possible, without interfering with their effectiveness,
so that the director would be free to give as much as possible of his time to
the actual work on the floor.  No measurements were taken for their
abstract or scientific value. No measurement was taken where it was
impossible to hope for an alteration. The taking of measurements which
are of no value to the person measured, but which are supposed to have a
purely scientific value has been done for a long time, and it is certainly
true that enough have already been taken to form a basis for all necessary
scientific deductions. For this purpose 40,000 or 50,000 measurements are
as good as,000,000o. The measurements taken by Dr. Seaver, of Yale, are
free to any one to serve as data for any other purpose, and Dr. Hitchcock,
of Amherst, has, within a few years, given to the world his measurements of
Amherst students, extending over a period of twenty years. It is simply
stating the truth to say that from this labor of nearly a quarter of a century
not a single fact of scientific interest has been deduced.
In 1894-95, 820 examinations were made. Of these, 644 were of men
and 176 were of women, the latter made by Dr. Annie Ives. A sample of
the simple card used that year is submitted. It was found possible to
make the examinations of benefit to the medical department by allowing a number of medical students to assist at them. This is done every
year.
In 1894-95 the Board of Control passed the important rule that no
student should be a member of any University team who had not been
pronounced physically sound by the director of the Gymnasium. In this




DECEMBER MEETING, 896.


year, also, was begun the annual competition for all-round excellence in
gymnastics. The prize, a silver cup, given by members of the Faculty, was
won at the first competition by Rudolph F. Flintermann, of Detroit.
The total membership of the Gymnasium in 1894-95 was about 1,500,
of which about 1,250 were men and about 250 were women. The average
daily attendance was between 400 and 500. The number of lockers rented
was 1,082. Of course the difference between the number of lockers rented
and the total membership is explained by the fact that many of the
lockers were used by more than one person.
In 1895-96 the total membership was about the same as in 1894-95.
This means a considerable increase in the number of men, as there was a
decrease of about Ioo in the number of women, owing principally to the
difficulty of taking gymnasium  work during the morning hours. The
classes were slightly smaller, due, I think, not to any failure of real interest,
but to the fact that after the first enthusiasm aroused by the new gymnasium had somewhat subsided, the students found it advisable to systematize
their work, to come, perhaps, fewer hours in the week, and to give a fair
amount of time to their special needs. The number of lockers rented was
1,182, an increase of Ioo. The number of examinations made was 449, of
which 352 were of men and 97 were of women.
It is as yet too early to give any definite figures regarding the work of
I896-97.  It is certain, however, that owing to the enforcement of the rule
concerning the use of lockers, there will be a falling off in the membership
of between 200 and 300. It seems incredible that the small fee charged
could make this difference, but such is the case.
Owing to the fact that there was no such rule previous to this year, it
is impossible to give the Board any figures as to the proportion of the
attendance by class or department. The attempt has been made to get
these figures this year, and they will be given to the Board in a future
report.
As to the relation of the director to athletics. He has had a certain
supervision and control of all forms, excepting Base Ball, until the present
year. His assistant in the gymnasium trained the Foot Ball and Track
teams, accompanied them on their trips, and carried out whatever suggestions were given him by the director. The present assistant was the choice
of Mr. Fitzpatrick and myself, after having considered all the candidates,
and having in mind all the duties he would be expected to perform. It would
seem that we were in the best position to judge as to his fitness, and that
our choice would have been gladly accepted by the students. They saw fit,
however, to go to the expense of engaging a special trainer for the Foot
Ball team, and by so doing took all supervision of it and all responsibility
for it out of the hands of the director.
The generous allowance for the gynasium made by the Board has
enabled the director to keep the apparatus in repair and to add to it from
time to time as seemed advisable. The present needs of the gymnasium
are increased bathing facilities, gas in locker rooms, and a swimming bath.




DECEJiBER MEETING, i896.


17


The last would be of especial value in Ann Arbor, owing to the present lack
of any suitable place for swimming.
RECAPITULATION.
1894-95.
Total membership --- —-.. --- —-.. -_.  _,500
Average daily attendance --- —--- ----------- 450
Number of examinations. -                 820
Number of lockers rented.. ---           I,082
Number of classes daily _ ---. ---.  -—. ___._  5
I895-96.
Total membership ---. ----- --— _  - I 500
Average daily attendance —   ----— _     400
Number of examinations- -_               449
Numbers of lockers rented- -_  -    _ _ I,I 82
Number of classes daily --—. _ _ __ __    5
JAS. B. FITZGERALD, Director of the Gymnasium.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the Auditing Board was
instructed to pay Judge B. F. Graves $300, for services rendered in the Lewis Will case, and the case of the removal of
the Homoeopathic College, by the following vote:
Ayes —Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, and Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Auditing Board was
authorized to employ a woman one day in each week to aid
the janitor of the main building, in order that the laboratories
may have better care.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds was instructed to put four ventilators
in the ceiling of the dental operating room.
On motion of Regent Cook, it was voted that the expense
of doing the laundry work at the hospitals be apportioned
pro rata between the two hospitals according to the amount
of work done for each, and that the Superintendent of the
University Hospital render the accounts monthly to the Treasurer.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds was instructed to remove from the east




18


DECEAMBER MEETING, i896.


room of the Library Building as many of the large statues as
can be accommodated in the Faculty room.
Regent Barbour moved that the Instructor in Forging, and
the Instructor in Moulding, be paid at the rate of $675 per
year each, beginning on the first day of October last.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butteroeld, and Farr.
Nays-None.
Regent Cook moved that the following appropriations be
made for the Hoimeopathic Hospital:
$50 for the establishment of a Pharmacological Laboratory,
$Ioo for printing and mailing a special bulletin of the department, and $Ioo for the maintenance of Obstetrical Cases in
the Hospital.
The vote on this motion was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Fletcher, Butterfield,
and Farr.
Nays-None. Regent Kiefer not voting.
On motion the Board adjourned to Thursday, January
21, I897, at Io o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




JANUARY MEETING, 1897.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, )
ANN ARBOR, January 27, 1897. 
The Board assembled in the room of the President at o1
o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer,
Fletcher, and Butterfield.
Absent-Regent Farr.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Dean, approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry papers which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the Board
for consideration.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the Board went into
executive session.
Regent Butterfield, chairman of the special committee
appointed at the last meeting, to whom was referred for
consideration the communication of Dr. D. A. MacLachlan
and others in relation to the removal of the Homeopathic
Medical College to Detroit, submitted the following report:
REPORT.
At a meeting of the Board of Regents, held December
i6, I896, there was presented to it the following petition:
To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of
Michigan:
"Whereas, the Supreme Court has established the valid"ity of the Act to remove the Homeopathic Medical College
"to the city of Detroit (Senate Bill No. 455 of the Public




20


JANUARY MIEETING, 1897.


"Acts of the State of Michigan, 1895), and whereas, the profession is favorable to the said removal as therein provided,
"and is practically unanimous in this desire as shown by the
"accompanying resolutions addressed to the President of the
"State Society, and signed by the leading Homeopathic phy"sicians of the State:
"Therefore, we, the Board of Control of the Homeo"pathic Medical Society of the State of Michigan, do hereby
"urgently request your Honorable Board to take such action
"at your next meeting, as in your wisdom      seems best, and
"report the same to us at an early date."
Attached to the above petition were several documents
similiar in character, signed by seventy persons and addressed
to the President of that Association, a former member of the
faculty of the Homeopathic College. In these documents the
subscribers urged the Board of Regents to remove the college
and pledged themselves to use their personal influence to
accomplish the result.
The method by which this personal influence is to be
utilized is apparent from   a circular circulated through the
mail, and which is as fellows:
" DEAR DOCTOR-Four years ago an attempt was made to 'amalga"mate' the Allopathic and Homeopathic departments of the University, that
"resulted in very nearly wrecking our College, and two years ago a bill was
"introduced at Lansing to abolish the College. Thereafter, at the request
"of the Homeopathic profession, the legislature enacted 'That the Board of
"'Regents of the University of Michigan are hereby authorized and directed
"'TO ESTABLISH A HOMEOPATHIC MEDICAL COILLEGE as a branch or de"'partment of said University, which shall be LOCATEI IN THE CITY OF
"'DETROIT.' It also directed the Regents to discontinue the chairs at Ann
"Arbor, and transfer them to Detroit, appropriated $25,00ooo for building
"and equipment, the profession agreeing to provide a site, and the trustees
"offering the use of Grace Hospital.
" In due time the bill was declared constitutional, the site was tendered
"the Regents, and they were urged to comply with the law. They refused.
"Homeopaths asked for a mandamus to compel them, and the Supreme
"Court ruled that the Regents might obey the law or not, as they chose.
"The College is still in Ann Arbor, with a reported total of 42 students.




JANUARY MEETING, I897.


21


"The Legislature convenes January Ist, and Homeopaths must be up
"and doing, if they finally secure what they undertook two years ago, viz:
"to rectify the fatal error made 20 years ago in locating the College at Ann
" Arbor. While they are about it they should go further and place it beyond
"the power of the Regents to hamper or suppress the College. As is well
"known, a 'rider' upon the University appropriation bill is the only and a
"certain means to enforce compliance with the law, and to secure the wish
"of the Legislature and the profession. Two years ago the legislators said:
"'Whatever Homeopaths agree upon, they shall have,' and they were true
"to their word. The profession were a practical unit in asking for the
"removal bill and the Legislature equally a unit in granting it. The situa"tion is the same now. If every Homeopathic physician will give prompt
"and affirmative answers to the questions on the enclosed postal card, the
"work of seeing that the removal bill is complied with is as good as done.
"The members of the profession in eight of the chief cities of Michi"gan have already pledged themselves to this end, only one having declined
"the request to sign. Taking this as an indication of the sentiment through"out the State, a unanimity greater even than two years ago seems likely
"to prevail. The request is again made to each and all members of the
"State profession, and it is hoped that not one will failto respond cordially
"and at once. If so, a new era will dawn upon Homeopathy in Michigan.
"Fraternally and truly yours,
"D. A. MACLACHLAN,
"President State Society.
"P. S. —It is thought best to have a joint committee, comprising the
"Board of Control of the State Society, and one for the whole profession.
"*    *    *    *    *    If names suggested on the enclosed postal
"don't suit, erase and insert the names you wish."
Your committee appointed to consider the question involved in the above documents would respectfully report as
follows:
From the best information at hand, we believe there are
in the State of Michigan about five hundred Homeopathic
physicians.   Under the circumstances your committee can
scarcely be expected to accept a petition signed by seventy
persons as evidence of the unanimity of the entire profession
of the State.  But whether the petition represents a majority
or a minority, it demands and is entitled to receive a fair and
frank answer, and, in discussing the question, we shall con



22


JANUARY MEETING, i897.


sider not only the statements in the petition, but those in the
circular accompanying the same.
I. The first statement in the circular is that four years
ago an attempt was made to " amalgamate" the Allopathic
and Hoineopathic departments of the University, and that it
resulted in nearly wrecking the Homeopathic College. The
facts are as follows:
About the time mentioned the then Dean of the Homeopathic Department suggested to the Board a plan by which
there should be one Medical School in the University to be
known as the Medical School of the University of Michigan.
That in that school both schools should be represented by
professors as to the chairs where the teachings were diverse.
That all students should be permitted or obliged to hear both
sides, be graduated as students of the Medical College of the
University of Michigan, and be left perfectly free to adopt
after their graduation the practice of either school as they
preferred.
After consideration the Board decided that so radical a
change should not be made without action of the Legislature,
as the Homeopathic school was dependent upon special legislation, and thus, so far as the Board was concerned, the matter ended, and the gentleman who made the suggestion has
since ceased to be a member of the Faculty, not, however, for
that reason. In the opinion of your committee, the personal
rivalries and dissensions which divided the Homeopathic
Faculty at that time, and which paralyzed its efficiency, had
a great deal more to do with the falling off in the attendance
of the Homeopathic College than the discussion of this resolution.
2. A second statement is that two years ago a bill 'was
introduced at Lansing to abolish the Homeopathic College.
Your commlittee have no present means of verifying this statement, but they are certain that no such action was ever taken
or approved by this Board. Nor had the Board any information on the subject, nor is it in any way responsible for it.




JANUARY MEETING, 1897.


23


3. The statement is made that the Board refused to
comply with the law. At the last session of the Legislature
of this State an Act, No. 257, Public Acts I895, was passed,
directing this Board to remove the Homeopathic College to
Detroit on condition that prior to such removal a suitable site
for the location of the buildings of such department should
be donated to the State in fee simple, and on the further condition that an arrangement be made with Grace Hospital for
the use of the same on such terms as to the Regents shall seem
appropriate, without expense to the State.  As the Board was
advised by its counsel, and as was apparent from the Act
itself, it was not only not the duty of the Board, but it had no
right, to take a single step until the conditions were complied
with, and it could not do this without being in danger of a
claim being made that the conditions had been waived. That
these conditions were exceedingly important is apparent, and
that bv the force of the Act itself the duty was laid upon
the Board of not removing the department until they were
complied with is also apparent, and yet these conditions have
not been complied with, nor has either of them. No site has
been procured or offered to the Board of Regents, nor have
the Board had any assurance that any fund existed anywhere
with which such site could be purchased. No arrangement
has been made or suggested, or offered to be made, whereby
the use of Grace Hospital free for a Homeopathic College
could be secured. It has been well known that for many
years Grace Hospital has run behind in its expenses, and in
order that the Board might be safe, and the people of the
State might be safe, in incurring the expense incident to the
removal of the Homeopathic Medical School to Detroit, some
guaranty should be given that the hospital would be sustained
in the future without expense to the people of the State. Not
only has this not been done, but, so far as your committee are
advised, no action whatever has been taken to secure that end.
Suggestions and applications have been indeed made to this
Board, but they have been in the nature of requests to do




24


JANUARY MEETING, I897.


something, or permit something to be done, different from
what is required by the conditions of the Act, and the doing
of which might have placed the Board in the position of assuming the burdens without receiving the benefits contemplated
by the Act.
To have removed the College without the fulfilment of
these conditions would have been to disobey a law of the
Legislature of this State and to betray a trust imposed by that
body upon this Board. From the passage of that law to the
present time, there has not been a moment when the Board
could have complied with the wishes of the gentlemen who
signed that petition without betraying that trust and violating
that law, and the petition in question is in substance a request
that the Board do both. Shortly before the case referred to
in the circular was brought, an application was made to the
Board for the making of some arrangement so that at the least
expense the question involved in the Act could be passed upon
by the Supreme Court of this State and settled.  It was admitted that the Act had not been complied with, but it was
claimed that it was a hardship upon the friends of the movement that they should be required to go to the expense of
procuring a site and to the trouble of making the arrangement
with Grace Hospital until that question should be decided.
And they asked that as a matter of courtesy the Board would
give to them an opportunity to test the law. The Board were
advised that if they should pass a resolution refusing to consider any offer made by the friends of the movement, a technical ground would be laid for an application to the Supreme
Court. The only offer made was a statement by the attorney
of those favoring the movement that they had secured an
option on a lot in Detroit. It was scarcely claimed that this
was in compliance with the law, and yet for the purpose of
enabling the question to be raised and as an act of courtesy to
them, the Board passed the resolution indicated. This is the
only attempt at the tender of the site made to this Board, and
since the decision of the Supreme Court no communication




JANUARY MEETING, I897.


whatever has been received by the Board upon the subject
from those favoring the movement, except the petition in
question.
It is true there are now 42 members of the Homeopathic
School. It is also true that the average attendance during
the past five years, prior to the present college year, in that
school has been only 41; and that a little over one year ago
the present Faculty took the school, without practically any
attendance, and by their industry, and their ability, and by
united action they have already brought it to its present condition in the face of the opposition of a number of Homeopathic practitioners in this State, who seem not so anxious that
the principles of medicine which they claim are the true ones
should be taught as that they should be taught in a certain
place.
The circular, however, outlines a scheme of action by
which the Board of Regents of this University are to be deprived of the discretionary powers which the people of this
State have vested in them by the organic law of the State-by
presenting to them the hard alternative of the abandonment
of those rights, or the starvation of the University. It becomes, therefore, not only proper that unjustifiable attacks
upon the past action of the Board should be repelled, but
that the question should be frankly and fully considered as to
what should be done for the future. In order to fully understand this question it is necessary to consider the position of
the Homeopathic Medical College in the University at the
present time. It has always been admitted that except as to
a very limited number of subjects the teachings of the students
of the Homeopathic College and of the College of Medicine
and Surgery are the same. All the Homeopathic profession
has ever asked until lately is that instruction in those few
subjects should be separate. For the first two years of the
medical course in the University, the students of both colleges take the same course, listen to the same lectures, and
work in the same laboratories.  In this way a very large




26


JANUARI Y AMEE 7zVG, 1897.


amount of expense has been annually saved to the State.
Apparatus, laboratories, libraries, and museums have been
used in common, which in case of a removal to I)etroit it
will be necessary to duplicate. This has for many years met
with general approval. Lately, however, there has been a
constant cry from a part of the Homeopathic profession in
this State for the institution of a Homeopathic College with
a full four years' course, separate in equipment and in all the
teaching chairs.  The Board has hitherto not yielded to this
demand, first, because in their judgment there was no reason
why the State should be put to the greater expense necessary
to the change, because it did not believe that the efficiency
of the college would be thereby increased, and second, because it was impossible for financial reasons to accede to it.
Medical education under the most careful, conservative management is always very expensive, changes are continually
being made in expensive apparatus, and in the construction
and equipment of hospitals; and the working force of the
college itself is more difficult to supply and at a greater
expense than in almost any other branch. It is felt that it is
an education that deals with life and death and that nothing
which really tends to its efficiency can be regarded as unnecessary. With the limited means at its command the Board
has never been able to meet many of the demands of the
medical faculties which it felt were reasonable. It is now
proposed in addition to what has hitherto been demanded to
remove this whole school to Detroit, and, for practically building up a new medical college, an allowance has been made of
$25,000. In the judgment of your committee $25,000 is not
enough for a building for from 5o to Ioo students if the lecture rooms, laboratories, and offices are all to be included in
it. In our opinion such a building would cost at least twice
that amount after the site was given to us.  The cost of
equipping the laboratories after the buildings are provided
would probably be from $4,000 to $5,ooo apiece.    The
following laboratories will be needed:  i. Chemical.  2.




JANU(AR Y MlEE ING, 1897.


27


Electro-therapeutical.  3. Biological.  4. Histological. 5.
Physiological.  6. Anatomical.  7. Pathological, including
Hygienic and Bacteriological. It is claimed that men can
be found in so large a city as Detroit who will act as professors in such a school free of charge and that the expense
would not thereby be increased. There are many branches,
such as chemistry, biology, etc., in which the instructors must
give their whole time to the work and cannot be medical
practitioners at all. These must all be paid wherever the
college is. In the present state of medical education specialists are demanded for the several chairs, and these are to
be procured only by selection from a wide field. We do not
believe that men of that class will be found who are willing
for any length of time to fill the chairs, without a salary. The
experience of this Board has been that while volpnteers might
be secured for advertising purposes to take appointments
temporarily, their continuance was only secured by the payment of the usual salary.
It is to be considered that in the removal of the Homeopathic School to Detroit, the Regents are expected to embark
on a serious enterprise and one which might have to the University at large very serious consequences. By the Act known
as the one-sixth mill bill from which the University derives
its revenues from the State, it is provided that the several departments shall be maintained as they then existed. If, therefore, this department should be once removed to Detroit,
those interested in that special school might and probably
would insist that the same facilities for education by way of
teachers, libraries, and laboratories as are now afforded at Ann
Arbor to their school should be furnished at Detroit. And to
accomplish this either the State must each year add more than
$25o000 to the income of the University in addition to the
large expense of the instalment of the college, or else the other
departments of the University must be weakened and the
efficiency of the University as a whole sacrificed to this one
school. If the people of the State desire a separate school of




28


JANUARY MEETING, I897.


Homeopathy at Detroit, they should at least understand in
advance the magnitude of the tasks they are undertaking and
they should not ask this Board to accomplish impossibilities.
In view of the wide differences of opinion which exists between
the promoters of this enterprise and this Board as to that expense, we would suggest that in case such school be established,
it be established under a separate board so that no claim can
be made that the school is not treated fairly in comparison
with other branches of the University, and the state may be
able to ascertain the actual cost of such an institution. It will
then appear whether this Board is correct or not. So far as
the Homeopathic College itself is concerned, we believe that,
like every other department of the University, it is stronger
and more prosperous because it is a part of the University, not
simply in name but in fact, and that students and teachers are
drawn to it, and retained in it, because of the University life in
which they may thereby participate. There are numerous and
important incidental advantages arising from the presence of
the other departments of the University, which whould be
almost wholly lacking in the new school. There are many
scientific lectures given here during the year which are helpful
to the students which would not be given there, and the stinulus and helpfulness of life in the atmosphere of the University
would be missing. There would be simply the narrow, special,
and technical work by the school itself to furnish training for
the students.
Your committee has thus far considered mainly the mere
question of dollars and cents. Behind all these and above all
these is the more important question of its effect upon the
University.  Long ago the people of this State abandoned the
idea of a University with separate branches in its different
cities, and adopted the policy of centering all its departments
in its present location. There, as we have already said, where
each department has added to the development and growth of
all the rest, it has grown to its present position of eminence
among the universities of the world. If it is proper, to satisfy




JANUAR Y AIEETING, IS897.


29


a few of the members of one of the great professions, to remove
one of its departments to Detroit, it is, on the request of other
of the citizens of the State, proper to remove other departments to other cities, and, once commenced, there is no visible
opportunity for pausing in the process of disintegration.  It
would be the beginning of the end. In the opinion of your
committee, to grant the prayer of the petitioners would be not
only a most flagrant breach of the duty laid upon us by the
Legislature of this State, not only impossible with any funds
within the control of this Board, and not only unadvisable for
the real interest of the school itself, but dangerous as the first
step in a policy which, once entered upon, could not easily be
abandoned, and which would ultimately lead to the destruction
of the University,
In view of these considerations, as well as many others
that might be urged, your committee reconmmend that the
prayer of the petition be denied.
ROGER W. BUTTERFIELD,
LEVI L. BARBOUR,
P. N. COOK,
FRANK W. FLETCHER,
HENRY S. DEAN.
On motion of Regent Dean, the report was adopted, and
I,ooo copies were ordered printed for distribution by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Butterfield.
Nays-None.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution which
was adopted.
Resolved, That the Young Men's Christian Association at Coldwater
be granted the loan of the portrait of Mrs. D. B. Dennis, provided it be
properly insured, and that it be returned to the University when so ordered
by the Board of Regents, and that the library at Coldwater be requested to
send to the University the portrait of Mr. Lewis.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Secretary was instructed




30


JANUARY AfEETING, 1897.


to send the three frames of University Views now on hand to
the following High Schools, viz.: Detroit, Grand Rapids and
East Saginaw, and that the Finance Committee have discretion
to purchase twelve more frames and place them in the best
High Schools in the State. The motion was carried by the
full vote of the Board.
On motion the Board took a recess until 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON        SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. M. in open session.
On motion of Regent Barbour, it was voted that the entire
issue of 500 copies of the Volume of Proceedings at the Quarter Centennial of President Angell's Inauguration be bound in
cloth like the sample furnished, and that the distribution be
left with the Publishing Committee and the Auditing Board.
Regent Barbour presented and read the resignation of
Miss Gertrude Buck, Assistant in English, which was accepted.
On motion of Regent Dean, the sum of $50 was added to
the budget fund of the Astronomical Observatory for the purchase of two levels for the telescopes by the following vote.
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Butterfield.
Nays-None.
Regent Barbour presented and read a communication from
Professor Kelsey, asking for an additional instructor in the
department of Latin. The discussion of this request developed
the fact that the needs of assistance in the departments of
French and German were also very pressing. Regent Butterfield moved that the Literary Committee and the Finance
Committee consider these requests and report at the evening
session of the Board. It was so ordered.
The Faculty of the Homceopathic Medical College certified that Florence Spofford and Hattie C. Moseley had completed all the requirements for graduation in the Training
School for Nurses, and they were recommended for Certificates
of Graduation.




JANUAR Y MEE TING, 1897.


31


On motion of Regent Cook, it was voted that the proper
certificates of graduation be given these candidates, signed by
the President and Secretary, and with the seal of the University affixed.
Regent Butterfield moved that $30 be appropriated for
the purchase of an additional bookcase for the Law Library.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Butterfield.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer moved that an appropriation of $Ioo be
made for the purchase of jars and alcohol for the preservation
of specimens in the Pathological Laboratory. The motion was
carried as follows:
Ayes —Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Butterfield.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer from the special committee appointed at
the last meeting to examine the present anatomical law, and
recommend such changes as would secure more material for use
in the University, reported that, in view of the fact that fifteen
bodies had been received during the last month, the committee
did not think it wise to make an effort to change the law at
this time. The report was accepted and adopted.
On motion the Board took a recess until 7:30 P. M.
EVENING SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 7:30 P. M.
Regent Cocker in the Chair.
Regent Fletcher submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Board considers it inexpedient to make any change
in the teaching force which will' affect the present budget, although recognizing that several departments may need additional help to be arranged
for under the new budget, and that they wish to convey to the University
authorities that it is the sense of this Board, that in all instruction the needs
of the undergraduates must be first fully arranged for.




32              JANUARY MEETING, z897.
The resolution was adopted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-Regent Butterfield.
On motion of Regent Barbour the Board adjourned to
Wednesday, February 17, 1897.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1897.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, )
ANN ARBOR, February 17, 1897. i
The Board assembled in the room of the President at lo
o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Barbour, Cocker, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher,
and Farr.
Absent, Regents Cook and Butterfield.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Kiefer, approved and order printed.
Sundry papers which had reached the President were placed
in the hands of appropriate committees of the Board for consideration.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Professor G. W. Patterson
was granted a leave of absence for the next college year for
the purpose of going abroad for study, his salary to lapse during his absence.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the degree of Doctor of
Medicine was conferred upon William Raymond Turner in
accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the
Department of Medicine and Surgery.
Regent Farr, who was requested at a former meeting of
the Board to ascertain the value of the property devised to this
University by the late Dr. Anna Eastman Marsh, of Greeley,
Colorado, and also to ascertain if the property could be relieved
of certain burdens with which it is charged under the will, submitted the following report, which was adopted by the full vote
of the Board, and the Secretary of the Board was directed to
send a copy of the report to the administrator of the estate
and advise him of the action of the Board thereon.




36


FEBRUARY M~EETING, I897.


To THE HONORABLE THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
GENTLEMEN:-Having been appointed by the Board to ascertain the
value of certain property devised to the Board for the use of the University by
the late Dr. Anna Eastman Marsh, of Greeley, Col., with conditions annexed
to said devise, I beg leave to report, that I have corresponded with the administrator of the estate and with Dr. Marsh, the husband of the deceased. By
the terms of the will, a charge of $300 per year is laid upon the property
devised by said will in favor of Dr. Marsh, if he shall need the same. Also
one in favor of a sister of said deceased to procure her admission to the Old
Ladies' Home in Detroit. I find the property devised of the value of less
than $3,000. It is wholly unproductive. Dr. Marsh refuses to release his
annual charge and suggests that the property be left to him, and, at his
death, to revert to the University. I deem it very unsafe to accept the trust
as in the will provided and offer the following:
Resolved, That the Board decline to accept the bequest of Dr. Anna
Eastman Marsh and hereby renounce the same, for the reasons above given,
believing it beyond our power as a Board to assume the responsibilities and
conditions in said will provided and created.
GEORGE A. FARR.
Professor I. N. Demmon, chairman of the committee
charged with editing and printing the proceedings of President Angell's Quarter-Centennial Celebration, submitted the following report, which was accepted and ordered printed in the
proceedings.
To THE HONORABLE THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
GENTLEMEN:-On behalf of the committee charged with the editing and
printing of the volume commemorative of President Angell's Quarter-Centennial Celebration, I take pleasure in reporting that the entire edition of five
hundred and thirty-four copies, all neatly bound in cloth, has now been received, and that the total cost is as follows:
Printing............ $178 36
Binding..........     128 o2-$306 38
To this should be added freight on two cases, making the total cost
about three hundred and ten dollars. This sum, it will be seen, falls within
the appropriation by about forty dollars.
Respectfully submitted,
ISAAC N. DEIMMON, Chairman.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following communication from the Faculty of the Department of Literature,




FEBRUARY MEETING, i897.


37


Science, and the Arts, and the recommendation therein was
approved and adopted by the Board.
FEBRUARY IO, I897.
TO THE HONORABLE THE BORAD OF REGENTS:
GENTLEMEN:-I have the honor to report to you that the Faculty at
a recent meeting adopted the following resolution and presents it to your
honorable body for sanction.
Resolved, That the Faculty make the following recommendation to the
Board.of Regents to take effect in I898:-A candidate, who desires to take
the entrance examinations upon a date not announced in the University Calendar, shall be required to pay to the treasurer a fee of five ($5) dollars before obtaining permission to take them, providing that the Auditing Board
may at their discretion remit the fee.
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DEPONT, Secretary.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the degree of Bachelor of
Arts was conferred upon Claude Halstead VanTyne, as of the
class of 1896, in accordance with the recommendation of the
Faculty of the Department of Literature,.Science, and the Arts.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following communication from the Faculty of the Department of Law, which
was, on motion of Regent Dean, adopted by the full vote of
the Board.
DECEMBER 15, I896.
To THE HONORABLE THE BOARD OF REGNTS:
GENTIEMEN:-At a recent meeting of the Faculty of the Department
of Law, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That on and after October 1st, 1900, no person shall be entitled to admission to the Department of Law as a candidate for a degree,
except upon presentation of a certificate from the proper officer, showing
that such person is then qualified to matriculate as a candidate for a degree
in the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts of the University.
We respectfully ask that this action may be confirmed by your honorable body.
It will be observed that the resolution leaves the details as to the examination to be worked out in the future. It is hoped by the Law Faculty that
this action may result in the establishment of a Board of University Examiners, whose duty it shall be to examine candidates for all departments.
Respectfully submitted,
I-. B. HUTCHINS, Dean.




38


FEBRJUARY MEETING, 1897.


Regent Barbour moved that the leave of absence granted
Instructor E. W. Dow be extended another year, as he desires
to continue his studies abroad; and also that Theodore Clark
Smith, Ph.B., be appointed Instructor in History for one year
from October Ist, 1897, at a salary of $9oo.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following communication from Professor I. N. Demmon.
TO THE HONORABLE TIlE BOARD OF REGENTS:
GENTLEMEN:-I take much pleasure in informing you that we were
able last month, through the generosity of Senator James McMillan, to secure
for the Shakespeare Library bearing his name, a fine copy of the third folio
edition of 1664 and three aditional items, at a cost of $381.75. He has also
further authorized us to fill up the Shakespeariana in foreign tongues to the
extent of one hundred dollars.
Respectfully submitted,
ISAAC N. DEMMON.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the President was requested
to transmit to Senator McMillan the grateful acknowledgements
of the Board for his generous gift to the library.
Regent Kiefer submitted the following resolution which
was adopted by the full vote of the Board.
Resolved, That four nurses more be allowed to the University Hospital,
increasing the whole number to 16; the new ones to be taken from the applicants to the training school of nurses of said hospital.
On motion of Regent Farr; the Board took a recess until
2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. M.
Regent Kiefer moved that the Committee on Buildings
and Grounds be authorized to purchase and place in the boiler
house at the hospitals, a Ioo-horse-power boiler, at a cost not
exceeding $1,330, and that the committee be allowed to attach




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1897.


39


to said boiler one automatic stoker at a cost of $350, if, after
investigation, they shall think wise to do so.
The motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Committee on Buildings and Grounds was requested to remove from the law building such lockers as are not needed there and to place them in
the Women's Gymnasium.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Committee on Buildings and Grounds was authorized to incase with galvanized
iron the indirect radiation in the Women's Building at a cost
not exceeding $ oo.
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds was directed to place in the Dental Department additional soldering tables for the use of the students.
Regent Fletcher read a communication from the Junior
Hop committee, asking the Board to rescind their action fixing
a rental for the use of the Waterman Gymnasium.
The communication was laid on the table.
Regent Barbour presented and read a communication
from the American Association for the Advancement of Science,
which was referred to the Literary Faculty.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the board adjourned to
Wednesday, March 24, at io o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE, Secretary.




MARCH MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, March 24, 1897. 
The Board assembled in the room of the President at Io
o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Barbour, Cocker, Dean, and Kiefer.
Absent, Regents Cook, Butterfield, Fletcher, and Farr.
There being no quorum present the Board adjourned to
Wednesday April 28, I897.
JAMES H. WADE, Secretary.
APRIL MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, f
ANN ARBOR, April 28, I897.
The Board assembled in the room of the President at Io
o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer,
Butterfield, and Farr.
Absent, Regent Fletcher.
The Secretary read the minutes of the February meeting
which were, on motion of Regent Dean, approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry communications, which had reached the President
were placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the
Board for consideration.
The President made the following report of the action of




44


API'IL IIL ETrING, 1897.


the Executive Committee which was approved by the full vote
of the Board.
To THE BOARD OF REGENTS.
GENTLEMEN: —The Executive Committee beg leave to make the
following report:  On Maych Ist it was found that the pressure upon
Professor M. E. Cooley's department of work was so heavy that, in our
judgment, it was necessary to furnish some assistance for this semester.
Mr. C. D. Jones was therefore appointed assistant, at the compensation
of $ioo for the semester.
It is supposed that the work can be so organized next year that
the continuance of this assistance will not be necessary, unless there is
an addition to the number of students.
The committee also granted   permission to Dr. Novy to go to
Europe April I6th, his salary to continue, as he has provided for the
work committed to him in a satisfactory manner.' He is to return October
Ist next.                                      JAMES 13. ANGELLI,
W. J. CocKEr,,
IIERM. KIEFER,
IIENRY S. I)EAN,
GEO. A. FARR.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution which
was adopted.
Resolved, That Prof. W. H1. Pettee be appointed, under the direction
of the Finance Committee, to examine the books and accounts of the Treasurer and to report the result of examination to the Board.
Regent Barbour submitted the following resolution which
was adopted by a unanimous vote of the Board.
Resolved, That the Board of Regents recognize the great honor conferred on Dr. Angell, the University, and the State, in his appointment by
the President of the United States as Envoy Extraordinary and Minister
Plenipotentiary to Turkey. For the purpose of enabling him to fulfill the
duties devolving upon him we grant him leave of absence until October ist,
I898.
There is no need of words to express to the beloved President of this
University our heartfelt wishes for the good health of himself and his family
during his absence, the success of all his endeavors in his arduous mission,
and his safe return at the appointed time, to renew his labors in behalf of
this institution which he has so long and so ably served.




APRIL AMEETING, 1897.


45


Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution which
was adopted by the full vote of the Board.
Resolved, That two hundred and fifty dollars be appropriated to construct eight tennis courts, to be located between the gymnasium and the
medical building, two of the courts to be used exclusively by the young ladies
of the University.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the degree of Doctor of
Medicine was conferred upon Miss Penelope McNaughton Flett,
as of the Class of I896, in accordance with the recommendation
of the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the following communication from Dr. George Dock.
Ann Arbor, Mich., March 15, I897.
To THE HSONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN:
I respectfully ask leave of absence to date from May 3, I897, to the
end of the college year. My objects are to attend the Congress of American Physicians and Surgeons in Washington, May 4-6, where I am to read
a paper, and then go to Europe for the summer. I wish to do some work
in hospitals in Germany that I cannot get elsewhere, as well as to attend
the Medical Congress in Moscow, where I am down for a paper.
For the time I shall be away I have arranged with my colleagues and
assistants so that my work will be continued as usual. I can do this work
more easily now than I shall be able to for a long time as my assistant, Dr.
Chadbourne, who has been with me three years, does not intend to return.
Very truly and respectfully,             GEORGIE DOCK.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Dr. Dock was granted leave
of absence from May ist to October ist next.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the Secretary was authorized
to purchase one typewriter for use at the University Hospital
at cost not exceeding $Ioo by the following vote.
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Kiefer, Dean, Butterfield, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the degree of Doctor of
Dental Surgery was conferred upon Frank Erland Logan in




46


APRIL MEETING, 1897.


accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the
College of Dental Surgery.
Regent Dean read a communication from      Mr. Arthur
Brown relating to the sale of a lot at the University Hospital,
which was referred to the Finance Committee.
Regent Cook read a communication from Dr. W. N. Fowler, asking permission to withdraw his resignation as Superintendent of the Honceopathic Hospital.  The communication
was laid on the table.
On motion of Regent Barbour, F. H. Dixon, Ph.D., was
appointed Acting Assistant Professor of Political Economy for
the next academic year, his salary to be paid by Professor H.
C. Adams.
Instructor Tobias Diekhoff asked for and obtained leave
of absence for the next college year for the purpose of going
abroad for study, his salary to lapse during his absence.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following communication from the Students' Lecture Association.
Ann Arbor, Mich, March 24, I897.
DEAR SIR —When the Hon. Luther Laflin Mills spoke on this course
Feb. I2, he declined to accept the compensation we had offered him
($I50.oo), desiring to contribute it to some student organization. The
Executive Board of this association voted the money to the women's gymnasium fund, and a check for that amount has been forwarded to the
chairman of the gymnasium committee.
Yours very respectfully,
HAROLD H. EMMLONS.
To PRES. JAMES B. ANGELL.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the President was requested to transmit to the Association the grateful acknowledgements of the Board for his generous contribution to the fund
for the Women's Building.
On motion of Regent Barbour, an edition of 7,500 copies
of the Graduate Announcement was ordered.
On motion of Regent Barbour Mr. Russell S. Rowland
was appointed Assistant in the Zoological Laboratory for the




APRIL MEETING, I897.


47


second semester of 1896-7 in place of Miss Juliet Butler, resigned.  Salary $ioo-the same compensation received by
Miss Butler. The vote on this motion was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Barbour Professor George A. Hench
was granted leave of absence from June ioth to October ist
next for the pupose of going to Germany to study the methods
of instruction in the more important Gymnasia of that country.
Regent Barbour moved that Mr. W. W. Floret be appointed to the instructorship in German which will be vacated
by Mr. Hildner next June.   The appointment to be for one
year from October next at a salary of $9oo.  A call vote being
taken resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Barbour it was ordered that Miss
Amanda Belser, Assistant in the bindery be paid $5 per week
from April Ist, 1897, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Dean, the Committee on Buildings
and Grounds were authorized to calcimine certain rooms in
the Museum.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following communication from the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds.
Ann Arbor, Mich., April 28, I897.
TO THE HONORABLE, THE COMMITTEE ON BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS.
GENTLEMEN: —1 would most respectfully ask that there be purchased
for use on and about the Campus one horse; one wagon for team; one set of
double harness; one plow and one scraper, at a cost not to exeed $I85.00.
Also two tons of fertilizer for the Campus; and that I be allowed to employ
such help as may be necessary to remove the deadwood from the elm trees
not trimmed last summer.                   H. REEVE,
Supt. Buildings and Grounds.




48


A4PRIL AIEE TING, i897.


On motion of Regent Barbour, the requests contained in
the foregoing communication were approved by the full vote
of the Board.
On motion of Regent Cook, the question of purchasing
a piece of ground from which to obtain a quantity of good
soil for use on the campus was referred to the Finance Committee with power.
On motion of Regent Barbour the Board took a recess
until 2 o'clock p. mI.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
Regent Butterfield in the chair.
Regent Barbour moved that W. B. Pillsbury, Ph.D., be
appointed Instructor in Psychology for one year from October
next at a salary of $900, with the understanding that after two
years he shall receive a salary of $I,200, and after three years
he shall be made Assistant Professor, if work is satisfactory.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
The President read the following communication from the
Young Men's Christian Association of Coldwater, which was
on motion accepted and ordered printed in the minutes.
Coldwater, Mich., April 26, I897.
TO THE PRESIDENT AND REGENTS OF MICIIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY.
GENTLEMEN:-The Board of Directors of the Young Men's Christian
Association of Coldwater at a meeting held March 30th, I897, unanimously
adopted the following:
"Resolved, That the proposition of the Committee of the Board of
Regents of the Univcrsity of Michigan that the Board of Directors of the
Y. M. C. A. receive and care for the portrait of Mrs. H. C. Lewis-I)ennis
until called for, be accepted, and the President and Secretary of this Board
are hereby authorized as soon as such portrait is placed within the Y. M. C.
A. building to receipt for the same, and cause it to be insured to the amount
of $250, for the benefit of the University as long as the same shall remain
in the custody of this Board."
In behalf of the Board and the members of the Association, we desire




APIL 'II  EEZTING, S897.


49


to express to you our appreciation of the action of your honorable body in
permitting this portrait of Mrs. H. C. Lewis-Dennis to remain in our possession to adorn the reading room of our new association building.
From  the first organization of the association to her death, Mrs.
Lewis-Dennis was actively interested in the work for the young men of the
city. As President of the Woman's Auxiliary, she gave liberally both her
service and her money, and the building in which we now have our delightful Association home was her bequest to our organization.
It seems, therefore, peculiarly fitting that her portrait should be given
the place it now occupies, and while it beautifies our rooms and gives its
inspiration to our lives, we shall thankfully remember your consideration in
permitting it to remain with us.
H. P. WOODWARD, President.
M. F. BIXLER, Secretary.
On motion of-Regent Barbour, the Superintendent of
Buildings was instructed to cause a closet to be constructed in
the organ case for the safe keeping of music, using one of the
panels of the case as a door.
Regent Butterfield submitted the following resolution
which was adopted:
Resolved, That the leave of absence heretofore given to Pres. Angell
be granted upon the condition that the performance of the duties of his
office be without additional expense to the University.
Regent Dean presented and read the following communication from the Curator of the Museum.
Ann Arbor, April 27, I897.
REGENT H. S. DEAN, ANN ARBOR.
DEAR SIR:-I hand you herewith a letter from Lieut. R. E. Peary, U.
S. N., in regard to skins of the North Atlantic walrus.
The opportunity here presented is a very unusual one. Full data
accompany each skin, and the careful measurements make the skins especially valuable. Our museum is entirely lacking in animals of this family,
and we are anxious to fill out serious gaps in our collection of typical mammals as rapidly as possible. A pair of walruses would not only add greatly
to our collection from a scientific standpoint, but would make a very striking exhibit, and these specimens would be especially interesting to many of
our visitors from the circumstances under which they were obtained.
The price at which they are offered is extremely low, the lowest price
quoted in any dealer's list being $I20.00 to $I50.00 for a single skin. Wal



50


APRIL MAIET TING, 1897.


rus skins are not ordinarily to be had at any price. Dealers who list them
do not usually have them in stock.
We ought to avail ourselves of this opportunity and secure a pair of
walruses while we can do it on such advantageous terms. Can the necessary funds be provided?      Very respectfully,
D. C. WORCISTrIR.
Approved-JAcoB REIGHARD.
Regent Dean moved that the Curator of the Museum purchase the skin of a Walrus bull, cow, and calf if the three can
be secured for $200.  Otherwise to purchase the skin of the
bull and cow for $150.  The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes —Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, and
Farr.
Nays —None,
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the matter of the corrections of the alleged errors in drafting of the mortgages on
lots 12 and 13 and 22 and 23 of lots 22 and 23 of Bernart
and Fishers' Addition in the city of Detroit, be referred to the
Finance Committee with power to act, and that the President
and Secretary be directed to execute any papers necessary to
carry out the determination in the matter.
On motion of Regent Farr, Regents Barbour, Butterfield,
and Dean were appointed a committee to draft suitabie resolutions on the appointment of President Angell to Turkey,
and report at the next meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Board adjourned to meet
at the Russell House in Detroit on May 5th, and in Ann Arbor,
May 12, at o1 o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




SPECIAL MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, )
DETROIT, May 5, 1897.
The Board assembled in the Russell House in the City of
Detroit at Io o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Barbour, Cocker, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher,
and Farr.
Absent, Regents Cook and Butterfield.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Regent Kiefer was called
to the chair.
Regent Cocker moved that Professor H. B. Hutchins be
chosen Acting President during the absence of President
Angell as Minister to Turkey.
The motion was carried by the unanimous vote of the
Board.
On motion the Board adjourned to meet at Ann Arbor
May 12th, at IO o'clock A. AM.
JAMES H. WADE, Secretary.
MAY MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MIICHIGAN, e
ANN ARBOR, May 12, I897. 
The Board assembled in the room of the President at Io
o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer,
Fletcher, and Farr.
Absent, Regent Butterfield.




52


MA Y MEETING, 1897.


The Secretary read the minutes of the April Ineeting and
also the minutes of the meeting held in Detroit May 5th,
which were, on motion of Regent Dean, approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry papers which had       reached the President were
placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the Board
for consideration.
On motion of Regent Barbour the President was requested
to convey the thanks of the Board to Professor VW. J. Beal, of
the State Agricultural College, for his contribution of shrubs
and other flowering plants for the campus, and also to Mr.
George H. Hicks, of the United States Department of Agriculture, for a quantity of seeds for the Botanical Garden.
Regent Farr submitted the following resolution which
was adopted.
'Resolved, That the Treasurer ascertain and report to the Board at the
end of each fiscal year, the condition of each mortgage held by the University, as to payment of interest, payment of taxes, and amount and condition
of insurance.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following communication from Librarian Davis.
Ann Arbor, Mich., May 7, I897.
To THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF TllHE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN.
GENTLIEMEN:-It gives me pleasure to inform you that the Library
has just received from His Highness, the Maharasjah of Jeypore, Rajputana,
India, through Col. S. S. Jacob, Superintending Engineer, six portfolios of
architectural drawings. These drawings are chiefly from old buildings at
or near Delhi and Agra.  They have been reproduced largely to serve
students as working drawings, and as such they cannot fail to be most
stimulating. A fuller description of the drawings is as follows:
Part I, Copings and Plinths. 52 plates, comprising II2 examples of
copings and 20 of plinths.
Part II, Pillars, Caps, and Bases. 79 plates, comprising t58 examples,
namely, 127 of pillars and 31 of bases (I in color).
Part III, Carved Doors. 66 plates (II representing inlaid ivory work,
printed in color), comprising 27 doors, 68 panels, and 74 other details.
Part IV, Brackets. 69 plates (2 colored), comprising 86 examples.




MA4 Y AlEE 7 TING, z 897.


53


Iart V, Arches. 58 plates, of which 10 are colored.
Part VI, Balustrades. 50 plates comprising 5I examples (I in color).
Many of the panels are filled with tracery.
These particulars are respectfully submitted for the information of the
Board in making an acknowledgment to the Maharajah.
Very respectfully,
RAYMOND C. DAVIS, Librarian.
On motion of Regent Barbour the President was requested
o transmit the thanks of the Board for this valuable gift to the
Library.
Regent Barbour moved that Professor C. G. Taylor be
appointed Superintendent of Shops, and asked that the motion
lie on the table until the next meeting, which was agreed to.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds was authorized to cope the street lawn
on south side of campus at a cost not exceeding $2 per rod by
the following vote:
Ayes —Regents larbour, Cocker, Cook, Iean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
Professor Chas. E. Greene, Dean       of the Engineering
Department, submitted the following scheme of requirements
for graduation in that Department, which were approved by
the Board.
To THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVF;RSITY OF
MICHIGAN.
GENTLEMEN:-I have the honor to submit the following resolutions
passed by the Faculty of the Department of Engineering:
I. That the requirements for graduation in this Department be raised
to one hundred and thirty hours,
2. That the accompanying scheme of required work be submitted for
approval, and
3. That one additional instructor be asked for in each of the three
Departments of Civil, Mechanical, and Electrical Engineering.
Respectfully submitted,
CHAS. E. (GREENE, Dean,




PROPOSED SCHEDULE FOR DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING.-MAY 12, 1897.


OLD.


NEW.


GENERAL      REQUIREMENTS.
French and German      - ___ — __-  ------— __-_-___  French and German _________-____-__-___-__-__-__ —
English —..______-_-__ —..- - _ ---- ------ ____-_ i English -________________________________________. I, la
Mathematics -___________ --- —_______-__-i, 2, 3, 4, 6 Mathematics_____________________________  i, 2, 3, 4, 6
Physics __________ —_ _____ —   _ ______      I Physics __ __________. --- _____.___-__-______  — 1, 2
Chemistry _______-____ --- —— _             i or 3 Chemistry________________________________________ 2
Drawing _______________-________________-_____-___, 5 Drawing — _  ___________________,___ ___ ___  I, 4, 5
Shop Practice --- —------------------------------- a, 20
Civil Engineering - ----- -_..-._ —__-_____ ---- 5 Civil Engineering __-__..______-____________ ___ 3, 5
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS-CIVIL ENGINEERING.
Physics -— __-_________________________-___________3c
Astronomy ______________-________________________ 4 Astronomy _____________________________ - _-4
Mineralogy — _-_   -- — _-_- -_-_-__-__-__-______  Mineralogy ______________________________-________ I
Geology ________________________________________ I
Drawing    __ --- —--.. —_  __________   4, 6, 14 Drawing _______4_____ __________
Surveying _-_ --- —-_-__-__-_______- ___I, 2, 3, 5, 6 Surveyingl,                        2, 3, 5, 6
Civil Engineering-______________________ 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9 Civil Engineering _ ~______________________ 4, 6, 7, 8, 9
Mechanical Engineering —__________ ________ 5b, 7b, 8a Mechanical Engineering _________ __________ b, 
Electrical Engineering______________   ____ 4


INCREASE IN
NO. OF HRS.
2
I
5
4
4
2 (72)


One hour added to Course 6.
One hr. ad'd to Co. 5, Co. 4 trans. from Sp. R.
Course 3 transferred from Spec. Requirements.
Course 3c introduced as prep'n for El. Eng. 4b.
Course 6 not req'd. Course 4 trans. to Gen. R.
Course 3 transferred to General Requirements.
One hour added to Course 8.


3
-6
-2
3 (47+-72 =II9)

SPECIAL    REQUIREMENTS-MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
Physics ------------       _________________2, 2a Physics___________                        3C   3
Metallurgy.~                                  MI Metallurgy ____________________________________________ i
Drawing ____-_____________________________    9                                                -3
Shop Practice -___________-_____________ia, 2a, 3a, 4a Shop Practice — ___________________________ i, 3a, 4a, 46  I
Surveying                 __4 Surveying-___-__-________________________ ________ 4
Civil Engineering -— ______. o Civil Enuineering                                          - o -2


Course 3c inroduced as prep'n for El. Eng., 4b.
Course 9 transferred to General Requirements.


Mech. LEg.._____.   5a, 6a, 7a, 8b, 9, 0I, II, 12, 13, 14, i6


Mech. Eng., 4, 5a, 6a, 7a, 8,9, 10, II, 12, 13, 14, I6, 17, 18
Electrical Engineering ____~_____- _______________. 4b


SPECIAL     REQUIREMENTS-ELECTRICAL                 ENGINEERING.
Physics ______-________ _-____________-    2, 2a, 3a  Physics — __-_____  ______ --- —-----------------— 3b
Drawing ____________________________-  _____ —      9
Shop Practice ______- __________________  ia, 2a, 3a, 4a  Shop Practice _________________________-___  la, 4a, 47
Mechanical Engineering -________________ 5a, 6a, 7a, 8a Mechanical Engineering___________ 5____5a, 6a, 7a, 8, 9
Electrical Engineering -4, 5, 8a, 9, I3, I4 Electrical Engineering ________-, 2, 3, 4a, 5, 6, 7


9
3(
-3
3(
6 (


Course 3 transferred to General Requirements.
Cour. 8 increased one hr., Cour. IO incr. one hr.
(54+72 = 126)
Course 9 transferred to General Requirements.
Courses 20, 3a trans. to General Requirements.
46+72 = ii8)-One hr. added to Course 5, two to Course 7.




MA Y MIEE TING, I897.


55


Regent Dean moved that one additional instructor be
appointed in the Department of Engineering for the next
college year. The vote was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion the Board took a recess until 2 o'clock p. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board re-assembled      at 2 o'clock P. M.      Regent
Butterfield was present.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Secretary was directed
to advertise in the Detroit Free Press and Tribune that the
University will receive tenders up to and including June i,
1897, for five thousand tons (more or less) screened lump coal
delivered on board of cars in Ann Arbor, shipments to be
made at such times and in such quantities as the University
may direct, and that bonds will be required for the faithful
performance of the contract.    The Board reserving the right
to reject any or all bids.
Regent Butterfield presented and read the following
communication from Professor Levi T. Griffin.
Ann Arbor, Mich., March I2, I897.
TO THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS, UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
I submit herewith my resignation as Fletcher Professor of Law to take
effect Oct. I, I897, that being the month of my commencement of service.
It is possible, and perhaps, in the opinion of some, highly probable that the
infirmity which has overtaken, and still clings to me, impairs my efficiency
in my work as a member of the Faculty, and it is my desire to relieve the
Board of any embarrassment.
I beg to assure the Board that I shall ever maintain and cherish an
interest in the Department, and shall wish for it a continuance of that
increasing prosperity and usefulness, which fortunately has steadily attended
it since my connection therewith.
Thanking the Board for consideration extended under the circumstances.                      I am very respectfully,
LEVI T. GRIFFIN.




56


6MA Y MEETING, 1897.


On motion the resignation of Mr. Griffin was accepted.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Committee on Buildings and Grounds were authorized to complete the floors and
finish the china closet in the Women's Building by the full
vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Barbour the title of Acting Professor Geo. A. Hench was made Professor of Germanic Languages
and Literatures.
Regent Fletcher presented and read the annual report of
the Director of the Gymnasium which was accepted and placed
on file.
Regent Cook moved the appointment of Leonard A.
Stewart as House Surgeon in the Homceopathic Hospital for
one year at a salary of $350; Miss Ella Cumberland as Matron
and Principal of the Training School, for one year at a salary
of $45 per month; Miss Mattie Wilson as Head Nurse for one
year, salary $20 per month.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Fletcher, Butterfield,
and Farr.
Regent Kiefer not voting.
On motion the Board adjourned to June 2d, at     o
o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




JUNE MEETING.
t NIViSiTY ()F 1MI(;IXAN, I
AxN ANN   OR, June 2, IS 97. 
The Board assembled in the roo:n of the Pi-esident at io
o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer,
Fletcher, and Farr'.
Absent, Reg-ent Butterfield.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last ineeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Dean, approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry papers, which had reached the President, were
placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the Board
fcr consideration.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the President was requested
to transnmit the thanks of the Board to the Fort Wayne Electric Corporation, and to the Vice President, Mr. C. S. Knight,
for their generosity in making a free exchang-e of a new alternator and exciter, and switch hoard instruments, for the old
outfit belonging to the Departmlent of Electrical Engineering.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following communication from   Professor 1. C. Russell, and the leave of
absence asked for was granted.
Ann Arbor, MIay 25, 1897.
TO THE BOARD OF R GIGi.(NTS, UNIVE1RSITY OF MICHIG-AIN,
GENTiLEIM,1lN: —T hav the thhonor to request that I )e granted leave of
absence from the close of my examinations until July 1st. My reason for
making this request is that I have niade arrangements to (to geological work
for the U. S. Geological Survey, during the sumnmer, in the State of Washington, and am anxious to reach the field at as earl\- a date as practicable.
I remain, very respectfully,
ISRAEI, C. RUSSElI,
Professor of Geology.




60


JUNE AMEETING, i897.


On motion of Regent Barbour, Professor C. E. Greene
was   granted   leave   of   absence   during    Commencement
Week.
Regent Barbour read the following communication from
Librarian Davis:
Ann Arbor, June I, I897.
TO THE HONORABI E, THE BOARUS OF REGENTS,
GENTLEMEN: —It is my pleasant duty to report to you that this Library
has received, as a gift from the Government of Her Majesty the Queen of
England, a set of the " Report on the Scientific Results of the Challenger
Expedition," in 44 volumes quarto.
These sets now sell for about $300. The matter is of the highest importance for the work done in the laboratories of the University, and not a
little of it is of general interest.
Very respectfully,
RAYMOND C. DAvis, Librarian.
Regent Barbour submitted the following resolution which
was adopted:
WHEREPAS, It has been reported to this Board by the Librarian that
he has received from the Government of Her Majesty the Queen of England,
for the Library of the University, a work of very great value, viz., "Report
on the Scientific Results of the Challenger Expedition," in 44 quarto
volumes: therefore be it
Resolved, That the Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge
with many thanks, and a high appreciation of the gift, the receipt of the
above named work; and the President of the University is hereby directed
to transmit to Her Majesty's Government a copy of this resolution.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Professor T. C. Trueblood
was given leave of absence during Commencement Week for
the purpose of attending a convention of teachers of oratory
to be held in New York City June 28th.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Dr. V. C. Vaughan was
granted leave of absence from June i8th to October ist for the
purpose of going abroad, and Dr. J. N. Martin was given leave
of absence for one year on account of ill health, his salary to
lapse during his absence.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Harry W. Clark, B.S., was




JUNE AI EE7TNG, 1897.


61


appointed Superintendent of the University Hospital for one
year at a salary of $i,ooo, by the following vote.
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, and Farr.
Nays —Regent Fletcher.
Regent Kiefer moved that the following appointments be
made in the Department of Medicine and Surgery, as recommended by the Faculty:
J. G. Lynds, M.D., Acting Professor of Gynaecology for
one year at a salary of $i,6oo.
Casper K. Lahuis, M.D., Demonstrator of Obstetrics and
Gynrecology for one year, at a salary of $500.
C. G. Darling, M.D., reappointed Demonstrator of Surgery and Lecturer on Minor Surgery for one year at a salary
of $500.
Sinmon M. Yutzy, M.D., reappointed Instructor in Osteology, and Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy for one year,
at a salary of $i,ooo.
August E. Guenther, Assistant in Physiology for one year
at a salary of $5oo.
George B. Wallace, Assistant in Pharmacology for one
year, at a salary of $500.
John S. Johnson, M.D., Demonstrator of Ophthalmology
and Otology for one year, at a salary of $500.
James R. Arneill, A.B., M.D., Demonstrator of Clinical
Medicine for one year, at a salary of $500.
William A. Spitzley, A.B., Assistant to the Professor of
Surgery for one year, at a salary of $200.
Arthur S. Rogers, M.D., Assistant to the Professor of
Ophthalmic and Aural Surgery for one year, without salary.
David G. Coolidge, M.D., reappointed Demonstrator of
Nervous Diseases and Electrotherapeutics for one year, at a
salary of $500.
Aldred S. Warthin, Ph.D., M.D., reappointed Instructor
in Pathology for three years, at a salary of $1,200.
Frank W. Nagler, B.S., reappointed Instructor in Electrotherapeutics for one year, at a salary of $6oo.




62.2_UNJ.E, iII/s' 77MAEEI, 1897.


Jeanne C. Solis, M.I)., reappointed Assistant to the Professor of Nervous Diseases for one year, without salary.
Harry C. Watkins, Assistant to the Professor of Theory
and Practice for one year, at a salary of S$200.
Ralph 'N. Gorden, H- louse Surgeon for one year, at a
salary of $300.
Charles t3. (Gauss, {ouse Physician for one year, at a
salary of $200.
Willard H. Huttchings, B.I., William S. Durand, and
Lena A. *Benjamin to be Assistant Demonstrators of Anatomy
for one year, at a salary of $20oo each.
Julian T. McClymonds M.I)., reappointed Assistant in
Hygiene for one year, at a saliry of $400.
Herbert H. Waite, A.B., reappointed Instructor in Bacteriology for one year, at a sala:'y of $600.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, )ean, Kiefer, Iletcher, and
Farr.
Nays —None.
The Hospital Committee of the Medical Department
having certified that Miss Kate 13. Warner had compl)leted all
required work for graduation in the Training School for
Nurses, on motion of Regent Kiefer the President and Secretary were authorized to issue the proper certificate under the
seal of the University.
Regent Barbour moved that a chair of English Philology
and General Linguistics be established, and that Professor
George Hempl be elected to fill it at a salary of,$2,500.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, I)ean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Navs-None.
Regent Cocker, Chairman of the Finance Comiinittee,
submitted the following budget for the ensuing- year, which
was adopted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.




JUNAiE M/EETi/1'i7VG, 1897.


63


BUDGET.
The Finance Committee subm)it the following
1897 98:
EST IMAT 1) R1ESOURCES.
One-sixth milll tax,
Hlomoeopathic act,
Aid for hospitals in vacation,
University interest,
Students' fees and deposits,
Summer School,
University Hospital,.
Htomeopathic Hospital,
Miscellaneous receipts,


EISTIMATEI) 'XP iENITURES.
Greek Department, increase of Dr. Wait's salary,
Geology,
German, additional instructor, half time,
English, general expenses,
Additional instructor,
Additional assistant,
Increase of Professor HIempl's salary,
French, additional instructor, half time,
History, additional instructor,.
Philosophy, additional instructor,
Apparatus,..
Botany, current expenses,
Increase of Professor Newcombe's salary,
Zoology, current expenses,
Apparatus,.
Increase of Dr. Lillie's salary,
Additional instructor,
Mineralogy,.....
Astronomy,.....
Engineering Department, current expenses,
Additional instructor,
Civil Engineering,....
Machine,.
Mechanical Engineering,...
Chemical Laboratory, supplies,
Instructor in Chemical Technology,
Increase in Qualitative Analysis,.
Increase in Dr. Gomberg's salary,
Additional assistants,.


budget for the vear
SI86,212.00
6,ooo.oo
3,o000.00
38,500.00
i6o,ooo.oo.  5,000.00.  0, I25.00
1,550.00
I I11,158.00
421,545.00
300.00
200.00
450.00
50.00
900.00
300.00
500.00
450.00
6oo.oo
900.00
500.00
700oo.oo
400o.oo00
200.00
300.00
500.00
50.00
352.00
250.00
900.00
450.00
300.00
1,684.00
9,140.00
900.00
200.00
300.00
50.00




64           JUNE MIEETING, i897.
Physics,.......   1,200.00
Latin Department, current expenses,.... 200.00
Additional instructor,....      900.00
Music Department,.....    200.00
Semitics,......        200.00
Law Department, current expenses,...  I,000.00
Additional professor,.....  2,500.00
Increase in salaries,..          1,200.00
Dental College,.....          5,500.00
Surplus each year to be used in purchase of dental chairs.
Museum,.....           500.00
Women's Gymnasium,......    200.00
Additional salary of instructor,...  500.00
Waterman Gymnasium, current expenses,...  500.00
General Library, current expenses,....   600.00
Changing classification,....  200.00
New  cases,.....      75.00oo
University Hospital, current expenses,..  I2,480.00
Additional for summer vacation,....  2,000.00
Homceopathic College and Hospital,...  4,722.00
Additional for summer vacation,..  I,000.00
Department of Medicine and Surgery,...  500oo.oo
Hygiene,.....          2,500.00
Physiology, current expenses,.....  300.00
Lantern,.             75.00
Histology, current expenses,.....  6oo.oo
Lantern,..                       75.oo
Anatomical material,......   3,000.00
Anatomical Departmetnt, current expenses,... 360.00
Lantern,......         75-00
Ophthalmology, current expenses,.... 60.oo
Increase of salary of demonstrator,... 200.00
Materia medica, current expenses,.... 504.00
Lantern,......         75-00
Increase in Dr. Matthews' salary,....  200.00
Pathology, current expenses,.....  500.00
Increase of Dr. Warthin's salary,   300.... 3 00oooo
Theory and Practice of Medicine,..... 80.oo
Second assistant,.....   200.00
Electrotherapeutics,......    500.00
Nervous Diseases, current expenses,.... 50.00
Increase in demonstrator's salary,..  200.00




JUNE MfEETING, 1897.


65


Surgical Demonstrations, current expenses,
Second assistant,..
Diseases of Women and Children, current expenses,.
Increase of demonstrator's salary,
Dermatology,...
Increase in Dr. Breakey's salary,.
General Chemistry, repairs,.
Lantern,...
Additional instructor,
Increase in Dr. Sherman's salary,
Contingent,..
Repairs,...
Fuel and light,...
Postage,..
Printing,..
Hospital reports,.
Summer School,..
Insurance,.
Water supply,......
Carpenter Shop, supplies,.
School inspection,..
Commencement expenses,.
Diplomas,.....
Care of teams,.
Books for libraries,....
Additional nurses in hospitals,.
General pay roll,.....
On motion the Board took a recess until


296.00
200.00
II7.00
200.00
50.00
400.00
235.00
75.00
*  6oo.oo
300.00
8,0oo.00
8,000.00
20,000.00
1,200.00
3,000.00
5o0.oo
5,000.00
500.00
i,6oo.oo
500.00
500.00
6oo.oo
1,200.00
500.00
15,000.00
200.00
284,315.00
421,395.00
o'clock, P. IM.


AFTERNOON       SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock, P. M.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds was authorized to purchase of Mr.
Gilchrist, of Cleveland, Ohio, one car of lumber for use on
the Campus, by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Barbour moved that appointments, reappointments, and changes in salary be made in the Department of
Law, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty,
as follows:




66


JJUCNIEf /If- 7zVG, 1897.


That Judge Victor H. Lane, C.E., LL.B., be a)ppointed
resident Fletcher Professor of Law to fill the place made
vacant by the resignation of Professor Levi 'iT. (;riffin, at a
salary of '$2,500.
That a Professorship of Conveyancing- )e established in
the Law Department and that James H. Brewster, A.1B., be
appointed to the chair at a salary of $2,500.
That Acting Professor I-I. L. Wilgus, M.S., be imade Professor of Law at a salary of $2,000.
That Assistant Professor Elias F. Johnson, B.S., LL.M.,
be made Professor of Law, and Secretary of the Law Faculty,
at a salary of $2,000.
That the salary of Professor Floyd. R. Mechem, A.M., be
made $3,000 provided he remain a resident professor.
That A. V. McAlvay, A.B., LL.B., be aL)pointed Acting
Professor of Law for one year, at a salary of $1,000ooo.
That Thomas W. Dwver, LL.M., and Thomas W. Hughes,
LL.M., be reappointed Instructors in L.aw for one year at a
salary of $900 each.
That Albert J. Farrah, LL.B., be appointed Instructor in
Law at a salary of $6oo.
That Mrs. Merrie H. Abbott be appointed Clerk of the
Practice Court for one year at a salary of $Ioo.
That the following non-resident lecturers be reappointed
for one year:
Henry H. Swan, A.M., Lecturer on Admiralty, at a salary
of $350.
James L. Hiigh, LL.D., Iecturer on Injunctions and
Receivers, at a salary of $400.
Melville M. Bigelow, Ph.D., Lecturer on Insurance, at a
salary of $500.
John B. Clayberg, LL.B., Lecturer on Miningi  Law. at a
salary of $3oo.
Frank F. Reed, A.B., Lecturer on Copyright ILaw, at a
salary of $ioo.
Albert H. Walker, LL.B., Lecturer on Patent Law, at a
salary of $300.




JUNAE METETING, 1897.


67


And that the following resident lecturers be reappointed
for one year without salary:
Thomas M. Cooley, LL.D., Lecturer on Interstate Commerce.
Andrew C. McLaughlin, A.B., LL.B., Lecturer on Constitutional Law and Constitutional History.
Victor C. Vaughan, Ph.D., M.D., Lecturer on Toxicology
in its Legal Relations.
Richard Hudson, A.M., Lecturer on Comparative Constitutional Law.
Henry C. Adams, Ph.D., Lecturer on the Railroad Problem.
Clarence L. Meader, A.B., Lecturer on Roman Law.
A call vote was taken on Regent Barbour's motion which
resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Barbour Instructor C. L. Meader
was granted leave of absence for one year, his salary to lapse
during, his absence.
In consideration of the Legislature having granted $3000
a year for the purpose of keeping the Hospitals of the University open during the summer vacation, Regent Kiefer moved
that the Hospitals be kept open, and that the Superintendents
be requested to submit a detailed statement of needed repairs,
and of material needed to thoroughly disinfect the buildings
and put them in good condition during the vacation.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, and Farr.
Nays-Regents Barbour and Fletcher.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following communication from Professor I. N. Demmon:
Ann Arbor, June 2, 1897.
TO THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
I am happy to inform you that through the generosity of Hon. Dexter
M. Ferry, of Detroit, the English department has been able to add to the




68


JUNE MlIEETIN;G, 1897.


General Library a choice copy of Wordsworth's "I)escriptive Sketches,"
I793. This was among the very earliest publications of this great poet,
and is a valuable addition to our apparatus for the critical study of the
author. The cost was sixteen pounds sterling.
Respectfully submitted,
ISAAC N. DI)IEMMON.
The following appointments and reappointments were
made in the Literary and the Engineering Departments by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
George W. Patterson, Jr., A.M., S.B., is continued as
Assistant Professor of Physics for one year, at the salary of
$i,6oo, but from October I, i898, is to have the rank and pay
of Junior Professor of Physics.
The following were reappointed for three years from October ist next:
John 0. Reed, Ph.M., Assistant Professor of Physics,
at a salary of $i,6oo.
Alfred H. Lloyd, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy,
at a salary of $i,6oo.
George 0. Higley, M.S., and David M. Lichty, M.S., Instructors in General Chemistry, at a salary of $1,200 each.
The following were reappointed for one year:
W. H. Wait, Ph.D., Instructor in Greek, Latin and Sanskrit, with an increase of salary to $1,200.
J. W. Glover, Ph.D., Instructor in Mathematics, at a
salary of $900.
L. A. Strauss, Ph.M., Instructor in English, at a salary of
$900.
E. C. Goddard, Ph.B., Instructor in Mathematics, at a
salary of $900.
H. J. Goulding, B.S., Instructor in Descriptive Geometry
and Drawing, at a salary of $900.
V. E. Fran9ois, Instructor in French, at a salary of $900.




JUNE MEETI77G,,197.


69


0. E. Lessing, A.B., Instructor in German, at a salary of
$900.
J. R. Allen, B.S., M.E., Instructor in Mechanical Engineering, at a salary of $9oo.
J. T. Faig, M.E., Instructor in Mechanical Engineering,
at a salary of $700.
Alice L. Hunt, Assistant in Drawing, at a salary of $750.
S. I). Townley, M.S., Instructor in Astronomy, at a salary
of $900.
F. P. Jordan, A.B., Assistant in General Library, in charge
of Catalogue, at a salary of $1,200.
B. A. Finney, A.B., Assistant in General Library, in
charge of Circulation, at a salary of $1,200.
The following new appointments were made:
E. C. Roedder, A.M., Instructor in German, at a salary of
$900.
Alfred H. White, A.B.. Instructor in Chemical Technology,
at a salary of $900.
Walter Dennison, A.M., Instructor in Latin, at a salary
of $900.
Henry F. I,. Reichle, A.M., Instructor in Latin, at a
salary of $900.
Carroll D. Jones, B.S., E.E., Instructor in Electrical Engineering, at a salary of $900.
J. S. P. Tatlock, Instructor in English, at a salary of $900.
Fanny E. Langdon, B.S., Instructor in Botany, at a
salary of $900.
Burton E. Livingston, Assistant in Botany, at a salary of
$150.
Arthur H. Benefiel, Assistant in Botany, at a salary of
$100.
On motion of Regent Barbour it was voted that one half
the time of the new Instructor in French be given to the work
of the German department.
On motion of Regent Barbour Professor C. G. Taylor
was made Superintendent of Shops under the direction of the
Dean of the Engineering Department only.




70               JUNE MEETING, I897.
On motion of Regent Cocker the bids for furnishing the
University coal for the ensuing year were referred to the Building Committee with power to award the contract.
On motion of Regent Dean the sum of $245 was appropriated for the purpose of constructing a fire proof room in
the Museum for alcoholic specimens.
On motion the Board adjourned to Monday June 28.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




JUNE MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, I
ANN ARBOR, June 28, I897.
The Board assembled in the room of the President at 10
o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Barbour, Cocker, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher,
and Farr.
Absent, Regents Cook and Butterfield.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Barbour, approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry papers which had reached the President were
referred to appropriate committees of the Board for consideration.
Regent Barbour moved that the appointment of Assistant
Professor G. W. Patterson as Junior Professor to take effect
October ist, I898 [Proceedings, Page 68], be changed to take
effect October ist, i897. It was so ordered by a full vote of
the Board.
On motion of Regent Dean, it was voted that the unexpended balance of the fund set apart last year for work on the
General Catalogue be continued another year for the same
purpose.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the appropriation for the
purchase of books for the year i897-8 was divided among the
Departments as follows:
For the General Library.  $......................... I10,750.00
For the  M edical  Library..................................  1,500.00
For the  Law   Library.....................................  2,25C.00
For the  Dental Library....................................  250.00
For the  Homoeopathic  Library.............................  250.00
$15,000ooo00




72


JUNE MEETING, 1897.


Regent Barbour moved that the Administrative Board be
permitted to use Room 6A in Tappan Hall jointly with Professor Pettee, and asked that the motion lie on the table until
afternoon, which was so ordered.
Regent Barbour moved that the Mineralogical Collection
be removed from Room 5 in Tappan Hall and placed in the
basement and that the room so vacated be used for recitation
purposes.
The motion was referred to the Building Committee for
consideration.
Professor Spalding submitted a plan for the extension of
the Botanical Garden on the Campus, which was, on motion,
referred to the Committee on Buildings and Grounds.
On motion of Regent Barbour, John E. Granrud, Ph.D.,
was appointed Assistant in Latin for one year without cormpensation.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following communication from the Dean of the Engineering Department,
and the recommendation was adopted by the full vote of the
Board.
Ann Arbor, June 28, 1897.
TO THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
I am directed by the Faculty of the Department of Engineering to
request that the Resolution in regard to a Fee of Five Dollar-s for Entrance
Examinations at other than regular dates, lately passed by your Honorable
Board, be extended to apply to the Department of Engineering.
Respectfully submitted,
CHAS. E. GREENE, Dean.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, it was voted that the investigation of the Anatomical Department be taken up at 3 o'clock
this afternoon.
The Board then took a recess until 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON        SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock and went into executive session, Regent Cook being present.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Regents Farr and Butter



JUNE MEE TING, i 97.


73


field were appointed a committee to take up with the Auditor
General the question of handling the University moneys from
the State and from other sources.
The Board spent some time in discussing matters relating
to the Anatomical Department, but without action adjourned
to 8 o'clock P. M.
EVENING       SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 8 o'clock P. M. in executive
session, and resumed consideration of the question relating to
differences which had arisen between the Professor and the
Assistant Professor of Anatomy. After both parties had been
given a hearing, and a full exchange of opinions by the members of the Board, Regent Kiefer moved that the chair of
Assistant Professor of Anatomy be abolished after October ist
next.
Regent Dean offered the following substitute for Regent
Kiefer's motion:
Resolved, That the Professor and Assistant Professor of Anatomy be
requested to resign their positions, said resignations to take effect October
1st next, and that the President and the Medical Committee be empowered to
fill the vacancies.
A call vote being taken, Regent Dean's resolution was
lost as follows:
Ayes-Regent Dean.
Nays-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Kiefer, Fletcher, and Farr.
Regent Cook not voting.
A vote was then taken on the original motion of Regent
Kiefer which was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Kiefer, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-Regent Dean.
Regent Cook not voting.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the Assistant Demonstrator,
S. M. Yutzy, M.D., was made Demonstrator and Instructor of
Anatomy at a salary of $1,200, for one year, by the following
vote:




*74


JUNE MEETING, 8897.


Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
Regent Cook not voting.
On motion of Regent Farr, it was voted that the taxes of
1894 on Lot D, in the city of Detroit, be paid.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Secretary was authorized
to provide fifty recitation seats (250 sittings) for use in room
C, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Cook, Regent Dean and the Secretary were authorized to purchase ground in the Fifth Ward
Cemetery, or elsewhere, for the purpose of burying anatomical
material.
The Director of the Chemical Laboratory recommended
the following appointments for one year:
Perry F. Trowbridge, Ph.B., to be reappointed Instructor
in Organic Chemistry and Accountant in the Chemical Laboratory at a salary of $900.
Herman E. Brown, B.S., to be reappointed Assistant in
Qualitative Analysis at a salary of $500.
Archibald Campbell, Ph.B., to be reappointed as Assistant
in Qualitative Chemistry at a salary of $200.
J. G. VanZwaluwenburg, to be reappointed Assistant in
Qualitative Chemistry at a salary of $200.
Charles L. Bliss, B.S., to be reappointed Assistant in
Physiological Chemistry at a salary of $i96.
Moses Gomberg, Sc.D., to be appointed Instructor in
Organic Chemistry at a salary of $1,200.
William H. Hess, to be appointed Assistant in Organic
Chemistry without salary.
On motion of Regent Dean the foregoing appointments
were made by the following vote:
Ayes —Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr..
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer moved that the following reappointments
be made in the Dental Department for one year:




JUNE MEETING, 1897.


75


Louis P. Hall, D.D.S., Instructor in Dental Anatomy,
Operative Technique, and Clinical Operative Dentistry, at a
salary of $900.
A. W. Haidle, D.D.S., Demonstrator of Dental Mechanism at a salary of $700.
C. G. Darling, M.D., Clinical Lecturer on Oral Pathology
and Surgery at a salary of $300.
Frank E. Logan, Assistant in Operative and Clinical
Dentistry at a salary of $500.
The foregoing appointments were made by the following
vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Charles A. Rabethge,
M.D., was reappointed Instructor in the Gymnasium for one
year at a salary of $i,ooo, by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following communication from the Faculty of the Department of Literature,
Science, and the Arts:
TO THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
GENTLEMEN:-I have the honor to report to your honorable body that
the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts have
recommended the following named students to you for the degrees indicated as follows:
BACHELOR OF LETTERS.


Mary Josephine Anderson,
Grace Franauer Bammel,
Rush Banks,
Charles Daniel Brandriff,
Myrtle May Bruner,
Ray Haddock Burrell,
Harry Arthur Cole,
Karl Gustave Dahlstrom,
Robert Louis Dean,
Anne Stuart Duncan,
Mary Louise Engelhard,
James Harmon Flinn,
Frances Alma Foster,
Dorcas Hedden,
Leonidas Hubbard, Jr.,


Edwin Haynes Humphrey,
DeWitt Clinton Huntoon,
Harrison Clarke Jackson,
Grace Lord Lamb,
Alva Eden Lyon,
Ralph Clark Mason,
Stanley M. Matthews,
Charles Hubert Mooney,
Benjamin Carl Morse,
Victor Alphonso George
Murrell, LL.B.,
Milton Ray Parmelee,
John H. Petrie,
William Gilbert Povey,
Minerva Belle Rhines,




76


JUNE MEETING, 8907.


Herbert Matteson Rich,        Sidney Beach Tremble,
Shirley Wheeler Smith,        Monna Julia Tucker,
Frank Adams Stivers, LL.B.,   Nellie Margaret Walters,
Martha Theressa Sturgis,      Jean Watson Wilson,
Mary Maclean Thompson,        Jedediah Foss Woolley,
Daniel Hubbard Wright.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN BIOLOGY).


Georgia Farrand Bacon,
Edgar Bates,
Maurice Buford Bonta,
Eva May Bowen,
Juliet Morton Butler,
Paul A. Cowgill,
Nellie Myra Hayes,


George Darwin Jennings,
Clarence Haskell Lander,
Norman J. Miller,
William Wilmon Newcomb,
Floyd Hamilton Randall,
Bertha Marion Sherwood,
Wesley Ewing Taylor.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN CHEMISTRY).
Stephen Cone Babcock,        Armand Rudolph Miller,
Edwin Bret Hart,             Curt Rosenow,
James Heggie,                Firman Thompson,
John Blaine Keating,         John David Wombacher.
Edward M. McElroy, B.S., MIichigan Agr. College,
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN GENERAl, SCIENCE).


Elmer Sereno Bassett,
James Lehi Brown,
May Morton Butler,
Eda May Clark, B.L.,
Edna Marie Holbrook,
Berton James Howard,
William Marshall,
Allen Birch Martin,


Charles Brainerd Paddock,
Edna Littlefield Paddock,
John Frederick Rieman,
Burns Lyonel Schuster,
Murray Maywood Sears, M.D.,
Frederick Max Tschirner,
Theresa Gertrude Williamson,
Elizabeth Zahner.


BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY.


Romanzo Colfax Adams,
Lewis Burton Alger,
Nellie Florence Anderson,
Edwin Jenison Bement,
Ivaleta Boice,
Louise Marks Breitenbach,
Ima Gould Briggs,
Edward Thomas Brown,
Sara Spencer Browne,
Frederick Magnus Butzel,
Charles Frisbie Chubb,
Henrietta Marian Dalley, Ph.B.,
McKendree Coll., M.S., ibid.,
Effie Lynch Danforth,
Samuel Hanson Dowden,


Amelia Tertia Farnsworth,
Gustave Herman Ferbert,
Oceana Ferrey,
Bertha May Fish,
Dora Clementine Fisher,
Ella May Fitch,
Homer Redfield Foster,
Edward Francis Gee,
Faith Holt Gilbert,
Ida Mabel Hodgdon,
Julia Mott Hodge,
Bell Krolik,
Theodore Charles Lyster,
Katie Elizabeth McFadzean,
Edward Hiram Storms Martin,




JUXE MIEETIXG, i897.
Grace Grieve Millard,          William Barrett Rich,
Julia Louise Morey,            Charlotte Jeannette Roberts,,.
Martin William Numbers,        Louise Lunsford Loving Roberts,
Belle Lucinda Otis,            Ellen Chapin Rogers,
Alice Cary Patten,             John Rawlins Sheean,
Julia Pike,                    Arthur Maurice Smith,
Lewis Clark Plant,             Ralph Cone Taggart,
Klaas Poppen,                  Jennie Patterson \Vhite,
Jennie May Price,              Frances Sarah Wilcox,
Morrison Colyer Woodard.
BACHELOR OF ARTS.


77


Bayard Hoyt Ames,
Frederick Charles Ballard,
Bertha Emily Barber,
Ida Leora Barber,
Mary Bartol, A.M., Bucknell Unzivelrsity,
Boyd Bode, A.B., Penn College,
Mabel Bosworth,
Robert Collyer Bourland,
Orma Fitch Butler,
Albert Alexis Campbell,
Roy Bishop Canfield,
Laura Augusta Carpenter,
John Robert Crouse,
Harold Hunter Emmons,
George Ernest Frazer,
William Henry Gleysteen,
Fred Heffelbower,
Annie Louise Hill,
Isadore Leon Hill,
Charles Parkyn Hlulce, A.B., Hili
dale College,
Lambert Lincoln Jackson,
Grace Wheeler Jennings,
Jessie Keith,
Edna Baldwin Kenton,
Annie Dorcas Kimlin,
William Archie Kishpaugh,
Max Levitt,
John Hancock McClellan,


John Brower McCreery,
Susan Laura McKee,
Anna Thome McLauchlan,
Adolph Irvine Marx,
William August Mogk,
Clinton Samuel Osborn,
Marion Adelia Otis,
Harry G. Paul,
Inez Christabel Perrin,
Dorothy Belle Poppy,
Orlando Schairer Reimold,
Henry Ormal Severance,
Joseph Sill,
Katharyne Griffith Sleneau,
Hervey Montgomery Smith,
Jessie Hunter Smith,
John Cecil Spaulding,
Albert Henry Stoneman,
Edson Read Sunderland,
Richard Huss Sutphen,
's- George Robert Swain,
Frederick Tyndall Swan,
Ida Bell Tenney,
Lillian Medora Tompkins,
Paul Harold Vernor,
Grace Bunting Wallace,
Charles Lee Watson,
Stella Westcott,
Sara Louise Wheeler,
Roland Dare Whitman,


Benjamin George Wilkinson.
MASTER OF LETTERS.
Verdie Jane Baker McKee, B.L.
MASSTER OF SCIENCE.
Louis Begemann, B.S.,          Charles Edward Everett, B.L.,
Samuel Richard Cook, B.S.,     Fanny Elizabeth Langdon, B.S.,
Edna Daisy Day, B.S.,          William Adams Lewis, B.S.,
Clayton Amos Peters, B.S.




78


JUNE MEETING, 1897.


MASTER OF PHILOSOPHY.


Mary Joice&'Adams, Ph.B.,
Jennie Claire Anderson, Ph.B.,
Oberlin College,
Georgiana Cleis Blunt, Ph.B.,


Ella Bourne, Ph.B., De Pauzw Univ.,
Harriett Elvira McKinstry, Ph.B.,
Lois Azubah McMahon, Ph.B.,
Lura Wallace Tozer, Ph.B.


MASTER OF ARTS.


Charles Wallace Adams, A.B.,
Alice Brown, A.B.,
Emma Jane Chesney, A.B., Kalamazoo College,
Charles Henry Cole, A.B.,
Charles Hall Cook, A.B., B.D.,
Chicago Thzeol. Semz.,
Carl Herbert Cooper, A.B., Upper
Iowa University,
Charles Albert Farnam, A.B.,


Ellen Ann Kennan, A.B.,
Anna Willard Locke, A.B., WVellesley College,
Aura Maud Miller, B.L.,
Erastus Devillo Palmer, A.B.,
Hillsdale 'College,
Bessie Bingham Stevens, A.B.,
James Wellings Sturgis, A.B.,
Louise Bradford Swift, A.B.,
Wellesley College,


Samuel Allen Jeffers, A.B., Central Elbert Wood, A.B., Olivet College.
Wesleyan College,
DOCTOR OF SCIENCE.
James Barkley Pollock, M.S., Uni- Sidney Dean Townley, M.S., University of Wisconsin,        versily of Wisconsin.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY.
Ira Dudley Travis, Ph.B., Albion  Mary Gilmore Williams, A.B,
College,
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DE PONT, Registrar.
On motion of Regent Barbour the degrees recommended
in the foregoing communication were conferred upon the persons named therein in accordance with the recommendation
of the Faculty.
Regent Barbour presented the following communication
from the Faculty of the Law Department, and the degrees
therein recommended were conferred upon the persons indicated, by the full vote of the Board.
Ann Arbor, Mich., June 28, I897.
TO THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN:
GENTLEMEN:-The Faculty of the Department of Law of the University respectfully 'recommend that the degree of Bachelor of Laws be
conferred upon the following candidates, they having completed all the
prescribed work for such degree:




JUNE M'EETING, 8977.


79


Charles Francis Abbott, A.B.,
Dartmouth College,
Charles Steward Abbott,
Clarence William Aird, LL.B.,
Detroit College of Law,
Max Wellington Babb, A.B., Iowa
Wesleyan University,
Grant Charles Bagley,
August Hostetter Baer, LL.B.,
McicKendree College,
Henry Robert Baird,
Charles Loughead Bartlett,
Thomas Albert Berkebile,
James 11. Blackburn,
Frank William Boss,
Walter Marion Chandler,
Roy Roscoe Coombs,
Herbert Allan Dancer, B.L.,
Luther Ferguson Donahey,
Thomas Jesse Drumheller,
Charles Wesley Eastman,
Freeman Field,
Delbert E. Ford,
Robert M. Fouts, B.S., Ohio Wesleyan University,
Harry Yershelle Freedman, LL.B.,
Oregon University,
Albert John Galen, LL.B., Notre
Dame University,
Ransom Gardner George, A.B.,
James Sumner Handy, A.B.,
David N. Harper,
William Lincoln Hart,


Henry Nephi Hayes,
Charles Wilford Hills,
Albert Kocourek,
Charles Thomas Lawton,
William Morris Long, B.S., Adrian
College,
Arthur William Lux,
Harry Albertus Miller,
Charles Martin Milroy, B.S., Ohio
NVormal University,
Karl Roswell Miner,
Charles Leroy Moore,
James Timothy Norris,
Jesse Francis Orton, A.B., A.M.,
Cornell University,
William Henry Padley,
Bayard Tamannund Riley,
Albert Thomas Rogers, Jr.,
Emmett Chauncey Ryan, Ph.B.,
Scio College,
Duane Charles Salisbury,
Claud Ebenezer Sheldon, Ph.B.,
Hiram College,
Frederick B. Stanley, A.B., Earlham College,
Clare Hart Stearns,
Archibald Stevenson, B.S., Purdue
University,
James Edward Truesdale, A.M.,
University of Wooster,
Edward Francis Wehrle, Ph.B.,
University of Iowa,
Charles Ezra White,


Roy Hughes Williams.
And that the degree of Master of Laws be conferred upon the following persons:
Robert Meador Barnett, LL.B.,  John Marr O'Connor, LL.B.,
OctaviaWilliams Bates, A.B.,LL.B., Edgar Paul O'Leary, LL.B.,
Orien S. Cross, LL.B.,         Bradshaw Hall Swales, LL.B.,
George Patterson Kelly, LL.B.,  Henry Milton Wallace, LL.B.,
Victor Alphonso George Murrell,  Guy Voorhees Williams, LL.B.
LL.B.,
Respectfully submitted,
H. B. HUTCHINS, Dean.
Regent Dean presented and read the following colmmunication from the Faculty of the Department of Engineering.




80


JUNE. MEETING, 1897.


TO THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
GENTLEMEN:-I have the honor to report to your Honorable Body
that the Faculty of the Engineering Department have recommended to
you the following students for the degrees indicated:
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING).


Mark Bary,
Arthur Woodward Birdsall,
Deward Augustus Britten,
Emmons Collins,
Henry Thomas Harrison,
Frederick William Henninger,
Loomis Hutchinson,
Carlyle Kittredge,
John Gurdon Lewis,
John Harold Montgomery,


Lyman Foote Morehouse,
Charles John Holland Moritz,
William Frederick Valentine NeuGeorge Charles Pratt,    [mann,
Arthur Charles Tagge,
Melvin Sutphin Trevidick,
Frederick Elwood Vickers,
Theodore Vlademiroff,
Roy Rodney Wiley,
Walter Heman Woods.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING).


Fred Louis Baker,
Melancthon Woolsey Campau,
Ralph Collamore,
Wilbert Sheperd Drew,
Thaddeus Loomis Farnham,
Elmer Daniel Lyon,
Thomas Francis McCrickett,
William Freeman Martin,


Joseph Perrien, B.S., AMiich.
Agr. Coll.,
Francis Joseph Seabolt,
Charles Gilchrist Simonds,
Emil G. Struckman,
Alexander George Unsold,
Charles Delmar Webster,
Irving Charles Woodward.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN CIVIL ENGINEERING).


Frederick Henry Burdick,
Elmer Mvron Ellsworth,
Henry Geismer,
Melvin Albertus Gilbert,


Henry Evans Moore,
William Harrison Rippey,
Frederic Coleman Roberts, B.S.,
Earl/tam College.


MASTER OF SCIENCE.
Henry Lumsden Woolfenden, B.S.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEER.
Carroll Dunham Jones, B.S.
MECHANICAL ENGINEER.
Charles Hosmer Morse, Jr., B.S.
CIVIL ENGINEER.


Charles Cottingham, B.C.E.,
Purdue University,


Louis Henry Shoemaker, B.S.


Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DE PONT, Registrar.




JUNE MEETING, '897.


81


I have also the honor to request your Honorable Body, according
to the recommendation of the Faculty of the Engineering Department,
to excuse from attendance at Commencement Mr. Charles Cottingham
and Mr. Louis H. Shoemaker, candidates for the degree of Civil Engineer,
who are unable to attend.       Respectfully,
P. R. DE PONT,
Registrar Engineering Department.
On motion of Regent Dean, the degrees recommended in
the foregoing communication were conferred upon the persons
indicated by a full vote of the Board.
Regent Dean presented the following communication
from the Faculty of the School of Pharmacy.
Ann Arbor, Michigan, June 28, 1897.
To THE HONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS:
By direction of the Faculty of the School of Pharmacy, I beg leave to
report that the following named students have completed all of the requirements for the degrees indicated:
PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST.
Frederick James Austin,        Nelson Alonzo Hall,
Eva Albertie Taylor Bachelder,  Louis Theodor Wilhelm Hogrefe,
John Sell Bachman,             John William Lutes,
Frederick J. Baringer,         Clara Ella Nichols,
Evi Dunn Benjamin,            Walter Adams Nivling,
Norman Taylor Boggess,         William Henry Noll,
James William Cobb,            S. Agnes Rich,
Otis Adams Critchett,          Sara Esther Richter,
Edward Cumberford Frank,       Harry Schellhous Stoddard,
Edward Sherman Gott,           Amos Dorwin Sturgis,
Charles Linden Wagner.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN PHARMACY).
Walter Briggs Cady, Ph.C.,     Benjamin Lindley Murray, Ph.C.,
Ezra Jones Ware, Ph.C.
Respectfully submitted.
A. B. STEVENS, Sec.
On motion of Regent Dean, it was ordered that the
degrees indicated be conferred upon the persons named in the
foregoing communication, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the following communication from   the Faculty of the Department of Medicine
and Surgery.




82


JUNE MEETING, 1897.


Tuesday, June 29, I897,
Department of Medicine and Surgery,
TO THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
GENTLEMEN:-I am instructed to inform    you that the following
named students have completed the required work in the Department of
Medicine and Surgery and are hereby recommended. for the degree of
Doctor of Medicine:
Otto Carl Ahlers,              John Henry Kincaid,
Susan Anderson,                James Rollin Kingsley,
Harry Brown Britton,           David Herman Lando,
Alice Crawford Brown, A.B.,    Frederick Percy Lawton,
Vassar College,            Anna Willard Locke, A.B.,
Hortense Valentine Bruce,          Wellesley College,
Mary Kate Byington,            Homer Garrison Long,
Claudius Bidleman Chapin, B.S.,  William Beatty Lunn,
Mich. Agsr. Coll.,         Jessie Fremont Ruby McNeal, B.S.,
Albert Ambler Church, A.B.,    John Albert Mapes, B.S.,
Oberlin College,               Olivet College,
Abbott Lathrop Cooley,         Albert Beekman Mills,
Arthur Samuel Cornell,         Morris Morrison,
Mary Agnes Dangel,             Hugh Mulheron,
Hester Sophia Antionette Davies, Charles Chesterfield Nicola, B.S.,
Joseph Trower Davies,          Charles Hannibal Nims, A.B.,
Herman Russell Dewey, Ph.M.,       Oberlin College,
Hillsdale College,         Marion Nute,
Stowell Barnard Dudley, Ph.B.,  George Drinan Perkins,
Oberlin College,           Carlin Philips,
Edward Samuel Fogg,            Ferdinand Henry Pirnat,
Orrin Henry Freeland,          George Hampton Putney,
Neil Alexander Gates,          Henry Christian Schoepfle,
Charles B. Gauss,              Raymond Duane Sleight,
Ralph Nevin Gorden,            Georgia Smeallie, B.L., B.S.,
Albert Culver Hammett,         Paul Smits,
Charles William Hartloff, A.B.,  William Albert Spitzley, A.B.,
Indiana Univ.,             Isaac Franklin Steiner,
Edward Palestine Hawkins,      Willard Stiles Stevens,
Rudolph Bernhard Hoermann, A.B., John Benjamin Thielen,
Northlwestern Univ.,       George Barclay Wallace,
George Aloysius Hofstetter,    Harry Clark Watkins,
Mary Myrtle Pennington Hunter, Arthur Eddy West,
Howard Aiken Ijams, B.S.,      Jean Calista Harris Whitney,
Univ. of Tennessee,        Edward Peyton Wilbur,
Noah Harrison Jackson,         William Henry Witter,
Benjamin William Kelly,        James Rupert Wolfenden, B.S.,
Carrie Jane Young.
Very respectfully,
WM. A. CAMPBELL, Sec'y of Faculty.




JUNE MEETING, 1897.


83


On motion of Regent Kiefer, the degree of Doctor of
Medicine was conferred upon the persons named in the foregoing communication in accordance with the recommendation
of the Faculty.
On motion of Regent Barbour, W. J. Herdman, M. D.,
was appointed Lecturer in the Law Department on Neurology,
Electrology, and Railway Injuries, for one year, without
salary.
On motion of Regent Barbour the following appointments
and reappointments were made in the Literary Department:
George Rebec, Ph.B., Instructor in Philosophy for three
years, at a salary of $1,200.
Frank R. Lillie, Ph.D., Instructor in Zoology for three
years, at a salary of $1,200.
Penoyer L. Sherman, Ph.D., Instructor in General Chemistry for one year, at a salary of $900.
Arthur Lachman, Ph.D., Instructor in General Chemistry
for one year, at a salary of $600.
Frederick A. Leas, Laboratory Assistant in Chemistry for
one year, at a salary of $300.
Charles H. Gray, M.L., Assistant in English for one year,
at a salary of $300.
Edgar E. Brandon, A.B., Instructor in French, half time
for one year, at a salary of $450.
John E. Lautner, M.L., Instructor in German, half time
for one year, at a salary of $450.
J. B. Johnston, Ph.B., Instructor in Zoology for one year,
at a salary of $500.
Juliet M. Butler, B.S., Assistant in Zoology for one year,
at a salary of $300.
John H. McClellan, A.B., Assistant in Zoology for one
year, at a salary of $200.
Ernest Cleverdon, Assistant in Zoology for one year, at a
salary of $200.
A. J. Foster, Assistant in the Museum for one year, at a
salary of $I50.




84


JUNE MEETING, 1897.


The foregoing appointments were made by the following
vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Hiram N. Orr was appointed
Assistant in Histology for one year, at a salary of $300; Orrin
H. Freeland, Assistant to the Chair of Gynxecology and Obstetrics in the Department of Medicine and Surgery for one
year, without salary, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
Regent Dean submitted the following memorandum of
an agreement between the Board of Regents and Henry Ives
Cobb, Architect, of Chicago, which was adopted by the Board,
and the President and the Secretary were authorized to sign
the same in the name of the Board:
This memorandum of an agreement made................. 1897,
between Mr. Henry Ives Cobb, architect, a resident of the city of Chicago,
party of the first part, and the Regents of the University of Michigan, party
of the second part, witnesseth:
The said Henry Ives Cobb, party of the first part, agrees to prepare
and furnish to the party of the second part a preliminary sketch and plan
of a building designed for an Art Gallery, and a preliminary sketch and
plan for a building designed for a Recitation Hall, said plans and sketches
to be used in securing funds with which the aforesaid buildings may be
erected.
The party of the second part agrees, in case funds can be secured for
either or both the aforesaid buildings, with the help of the preliminary plans
and sketches furnished by the party of the first part, and said plans are
accepted by the Board and by the person or persons furnishing the funds
for the erection of said building or buildings, that the said party of the first
part, and he alone, shall be engaged as architect of the aforesaid building,
to prepare and furnish detail drawings and specifications as above indicated,
and to perform the duties ordinarily performed by architects in the erection
of monumental buildings; furthermore, that the said party of the first part,
on furnishing the detail drawings and specifications as above indicated, or
at such other time as may be mutually agreed upon, shall receive compen



JUNE MEETING, 1897.


85


sation for his services in accordance with the schedule of the "American
Institute of Architects " hereto attached.
Signed:
Party of the first part........................................................................................................
Party of the second part.
Witnesses:
Regent Cook presented and read the following communication from the Faculty of the Homoeopathic Medical College.
TO THE HONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS.
GENTLEMEN:-I am directed by the Faculty to report that the following persons have completed all the requirements in the Homoeopathic
Medical College, and are hereby recommended for the degree of Doctor of
Medicine.
Very respectfully,
R. S. COPELAND, Sec'y of Faculty.
William Grant Decker,           Murray Maywood Sears, M.D.,
Albert Jeremiah Elliott,        Charles Martin Steele.
Leonard Herbert Stewart, Ph.B., Kalamazoo Coll.
On motion of Regent Cook, the degree of Doctor of
Medicine was conferred upon the persons named in the foregoing communication in accordance with the recommendation
of the Faculty.
Regent Cook submitted the following communication and
schedule of work from the Homoeopathic Medical Faculty:
Ann Arbor, June 2, I897.
TO THE HONORABLE THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
GENTLEMEN:-The Faculty of this Department direct me to ask you
that they be permitted to do all the didactic and text-book work of the
senior and junior years for the Hlomceopathic students.
The only change that is necessitated by this plan is that the work in
pathology (not including laboratory courses) may be made a part of the
chair of practice.
We recommend that the course in this Department be changed in
accordance with the enclosed corrected schedule.
In case the above request is granted, L. H. Stewart Ph.B., is recommended as assistant to the Chair of Theory and Practice.
Respectfully submitted,
W. B. HINSDALE.




86


JUNE MEETING, 1897.
SCHEDULE.
THIRD YEAR.
LECTURES AND RECITATIONS IN THIRD YEAR.
Time Required.


Subjects.


Minor Gynaecology,                         I hour a week.
Major Gynaecology,                         2 hours a week.
Obstetrics,                                2 hours a week.
Surgery,                                  3 hours a week.
Theory and Practice,                      3 hours a week.
Ophthalmology, Otology, and Laryngology,  3 hours a week.
Materia Medica,                            4 hours a week.
Pathological Histology, 2 hours a week for first semester, I hour a week
for second semester.
LABORATORY WORK IN THIRD YEAR.


Subjects.
Practical Pathology,


Time Required.
Every day for 5 weeks.


CLINICAL COURSES IN THIRD YEAR.
Subjects.                                Time Required.
General Medicine,                        2 hours a week.
Surgery,                                 2 hours a week.
Gynaecology,                             2 hours a week.
Ophthalmology, Otology, and Laryngology,  2 hours a week.
FOURTH YEAR.
LECTURES AND RECITATIONS IN FOURTH YEAR.


Subjects.
Theory and Practice,
Surgery,
Obstetrics and.Gynaecology,
Materia Medica and Therapeutics,
Ophthalmology, Otology, and Laryngology,
Pathology,
Mental and Nervous Diseases,
Paedology,


Time Required.
4 hours a week.
4 hours a week.
4 hours a week.
4 hours a week.
3 hours a week.
2 hours a week.
I hour a week.
I hour a week.


CXlINICAL COURSES IN FOURTH YEAR.
Subjects.                               Time Required.
General Medicine,                       I afternoon a week.
Surgery,                                2 afternoons a week.
Gynaecology,                            I afternoon a week.
Ophthalmology, Otology, and Laryngology,  2 afternoons a week.
On motion of Regent Cook the foregoing schedule was
adopted, and L. H. Stewart, Ph.B., was appointed Assistant to




JUNAE AMEETING, 1897.


87


the Chair of Theory and Practice for one year without salary,
by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer not voting.
Regent Fletcher moved that the Hlouse Surgeon in the
Homnoeopathic Hospital be paid a salary of $400.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer not voting.
Regent Kiefer submitted the following resolutions which
were adopted:
Resolved, That as soon as the revising and compiling of the regula_
tions, laws, and by-laws in effect up to date, as ordered by the Board on
motion of Regent Cook, June, 1893, and again on motion of Regent Cook,
Feb., I896, has been completed and printed, a copy of such revised and
compiled regulations, laws, and by-laws be sent by the Secretary to the Dean
of each department for the necessary instruction of its members, also one
copy to each member of the Board.
Resolved, That the committee appointed, Feb., I896, is hereby respectfully requested to report to the Board at the October meeting, I897.
Resolved, That all rules and regulations to be passed in future, and
covering one or more Professors, Junior Professors, Assistant Professors
Instructors, Demonstrators, Lecturers, or any one connected with the University, be communicated by the Secretary in writing to the Dean of the
respective departments concerned for the information of its members, by
sending a copy of the proceedings.
On motion a recess was taken until Tuesday at 2 o'clock,
P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
[TUESDAY.]
The Board reassembled Tuesday afternoon.
Regent Butterfield being present.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the following communication from the Dental Faculty:




88


JUNE IMFETING, i897.


TO THE HONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN:
The following dental students have completed the prescribed course
of instruction for the Degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery, and I am authorized by the Dental Faculty to present them to you for your action.


William Henry Baker,
Elmer Isaac Beistle,
James Carroll Blair,
June Alice Burr,
Thomas Edward Carmody,
Herbert Thurston Cummings,
Guy Henry Dennis,
Albert Julius DuBois,
Arthur Benton Dutch,
George Daniel Edgar,
Henry Christopher Fiebig,
Frank Russell Fletcher,
John E. Graham,
Selwyn Sumner Greeley,
Albert Benjamin Green,
Grant Simon Hadley,
Louis Richards Hoelzle,
Harry Sanburn Holmes,
Samuel Wesley Honey,
Fred Holloway Hood,
Frank Ward Howlett,
Samuel William Hussey,
Wendell Howard Johnson,
Frederick William Joslin,
All:
June 29, 1897.


Frederick John Klein,
Gustavus Eugene Kuhl,
Frank Dwight Loomis,
Kennith McKay,
Frank Thomas McNamara,
Roland Sweetland Mitchell,
Blaine Bowman Pettit,
William Racine Purmort,.
Carlos Walker Putt,
Oloff Wellington Randall,
Albert Jesse Reed,
Dessie Brown Robertson,
John Milton Rosenthal,
Samuel Kane Scharlott,
Arthur Walker Schurtz,
Charles Elsworth Sheldon,
Charles Lindsley Sitzer,
Luman Reed Slawson,
Charles Clifford Stone,
Delmer Willis Stoup,
Edward Leonard Vaile,
James Norman Vodrey, Jr.,
Harry Douglas Watson,
Albert Joseph Wildanger,






)ert John Wolfert.
Respectfully,
N. S. HOFF, Sec'y Dental Faculty.


On motion the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery was
conferred upon the persons indicated in the foregoing communication in accordance with the recommendation of the
Faculty.
Regent Barbour presented the following communication
from the Dean of the Department of Literature, Science, and
the Arts:
Ann Arbor, June 29, I897.
TO THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
GENTLEMEN:-I beg to tender to you my resignation as Dean of the
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to take effect as soon as
some one else shall be appointed to assume the duties of this office.
Respectfully yours,
MARTIN L. D'OOGE, Dean.




JUNE MEETING, 1897.


89


Regent Butterfield moved that the salary of Professor
D'Ooge as Dean of the Literary Department be raised to $500.
A call vote resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Dean and Butterfield.
Nays-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Regents Cook and Farr not voting.
On motion of Regent Farr the resignation of Professor
D'Ooge as Dean of the Literary Faculty was accepted.
On motion of Regent Barbour Professor Hudson was
appointed Dean of the Literary Faculty, at a salary of $300,
by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Kiefer, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
Regents Dean and Butterfield not voting.
Regent Fletcher moved that $200 be taken from the
budget fund of the Gymnasium for the purpose of putting in
additional shower baths. It was so ordered by a full vote of
the Board.
On motion of Regent Butterfield it was voted that the
Secretary notify the heads of Departments that the Board
desires them to see that their buildings are kept open and in
charge of a proper person during Commencement Week of
each year.
On motion the Board took a recess until 8 o'clock p. M.
EVENING SESSION.
[TUESDAY.]
The Board assembled at 8 o'clock P. M. and spent an
hour in conference without transacting any business and then
adjourned to 9 o'clock to-morrow morning.
MORNING SESSION.
[WEDNESDAY.]
The Board reassembled at 9 o'clock.
Regent Cocker moved that the sum of $300 be appropriated for the purpose of paying the freight on the Arch of
Trajan.




90


JUNE MEETING, 1897.


A call vote resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, and Farr.
Nays-None.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following communication from    the Librarian, relating    to establishing a
Circulating Library:
Ann Arbor, June 28, I897.
TO THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
GENTLEMEN:-The subject of this communication can best be stated
by quoting a paragraph from President Angell's last report.
"As the number of volumes in our General Library is now about
85,000, I desire to urge the Regents to consider earnestly the feasibility of
setting apart a certain number of books, which students may be allowed to
draw from the Library and take to their rooms for a limited period. Believing that such use of certain books will be much more advantageous to the
readers, I have long looked forward to the time when it would be practicable for us to permit it. I have always thought that when the number of
volumes approached roo,ooo we might safely give this larger liberty to
students under certain restrictions. * * * * The expense of service
at the desk may be a little increased. The risk of loss is perhaps somewhat
enhanced. But after all proper weight is given to these facts, we have to
remember that the library is the great central power in the instruction given
in the University, and that the books are here not to be locked up and kept
away from readers, but to be placed at their disposal with the utmost freedom compatible with safety and with the general and equal convenience of
all students. The Library Committee have given some consideration to the
subject, and can doubtless soon furnish you with the essential facts, which
you may require in order to determine when, if at all, the change suggested
should be made in the administration of the Library."
The recent acquisition of a large number of duplicates-particularly
from the Felch bequest-has made it possible, with a moderate outlay, to
put this circulating department into operation before the end of the next
college year.  The removal of the statuary from the east wing affords
space. Shelving for 5,000 volumes can be supplied for about $soo. The
cataloguing and other preparation of the books would cost about $300.
Some appliances, not necessary for our reference work, would be required
for registering loans, but the cost of these would not exceed $25. This
would make the cost of putting the department into operation and completing the year, $425. We should then be in a condition to state with




JUNE MEETING, 1897.


91


some exactness the cost of operating it in the future. At present I estimate
that cost at $200 a year.
The subject has been presented to the Library Committee of, the
Faculty and that Committee recommends to the Board to authorize the
experiment, if it can be done without encroaching upon funds already
appropriated to other uses. They do not recommend it if it shall seem
necessary to draw the money to carry it out from the fund for the purchase
of books.             Respectfully submitted,
RAYMOND C. DAVIS, Librarian.
Regent Barbour moved that the matter lie on the table
for the present, and it was so ordered.
Regent Fletcher, chairman of the Committee on Buildings
and Grounds, presented a schedule of repairs and alterations
which should be made during the summer.
On motion, the Board approved the schedule and authorized the committee to proceed with the work.
Regent Dean moved that a sun-room be constructed on
the south end of the University Hospital according to plans submitted by the Committee on Buildings and Grounds at a cost
of $1500.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, and Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, an appropriation of $ioo
was made for the purpose of constructing a pavilion at the Hospital for the use of patients, by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Fletcher moved that the Committee on Buildings
and Grounds be authorized to procure plans for enlarging the
steam heating plant at the Hospitals so as to provide a dining
room, laundry, and dormitories for the nurses in the Training
School, at a cost not exceeding $0o,ooo, and that the Committee be empowered to proceed with the work.
A call vote on this subject resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, and Farr.
Nays-None.




92


JUNE MEETING, 1897.


Regent Fletcher moved that the sum of $800 be appropriated for the purchase of material for enlarging and repairing the heating plant, in accordance with the estimate of the
engineer.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, and Farr.
Nays-None.
Regent Fletcher moved that the Committee on Buildings
and Grounds be authorized to contract for the metal work in
the Women's Building at a cost not exceeding $34I.
It was so ordered by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, and Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Dean, the Board took a recess
until 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
[WEDNESDAY.]
Regent Fletcher reported the bids received to furnish the
engines and dynamos for the electric lighting plant. The
Board directed that a contract be made with the Ridgway
Dynamo and Engine Company, of Ridgway, Pennsylvania, for
two engines and two dynamos according to specifications, for
the sum of $5,00o, and that the remaining $I5,000 of the
legislative appropriation, be placed at the disposal of the
Committee on Buildings and Grounds to complete the plant.
The vote was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, and Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher Miss Alice G. Snyder was
appointed Instructor in the Women's Gymnasium for one
year at a salary of $900, by the following vote:




JUNiE MVEETING, 1897.


93


Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, and Farr.
Nays-None.
Regent Fletcher moved that A. Hild & Co., of Detroit,
be paid the sum of $i20, in full settlement of their bill for a
quantity of lumber left on the Campus after completing their
contract on the Women's Building.        It was so ordered    as
follows:
Ayes —Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, and Farr.
Nays-None.
The Executive Committee made a report, recommending
that Frank Warner M. Cutcheon be admitted to the degree of
Bachelor of Philosophy, as of the class of I885.
Also that the following honorary degrees be conferred:
MASTER OF PHARMACY.
Maurice Ashbel Miner, Ph.C., class of I87I, Assistant Professor of
Pharmacy, Northwestern University School of Pharmacy, Chicago.
MASTER OF SCIENCE.
Eben S. Wheeler, C.E., class of I867, U. S. Assistant Engineer, Sault
Ste. Marie.
MASTER OF ARTS.
Lawrence Cameron Hull, A.B., class of I877, Lawrenceville, N. J. A
Head-Master in Lawrenceville Academy.
DOCTOR OF SCIENCE.
Charles Leander Doolittle, C.E., class of 1874.  Professor of Astronomy in the University of Pennsylvania.
DOCTOR OF LAWS.
David Putnam, State Normal School, Ypsilanti.
Henry F. Severens, United States District Judge, Western District of
Michigan.
Eduard Ritter v. Wolfflin, Professor of Classical Philology, University
of Munich.
The Very Reverend Robert Herbert Story, D.D., Professor of Ecclesiastical and Civil History, University of Glasgow.
On motion the report of the Executive Committee was
adopted.




94


JUNE BMEETING, 1897.


On motion the Board took a recess until tomorrow afternoon at 4 o'clock.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
[THURSDAY.]
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Superintendent of
Buildings was directed to construct an animal room in the
basement of the Homceopathic Medical College at a cost of
$300. The vote was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, and Farr.
Nays —None.
On motion of Regent Cocker it was ordered that the
usual number of copies of the Commencement Address be
printed for distribution.
On motion the Board adjourned to Wednesday, September i5, at 10 o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




SEPTEMBER MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, )
ANN ARBOR, September I5, 1897.
The Board assembled in the room of the President at io
o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer,
Fletcher, and Farr.
Absent, Regent Butterfield.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Cook, approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry communications which had reached the President
were referred to appropriate committees of the Board for consi deration.
The President presented and read the following communication:
UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,
I7 July, I897. )
DEAR SIR:-I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of your letter
of the 2d inst, conveying the very gratifying intelligence that the University
of Michigan had conferred on me the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws.
I need not say that I value highly the distinction which your University has
thus bestowed on me, not only as a mark-wholly unexpected-of appreciation of my humble services to historical literature, but as constituting a link
in the lengthening chain of interest and mutual regard which connects the
vigorous young institutions of your great Republic with those that are still
full of energy under our ancient monarchy. May I ask you to communicate
to the Regents of your University the assurance of my warm gratitude for
the honor they have done me, and my respect for the learned corporation
over which they preside.
I am, Dear Sir, very faithfully yours,
R. HERBERT STORY.
The President of the University of 1M ichigan.




96


SEPIE7'MZ::BERt' MXEETIN 7VG, 1897.


On motion of Regent Farr the Building Committee were
authorized to fit up room i8A in the north wing to be used for
a Laboratory of Psychology, at a cost not exceeding $130, by
the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour," Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Cocker the President and Secretary
were authorized to execute a discharge of the mortgage on the
west half of lot i6, Military Reserve, in the city of Detroit.
Regent Barbour submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the Finance Committee be authorized to make an
agreement with Mr. Carl Everding for the extension of his two mortgages
for five years, with a reduction of interest to six per cent.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the President and Secretary were authorized to sign (in the name of the Board) the
contract with Beswick and Doolittle for the erection of a
Dormitory Building at the Hospital.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Wilbur C. Abbott, B. Litt.,
was appointed Instructor in History for one year, at a salary
of $900, by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Kiefer moved that G. Carl Huber, M. D., be
appointed Secretary of the Medical Faculty for one year, at a
salary of $200.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer moved that one Assistant Demonstrator of
Anatomy (to be named hereafter) be appointed for one year
at a salary of $200.
A call vote resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1897.


97


Regent Kiefer submitted the following resolutions, which
were adopted:
Resolved, That Dr. W. A. Campbell is hereby requested to hand over,
after receiving this notice, all books, records and documents in his possession belonging t, the Department of Medicine and Surgery of the University
of Michigan to Dr. G. C. Huber, who has been this day appointed Secretary of the Faculty of the Department.
Resolved, That the Examining Committee of the Medical Faculty are
herewith requested to send their report of examinations and the credentials
for admission, which have been passed upon by the Committee, to Dr. G. C.
Huber, the newly appointed Secretary.
Resolved, That the Secretary of the University is herewith requested
to notify within twenty-fours Dr. WV. A. Canmpbell, the present Secretary,
and Dr. C. B. Nancrede, Chairman of the Examining Committee, of the
action of this Board.
Resolved, That the Secretary of the University shall notify Dr.
G. C. Huber of his appointment by the Board as Secretary of the Medical
Faculty for one year from October Ist, 1897, and request him to call upon
Dr. Campbell and receive the books, records and documents of the Department, and to assume the duties of the office at once.
On motion of Regent Barbour the Building Committee
were authorized to fit up office rooms in the Law Building for
the use of the new Professors at a cost not exceeding $50, by
the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays —None.
Regent Dean submitted       the following memoraf-dum       of
an agreement between       the Regents of the University and
Henry Ives Cobb, architect of Chicago, which was approved,
and the President and Secretary were authorized to sign the
same in the name of the Board:
This memorandum    of an agreement made               —, I897,
between Mr. Henry Ives Cobb, architect, a resident of the city of Chicago,
party of the first part, and the Regents of the University of Michigan, party
of the second part, witnesseth:
The said Henry Ives Cobb, party of the first part, agrees to prepare
and furnish to the party of the second part a preliminary sketch and plan
of an enlargement of the Chemical Laboratory, said plan and sketch to be




98


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1897.


used in securing funds with which the aforesaid enlargement may be
erected.
The party of the second part agrees, in case funds may be secured for
the aforesaid enlargement, with the help of the preliminary plan and sketch
furnished by the party of the first part, and said plan is accepted by the
Board and by the person or persons furnishing the funds or making the
arrangement necessary for the erection of said enlargement, that the said
party of the first part, and he alone, shall be engaged as architect of the
aforesaid enlargement, to prepare and furnish detail drawings and specifications as above indicated, and to perform the duties ordinarily performed
by architects in the erection of monumental buildings; furthermore, that the
said party of the first part, on furnishing the detail drawings and specifications as above indicated, or at such other time as may be mutually agreed
upon, shall receive compensation for his services in accordance with the
schedule of the "American Institute of Architects" hereto attached.
Signed:
Party of the first part.. Witnesses
J                    For the party of the second part.
On motion of Regent Dean arn appropriation of $I3.50
was made for the purchase of three skins of the Alaskan fur
seal by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds was directed to run a partition through
room C, making an independent passageway to the stairs leading to University Hall, and the room so cut off be used as an
an office for the Secretary of the Alumni Association.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the treasurer of the University be authorized to receive
the Williams Fund and all other funds that the Alumni Association of the
University of Michigan may desire from time to time to place in the custody of the Board, and that the treasurer of the University be required to
exercise the same supervision over all such funds that he does over other
University funds, and the bond of the treasurer be required to cover all
funds committed to his care.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, I895.


99


On motion of Regent Kiefer the Board took a recess
until 2 o'clock, P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
Regent Fletcher moved that the Secretary be authorized
to pay the bill of H. George & Co. of $50 for three trips from
Detroit to examine the dome on University Hall. It was so
ordered by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds was instructed to paint the walls of
the central and south rooms on the second floor of the Chemical Laboratory.
Regent Fletcher moved that John Scott, architect, be
paid $200 on account for plans and specifications of the new
Dormitory Building. It was so ordered as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
Regent Dean presented the request of Professor Asaph
Hall that $400 be added to the budget for the Observatory for
the purchase of a surveyor's transit. The request was laid on
the table.
On motion of Regent Dean the title of Clarence G.
Taylor, Superintendent of Shops, was changed to Professor of
Mechanical Practice and Superintendent of Shops.
On motion of Regent Cook the Board went into executive session.
Regent Barbour submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted.
Resolved, That the Western Seminary room be set aside for a collection offered by Dr. Samuel A. Jones of manuscript letters written by and to
Thoreau and other Concord authors, and other material of interest to be
collected, and that such room shall be known as the Concord Room, and
that until a fire proof room be provided such material be stored in the
fire proof department of the Library.
The President reported the gift, to the library, of a col



100


SEPTEMBER AMEETING, z897.


lection of "Early Christian Literature," by Mr. D. M. Ferry,
of Detroit. On motion of Regent Cocker the Board passed a
vote of thanks to Mr. Ferry for his generous gift.      The collection consists not only of valuable editions of the early
Christian writers but also "Studies" and other publications
and books bearing upon the condition of the Roman empire
in the first centuries of the Christian era and the relations
between   Chraistianity  and   paganism.     The following    are
among the more important titles:
Volumes.
Corpus scriptorum ecclesiasticoruon latinorum. Vienna.............. 36
W iener  Studien.  Vienna.......................................  IS
Eusebius, Chronicorum  libri II., edited  by Schcene...................  2
Migne, Patrologia Grxeca, vols. 65, 67; Patrologia Latina, vol. 58..... 3
Theodoretus, Historia Ecclesiastica, edited by Schultze.............. Io
M one, Lateinische  H ymnen......................................  3
D io  Cassius, edited  by  Sturz......................................  9
H erodianus, edited  by  Irmisch...................................  5
Fleury, St. Paul  et  Seneque......................................  I
Schiller, Geschichte des romischen Kaiserreichs unter der Regierung
des   N ero................................................  I
Boissier, La  fin  du  paganisme...................................  I
The entire collection comprises 105 books and 25 pamphlets, to which
the remaining volumes of the Corpus scriptorum ecclesiasticorumn will be
added as they appear.
Regent Cook moved that the following appointments be
made in the Homoeopathic Medical College:
Claudius B. Kinyon, of Rock Island, Ill., to be Professor
of Obstetrics and Gynecology at a salary of $2,000.
Albert J. Elliott, A. B., M. D., as House Physician for
one year at a salary of $400.
E. Gertrude Fornier to be Principal of the Nurses' Training School and Matron at a salary of $45 per month.
Also that W. A. Fowler, M. D., be paid $95 for services
as House Physician during the months of July, August, and
September.
Also that Lillian   Fowler be paid $105 for services as
Matron during the months of July, August and September.




SEPTEBA1ZER MAEEY'ING, 1897.


101


Also that the Dean be instructed to post the following
notice in the Hospital:
The use of tobacco in all its forms is strictly prohibitted in and about
this building, except in rooms especially provided for smoking. By order
of the Board of Regents.             W. E. HINsI):AIE, Dean.
A call vote being taken on Regent Cook's motion resulted
as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None. Regent Kiefer not voting.
Regent Barbour moved that Dr. W. B. Hinsdale, Dean of
the Homoeopathic Medical College, be paid the sum of $75
for expenses incurred in looking up a Professor of Obstetrics
and Gynxecology to fill the chair formerly occupied by Profesfessor M. H. Parmelee.     It was so ordered by the following
vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Fletcher. and Farr.
Nays-None. Regent Kiefer not voting.
Regent Fletcher, chairman of the Committee on Buildings and Grounds, made a report on putting in elevators in
both the Hospitals, which was referred to the Committee on
Finance for consideration.
Regent Barbour submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the head of each department be requested in writing
by the Secretary of the Board to prepare a complete inventory of all material and instruments in the possession of his department, and furnish a copy
thereof to the Board at its next meeting.
Regent Fletcher moved that a purchasing agent be
appointed at a salary not exceeding $1,200. 'The matter was
referred to the Finance Committee.
On motion of Regent Barbour the appointment of Dr.
Jeanne C. Solis as demonstrator of nervous diseases was
referred to the Medical Committee to report at the next meeting.
On motion of Regent Barbour the request of the Director
of the Chemical Laboratory to be allowed to purchase one




102


SEPTEMIBER AIEETING, 1897.


stereopticon and three sets of balances for use in that department was referred to the Committee on Pharmaceutical
Department for consideration.
The request of the Director of the Chemical Laboratory
that the Board employ an additional helper in the dispensing
room was referred to the Pharmaceutical Committee.
On motion of Regent Cocker the request that the religious statistics of this and other universities of the country,
collected by President Angell, be printed by the University
was denied.
Regent Cocker moved that the salaries of teachers be paid
in nine monthly payments, and all other employes in twelve
monthly installments. The matter was referred to Regents
Farr and Butterfield for consideration.
On motion of Regent Barbour the Board adjourned to
Wednesday, October 20, at o10 o'clock, A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




OCTOBER MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MIICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, October 20, 1897. 5
The Board assembled in the room of the President at 10
o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Barbour, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield,
Fletcher, and Farr.
Absent, Regents Cocker and Cook.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Kiefer, approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry communications which had reached the President
were placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the
Board for consideration.
Regent Barbour moved that Henry 0. Severance, A.B., be
appointed assistant in the General Library for one year in
place of Mary L. W. Loomis, salary $700, and Miss Annie
Louise Bacorn to be Assistant in English for one year at a
salary of $300. The motion was carried by the following
vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays —None.
Regent Barbour moved that the bill of $44 for repairs on
the typewriter be paid from the budget fund of the Library
for current expenses, and that $5o be taken from the same
fund for cataloguing the McMillan Shakespeare Library. It
was so ordered by a full vote.
On motion of Regent Barbour the request of the French




104


OCTOBER MEETING, i897.


department for additional teaching force was referred to the
Literary Committee for consideration.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following communication:
To the Honorable Board of Regents.Through the generosity of the Hon. James McMillan, the General
Library has recently received an addition to the Shakespeare collection,
bearing his name, of a considerable number of volumes and pamphlets in
foreign languages, costing in all one hundred dollars.
ISAAC N. DEMMON.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the President was
requested to transmit the thanks of the Board to the Hon.
James McMillan for his generous gift to the Library.
Regent Butterfield moved that additional cases be placed
in the General Library at a cost not exceeding $125, the
expense to be borne by the general fund.
It was so ordered as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Barbour it was voted that Dr. J. P.
McMurrich be regarded as a member of the Literary Faculty.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the Board took a recess
until 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock P. M.
Regent Barbour stated that the Alumni Association had
decided to publish a weekly paper for the purpose of bringing
proper University news to the attention of the Alumni of the
University, and if possible to stimulate them to greater activity
in the interest of their Alma Mater. He asked the Board to
create a guarantee fund for the purpose of aiding the Association, if necessary, in getting out the first fifteen issues.
Regent Farr moved that the sum of $600 be named for that
purpose, and it was so ordered as follows:




OCTOBER MiEETING, I897.


105


Ayes-Regents Barbour, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays —None.
On motion of Regent Butterfietd the Literary Faculty
were requested to report to the Board some general plan for
getting University news before the people of the State.
On motion of Regent Kiefer the sum of $40 was appropriated for the purchase of four galvanized boxes in which to
keep subjects coming to the Anatomical Laboratory, separate
during the ten days in which the law allows claims to be made
for the return of bodies to relatives.  The vote was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
The Hospital Committee of the Department of Medicine
and Surgery reported that Mrs. Rosa Flynn and Miss Jennie
Drummond had completed the course in the Training School
for Nurses, and were entitled to certificates of graduation.
On motion of Regent Kiefer it was ordered that the
proper certificates be issued, signed by the President and
Secretary, and the seal of the University attached.
Regent Kiefer moved that the following appointments
and changes in the Department of Medicine and Surgery be
made:
ist. That Dr. McMurrich be allowed to give a course on
the anatomy of the special senses.
2d. That Robert C. Bourland be appointed Assistant
Demonstrator of Anatomy for one year, with a salary of $200.
3d. That Albert Marsh, now Janitor of the Medical Building, be appointed Laboratory Attendant to the Departments
of Pharmacology, Physiology, Histology, and Anatomy, and to
have charge of the dead room and the injection of anatomical
material, with a salary of $500.
4th. That Fred East be appointed Janitor of the Medical
and Anatomical Buildings (except the basement of the Ana



106


OCTOBER MEETING, i897.


tomical Building which the Laboratory attendant will care for),
with a salary of $450.
5th. That Gregor Nagele, now janitor of the Anatomical
Building, be entrusted only with the ringing of the bell
announcing the opening and closing of classes, at a salary of
$ Io per month.
6th. That James P. Briggs, Ph.C., Pharmacist at the University Hospital, be reappointed for one year, at a salary of
$600.
7th. That Benjamin F. Bailey be appointed dispensing
clerk in the Electrotherapeutical Laboratory for one year, at a
salary of $100,
8th. That Charles A. Cattermole be appointed Assistant
in Dermatology, without salary.
9th. That the degree of Doctor of Medicine be conferred
upon John Fletcher Byington and Lewis Frank Ladd as of
the class of I897.
A call vote being taken on Regent Kiefer's motion resulted
as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the resignation of
Dr. A. W. Haidle, Demonstrator of Dental Mechanism in the
Dental Department, which was accepted.
Regent Kiefer moved that Edward J. Anderson be
appointed Assistant to Doctors Dorrance and Hoff in the
Dental Department for one year, at a salary of $325. The
appointment was made by the following vote:
Ayes —Regents Barbour, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the degree of Doctor of
Dental Surgery was conferred upon Henry William Charles
Bodecker, B.S., in accordance with the recommendation of the
Faculty.
On motion of Regent Farr, the proposition of Professor




OCTOBER MEETING, 1897.


107


C. G. Taylor to put in an elevator in each of the Hospitals, to
run -from the basement to the second floors, at a cost of $41 5
each, was accepted by the following vote:
Ayes —Regents Barbour, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Dr. Jeanne C. Solis was
appointed Demonstrator of Nervous Diseases for one year, at
a salary of $500, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Theophil Klingman, Ph.C.,
M. D., was appointed Assistant to the Chair of Nervous
Diseases for one year, without salary.
On motion of Regent Barbour, George D. Willcox was
appointed Assistant to the Secretary and Steward, at a salary
of $750, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Dean, the degree of Pharmaceutical
Chemist was conferred upon John Henry Brown and Alice M.
Stevens, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty
of the School of Pharmacy.
Regent Dean read the following communication from the
Director of the School of Pharmacy.
ANN ARBOR, Oct. 20, I897.
SCHOOL OF PHARMACY,
TO THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
DEAR SIRS —I beg leave to ask your Honorable Body to extend the
thanks of the University to Messrs. F. Stearns & Co., of Detroit, for their
liberality in continuing their support of a Fellowship for Research in the
School of Pharmacy, with increase of their previous grant, for the year
I897-98.
The grant is three hundred and fifty dollars for the year. In 1895 it
was given for two years at three hundred dollars a year.
Respectfully,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT.
On motion of Regent Dean, the President was requested




108


OCTOBER MEETING, 1897.


to transmit the grateful acknowledgments of the Board to
Frederick Stearns & Co., of Detroit, for their great generosity
in continuing this Fellowship.
On motion of Regent Dean, Evi D. Benjamin, Ph.C.,
was appointed Assistant in Pharmacy for one year in place of
Mr. James Seymour, and at the same salary, $I50, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Dean, Ernest E. Race, A.M., was
appointed Assistant in the Botanical Laboratory for one year
to take the place of Miss Bertha Fish, at a salary of $50, by
the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Board decided to
reseat the main floor of University Hall with veneered opera
chairs; there being four different firms present with sample
chairs, the Board selected chair 501 B, made by the Grand
Rapids School Furniture Company, costing $1.75 each, including metal numbers, all to be put in place within sixty days
and guaranteed for twenty years, the work to be done under
the direction of the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds,
the University to remove the old seats, and extend the risers
to receive the new chairs. The Secretary was authorized to
make contract in accordance with the action of the Board.
A call vote was taken on Regent Fletcher's motion resulting as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Dean, the Chemical Laboratory
was allowed to purchase three sets of balances, costing $30
each, for use by the class in Physiological Chemistry, payment
to be made from the budget fund of that department.
Regent Dean presented and read the following communi



OCTOBER MEETING, 1897.


109


cation from Professor M. E. Cooley, and the leave of absence
asked for was granted.
October I8, 1897.
TO THE HONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS, UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN:
GENTLEMEN:-I am in receipt of a communication from Lieutenant
Commander Gilbert Wilkes, M.S.N.B., commanding the First Battalion of
the Michigan State Naval Brigade, headquarters at Detroit, asking me to
go to Montreal to meet the U. S. S. "Yantic" and help bring her to Detroit.
This is a duty which, as chief engineer, I should like to perform, if it is consistent with my duties to the University. The "Yantic" is expected to be
in Montreal about the 25th of October. If it be your pleasure, therefore, I
should like to request a leave of absence of about five or six days for this
service.
I have the honor to remain,
Yours very truly,
M. E. COOLEY.
Regent Dean moved that the following appointments be
made in the Museum:
Norman A. Wood to be Janitor of the Museum Building
and Taxidermist for one year, salary $6oo.
Herbert E. Sargent, B.S., to be assistant in the Museum
for one year in place of Mr. A. J. Foster, resigned, salary $ 50.
W. E. Praeger to be assistant in the Museum for one
year without salary.
Also Grant H. Dunning, B.S., to be assistant to the Dean
of the Engineering Department for one year at a salary of
$300.
The vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Dean, Emmons Collins received
the degree of B. S. (M. E.), and Weston Small the degree
of B. S. (C. E.), in accordance with the recommendation of
the Faculty of the Department of Engineering.
A communication was received from Dr. P. C. Freer
which was, on motion, laid on the table.




110


OCTOBER MEETIVG, 1897.


Regent Fletcher read a communication from the Homoeopathic Faculty, asking for a liberal appropriation for the maintenance of obstetrical cases in the Hospital, which was, on
motion, laid on the table.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following communication from the Faculty of the Department of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.
ANN ARBOR, Oct. I2th, I897.
To the Honorable, tihe Board of Regents.
GENTLEMEN:-I have the honor to report to you that the Faculty of
the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, at their last meeting,
recommended to you the following named persons for the degrees indicated:
FOR BACHELOR OF LETTERS.
Horace Warren Danforth.
FOR BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
Mae Woldt.
FOR BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY.
Colman Dudley Frank.
FOR BACHELOR OF ARTS.
Martha White Bancker, Frank Hamsher, Herbert Rogers Marlatt,
Clinton George Stewart.
Also Frank Pattengill Knowlton, A.B., for Master of Arts, recommended
by the Faculty last June but absent from Commencement.
The above named persons had finished their work, but were absent
at the last Commencement.
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DE PONT, Registrar.
On motion of Regent Barbour the degrees indicated in
the foregoing communication were conferred upon the persons named therein, in accordance with the recommendation
of the Faculty.
A  communication was received from       Professors V. M.
Spalding and J. E. Reighard, asking for an appropriation of
$65.25 for the purchase of reflectors for electric lamps in their
respective laboratories, and was referred to the Finance Committee.
A committee of the teachers in the Summer School of
Law appeared before the Board and stated that there was $30




OC7'OBERl' M7EETING, 1897.


1ll


in the hands of the Secretary of the school, which had been
collected of students in the Summer School after settlement
had been made with the treasurer.     They asked that the
amount be turned over to Professor E. F. Johnson, as compensation for services as Secretary of the Summer School. It
was so ordered by a full vote of the Board.
Regent Fletcher moved that $300 be appropriated for the
purchase of pipe covering in the Boiler House, Anatomical
Building, and the Engineering Laboratory, and $200 for the
purchase of apparatus for use in the Women's Gymuasium.
The motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes —Regents Barbour, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
Regent Butterfield submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted:
Resolved, That all fees received for the Summer School be paid to the
Treasurer of the University, and that no settlements be made until the bills
are all in and the school closed.
On motion of Regent Barbour a sum not exceeding $50
was appropriated for cataloguing accessions to the McMillan
Shakespeare Library, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
The Homceopathic Faculty certified that Miss Lottie
Padfield and Miss Mattie Wilson had completed the requirements for graduation in the Training School for Nurses, and
asked that the proper certificates of graduation be issued. It
was so ordered, and the President and Secretary were directed
to sign the same and attach the seal of the University.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the Board adjourned to
Wednesday, November 7th, at 10 o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




ADJOURNED MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, October 30, I897.
By common consent the date of the adjourned meeting
was changed to Saturday, October 3oth, and the Board assembled in the Faculty room at 9 o'clock, A. M., on that day.
Present, Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer,
Fletcher, and Farr.
Absent, Regent Butterfield.
The reading of the minutes was dispensed with until the
next meeting of the Board.
Sundry communications which had reached the President
were placed in the hands of the appropriate committees of the
Board for consideration.
Regent Barbour called up the matter of the appointment
of Dr. J. B. Steere to some active work in the University, in
accordance with the action of the Alumni Association, the
salary to be paid from the income of the Williams fund. On
Regent Barbour's motion the matter was referred to the Literary Committee for consideration.
The President being called away for a brief time, Regent
Barbour was called to the chair.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, D. Murray Cowie, M.D.,
was appointed Assistant to the chair of Theory and Practice
in the Department of Medicine and Surgery for one year,
without salary.
Regent Kiefer stated that the Grand Rapids Medical
College had asked the University to sell them six subjects for
dissection. He also said that it would not be possible to com



114


OCTOBER MEETING, 1897.


ply with the request, as the Medical Department did not have
sufficient material for its own use.
On motion Regent Kiefer was asked to make answer to
the request.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the President and Secretary be authorized to assign
the mortgage given by the Rector, Wardens, and Vestrymen of St. Paul's
Church in the City of Detroit, on the west half of Lot I6, Military Reserve,
lying on the north side of Congress Street west, to Theodore H. Eaton on
payment of principal and interest.
Also, that a loan of $5o for three years from the I897 Scholarship
fund be made to John Henry Ehlers, a student in the Literary Department.
A communication was received from a number of Professors asking that the former schedule of salaries in the Literary
Department be reestablished.  The matter was referred to the
Finance Committee.
Regent Cocker read a communication from Mr. Frank G.
Allen, of Moline, Illinois, asking for information in regard to
the amount of money required to maintain a student in the
University per year, as he desired to establish a scholarship in
the University of Michigan.
On motion the President was requested to furnish the
information.
Regent Dean moved that the Board appoint an additional janitor in the Chemical Laboratory whose duty shall be
to assist in the dispensing room, and to perform such other
duties as the Director shall require of him, and that hereafter
assistants in the laboratory shall not be allowed to have keys
to the dispensing room.
On a call vote the motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
At this point the President returned and took the chair.
On motion of Regent Cook, Dr. O. R. Long, of Ionia,
was appointed Lecturer on Mental Diseases in the Honile



OCTOBER MEETING, 1897.


115


opathic Medical College for one year without compensation,
except traveling expenses.
The motion was carried.
Regent Cook moved that each of the hospitals be allowed
to use $ioo from their respective budget funds for the purpose of maintaining obstetrical cases in the hospital.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Dean the consent of the Board was
obtained to a semi-weekly, instead of a weekly issue of the
paper to be published by the Alumni Association for which
the Board has provided a guarantee fund.
On motion of Regent Dean, Bert W. Peet, B.S., was
appointed Assistant in General Chemistry for one year at a
salary of $150, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the use of both gymnasiums was confined to matriculants, members of the Faculty,
employees of the University, their wives and their children
between the ages of seventeen and twenty-four.
Regent Fletcher moved that four laboratory tables be
made for the Zoological Laboratory at a cost of $i6.oo each,
and that the bill be paid from the general fund.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
Regent Fletcher moved that the sum of $42.00 be taken
from the general fund for the construction of three tables and
a case of drawers for use in the Botanical Laboratory.
It was so ordered as follows:




116


OCTOBER MEETING, 1897.


Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
A communication was received from Professor D'Ooge
and others asking for an appropriation of $75 for connecting
their stereopticon with the new electric lighting system. The
matter was referred to the Committee on Buildings and
Grounds.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the question of making a
contract with the New State Telephone Co. was referred to
the Committee on Buildings and Grounds.
The   Homceopathic   Faculty asked  for permission to
expend from   their budget fund $II5 for the purchase of
instruments for the use of the Professor of Gynecology.  The
expenditure was allowed by the following vote:
Ayes —Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None. Regent Kiefer not voting.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the President was requested
to convey the thanks of the Board to Mr. Marshall Thomas
for a model of a bridge presented to the Engineering Department.
On motion of Regent Barbour, Professor Pettee was
requested to suggest some proper arrangements for the recognition of the Training School for Nurses in the Catalogue.
Regent Barbour presented and read the following communication from the University Senate, and the recommendations therein contained were adopted by a full vote of the
Board.
October 19, 1897.
To THE HONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN:
GENTLEMEN:-At a meeting of the University Senate, held last evening, it was voted'to be the sense of the Senate that the date of the Annual
Commencement should be changed from the Thursday following the last
Wednesday in June to the Thursday preceding the last Wednesday in June,
and that the date of the beginning of the academic year should be changed




OCTOBER MEETING, 1897.


117


from the first of October to the Tuesday preceding the last Wednesday in
September.
It was also voted that the proposed change be recommended to your
Honorable Board for consideration and adoption.
Very respectfully submitted,
WM. H. PETTEE,
Secretary of the University Senate.
Regent Barbour read the following communication from
the University Senate, and the matter was referred to the
President and Secretary for consideration.
October 19, I897.
To THE HONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHI,
GAN:
GENTLEMEN:-By direction of the University Senate I send for your
consideration a copy of resolutions adopted by the Senate at its meeting of
June 14, 1897, as follows:
Resolved, That the Senate respectfully recommend to the Board of
Regents the adoption of suitable rules for the regulation of bicycle riding
on the Campus; and
Resolved, That in the opinion of the Senate, such rules should limit
the speed of riding to seven miles an hour, and should require the carrying
of bells and lanterns.
Very respectfully,
WM. H. PETTEE,
Secretary of the University Senate.
On motion of Regent Barbour the salary of Professor
George Hench was made $2,500, and the salary of Doctor W.
F. Breakey was fixed at $900, and the title of Professor F. C.
Newcombe was made Junior Professor with a salary of $2,000.
The vote on Regent Barbour's motion was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the President was requested
to convey the thanks of the Board to the American Steam
Guage Company for two steam guages presented to the Electric
Plant.
Regent Fletcher moved       that Mr. W. L. Miggett be




118


OCTOBER MEETING, 1897.


appointed Assistant Engineer, with a salary at the rate of $750
a year, services to begin November Ist. The motion was
carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Farr.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Barbour the Chairman of the
Finance Committee, the Secretary, and the Treasurer were
requested to arrange a plan for the payment of salaries monthly.
On motion of Regent Barbour, it was voted to offer
Arthur Brown $250 for his vacant lot adjoining the Hospital
Grounds.
On motion, the Building Committee were authorized to
procure plans for an addition to the Law Building, costing
$5o,oo0, and a Biological Building, costing $50,000.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the following bills were
ordered paid from the General Fund:
Dr. W. H. Dewey,...   $ 62 25
Dr. W. B. Hinsdale,...     IOI 26
Dr. R. S. Copeland,...     98 08
Dr. Oscar Le Seure,..     64 70
$326 29
A call vote resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None. Regent Kiefer not voting.
On motion of Regent Barbour, the Board adjourned to
Wednesday, November i7th, at io o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




NOVEMBER MEETING.
UNIVERSIT\ OF ' MlICII(;AN, 
ANNx A'Rt:t<, November 17, 1897. 
The Board assembled in the room1 of tle Pr'esident at o1
o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer,
Fletcher, and Butterfield.
Absent, Regent Farr.
The Secretary read the minutes of the two previous meetings, which were on motion of Regent Barbour approved and
ordered printed.
Sundry papers which      had   reached the   President were
placed in the hands of appropriate comnmittees of the Board
for consideration.
Librarian Davis presented and read his annual report
which was as follows:
To THE HONORABLE, TllHE BOARD OF Ri(;.N'S O(F THEi UNVIVE1SITVY O
MICHIGAN:
GEN'rLEMEN. —The date for closing the year in the libraries of the
state is June 30th, apnd the library statistics compiled by the state librarian
are for a year ending at that time. It has seemed best to me, on this
account, to close our library year at that time rather than on September
30th, which heretofore has been the time for clo)sing it.
This report, therefore, covers only the nine months from October Ist,
I896, to June 30th, I897.
There were in all of the libraries of the University, June 30th, 1897,
113,990 volumes, 17,555 unbound pamphlets, and 1,275 maps. Of these
there were in the General Library 91,12 volumes, I6,o65 unbound pamphlets, and 1,275 maps; in the Iaw Library, I3,849 volumes; in the Medical
Library, 7,762 volumes and 1,490 unbound pamphlets; in the Library of the
Dental College, 817 volumes; and in the Library of the Hlom(epathic
Medical College, 450 volumes.
As stated in my last report, the books of the Hlomceopathic collection




/26


NlO VEBE'IIi''R AIEETINVG, 1897.


have hitherto been counted as a part of the M\edical Library. Their erection into a separate library makes a reduction of 325 volumes in the count
of the Medical Library.
During the year 625 periodicals were regularly received, as follows:
In the General Library, 450; in the Medical Library, 131; in the Iaw
Library, 12; in the Iibrary of the Dental College, 13; and in the,ilbrary
of the Homceopathic Medical College, I9. 'Fen daily and I5 weekly newspapers were also regularly received.
TIIE GENERAL LIBRARY.
ADDITIONs.-The additions to the General Library during the nine
months were 6,414 volumes, 45 unbound pamphlets, and 78 maps.
DISBURSE:MENTS. —Tlhe total amount of bills certified to by me for
this library was $7,849.52. Of this sum, $6,644.95 were paid for books,
pamphlets, and maps, and periodicals received irregularly, and $I,249.57
were for annual subscriptions to periodicals.  Certain miscellaneous
expenses, incurred for catalogue cards, readers' slips, etc., and paid from
the current expense fund, amounted to $49.35.
IMPORTANT Pl'RCHIASES. —Orders were given for a number of important sets of books, but comparatively few of them had been received before
the time at which this report closes. The following were received:
Bulletin de la Societe botanique de France. 40 vols............ $125.36
Bulletino di bibliografia e di storia delle scienze matematiche e
fisiche.  20  vols. and  Index.......................  73.00
Chetham Society Publications. 147 vols.......................  I25.00
Corpus scriptorum historiae Byzantinae. Ed. Niebuhr...........  75.62
Oncken's Allgemeine Geschichte.  46  vols.....................  50.00
Annales de l'Observatoire de Paris. Observations. 40 vols......  304.00
Berichte der deutschen Chemischen Gesellschaft.  Second copy
for  laboratory  use.  --  vols.............................  244.75
Deutsche  Literaturzeitung.  I6  vols...........................  53.40
Baring-Gould's Lives of the Saints. 15 vols...................  I5.00
SPECIAL COL.ECTIONS.-Of the special collections that have been for
some time a part of the library the following have never received, or have
ceased to receive, additions:
The Parsons Library of 4,325 vols. and 5,00ooo pamphlets.
The Hagerman Collection of 2,260 vols.
The Dorsch Library of 1.676 vols. and I48 pamphlets.
The additions to the McMillan Shakespeare Library since the last
report have been 353 vols. It now numbers 4,354 volumes. The additions
to the Goethe Library were 35 vols. This collection now numbers 940
volumes.
Under this head of special collections I will place also the gift of Mrs.
Morris and the bequest of Hon. Alpheus Felch, received last year. A brief
reference was made to them in my last report. The former, which is to be




/2l
NOVElMBER MEE 7TING, 1897. 
known as the Morris Philosophical Library, has now been put in order for
use. When this collection was received it was estimated to contain I,I00
volumes. Inasmuch as a great deal of it was unbound it was difficult to tell
just how many there would be when they had undergone the operation of
binding. The unbound volumes are now bound and it is possible to
state just how many there are. The collection actually contained I240 volumes and I55 pamphlets.
Not long before his death Professor Morris made an effort to secure
for the University, through the aid of the older alumni, a memorial of President Tappan which should take the form of a collection of philosophical
books. The effort resulted in failure. The money received was only sufficient to buy oo00 volumes. It has seemed best to me to add these volumes
to the Morris Collection, which, thus reinforced, numbers I340 volumes.
The University has great reason to be grateful to IMrs. Morris for this
gift. It is both a valuable addition to the resources of the University
Library and a memorial of one whose connection with the University has
added much to its fame.
Equal progress could not be made with the Felch collection. About
700 volumes have, however, been catalogued and placed in their appropriate
classes on the shelves. The terms of the bequest did not' require that these
books should form a separate collection. When all have been catalogued a
typewritten list of them will be made and bound. This will show the nature
and extent of the bequest. In this list will appear also all additions made
to the collection by the children of Gov. Felch.
Besides permission to place the books with others on the same subject
in the library, permission was also given to dispose of duplicates that it was
not desirable to keep. Many of the duplicates were such as we greatly
needed; others are not needed and these we are disposing of as opportunity
offers. If other books are received in exchange for them they are added to
the collection; if money is received it is devoted to the purchase of books
to be thus added. In making purchases preference is given to American
history.
It gives me pleasure to add that the opinion expressed by me last year
in regard to the value of this bequest has been confirmed by all of our subsequent handling of it.
GIFTs.-From  the Duke of Lonbat was received a copy of a PreColumbian Mexican Book, known as the Vatican MS., No. 3773. This copy
was made by the chromo photographic process. An explanatory treatise
accompanies it. It is most interesting as showing the form of book in use
on a part of this continent at the time of its discovery. W;e are under obligations to Mr. Harlan I. Smith, of Washington, for presenting the claims of
this University for a copy of the work to the Duke of Lonbat.
From His Highness, the Maharajah of Jeypore, through Col. S. S.
Jacob, Superintending Engineer, six portfolios of Architectural Drawings
were received. These drawings were chiefly from old buildings at or near
Delhi and Agra.   Students of architecture cannot fail to find these
inspiring.




/2t
>                  ATO  I~Lz',N' OVEMBER  E7AETING, ^'97.
The Government of Her Majesty the Queen of England presented a
set of the Report on the Scientific Results of the Challenger Expedition, 44
vols. These volumes are of first importance for the work in Zoology and
the.other natural sciences.
The purchase of a copy of the Third Folio of Shakespeare, 1664, was
authorized by the Hon. James McMillan at a cost of $381.75. Mr McMillan
at the same time authorized the expenditure of $Ioo.oo more to make addiditions to the Shakespeare Library.
Mr. D. M. Ferry, of Detroit, provided means for making additions to
the Library in the specialties of English Literature, and the works of the
early Christian writers. In the specialty of English Literature was a copy
bf Wordsworth's Descriptive Sketches, 1793, the original edition, bound by
Riviere, and costing $8o.oo. Altogether there were added to the Library
through Mr. Ferry's generosity, Io5 volumes and 25 pamphlets.
Mr. Jas. E. Scripps, of Detroit, made provision for the purchase of
books illustrative of Roman Archeology for the Department of Latin. Of
books of this nature there have been added at Mr. Scripp's expense, 144
volumes. It is a most valuable reinforcement to the art literature of the
Library.
Gifts were also received from President Angell, Dr. Herdman, Dr. S.
A. Jones, E. B. Pond, Esq., Mr. H. C. Ryan, a former student, Dr. S. A.
Green, of Boston, Dr. L. G. Doane, of New York, Professors Demmon.
Hinsdale, Walter, Kelsey and others.
As one of the depository libraries of the country this library receives
the documents of the general government: it is, of course, in receipt of all
Michigan documents: it is also supplied with such documents of other states
as are of value in the work of instruction, or are desired by patrons of the
library.
THE ENDOWMENT FUNDS.-The income of the, Coyl bequest of
$10,ooo.oo, available July I, 1897, was $796.76. Certain books were ordered
by the Committee to be paid for from this amount, but the orders had not
been filled at the time this report closes. The income of the Ford-Messer
bequest of $20,000.00, of which $12,000.00 have been paid in, was, July I,
1897, $638.13. None of the income of this fund has vet been expended.
USE OF THE LIBRARY. —The following statistics are taken from the
report of Mr. Finney on the use of the library:
Recorded reference circulation for the nine months,  -  I28,398 vols.
Drawn for home use by members of the Faculty,  -  -      7,000 "
Total,      -        -                         135,398 vols.
This is an increase of 2% over the twelve months of I895-96. This
"recorded circulation" represents about one-half of the use of the library.
*The daily average of readers in the Reading Room was I60. As


*Of this average of I60, 88, or 55 per cent., were men, and 72, or 45 per cent., women.
Statistics in regard to the character of readers show that 95.90 per cent. were University
students; 2.40 per cent. High School students, and 1.20 per cent., others.




/Z3
VoVE'     ER' M:EET7'IN GC,,897. 89
happened last year the seating capacity of the Reading Room (2I0) was
frequently overtaxed.
The privilege of consulting the books in the Bookroom was granted
to 75 students.
During the two semesters 360 students were admittted to the Seminary
rooms as follows: 80 to the East Room for the study of History, Political
Economy, Philosophy, and Pedagogy; and 270 to the West Room for the
study of English, French and German Literature, and Greek and Iatin
Literature and Art.
CONDITION OF THE LIBRARY.-Books subject to so much use as ours
are must give evidence of it. Every year it is necessary to retire some be
cause they are worn out, and every year a few are lost. On the whole the
books are in good condition as books. This, however, is not true, and has
not been true for several years, if by corndition is meant the shelving of the
books and their accessibility. We have a close classification, with a fixed
location of the volume. When shelves have become full, as all of ours are
now, practically, and a new book is received, a great many changes are
necessary to get it into its place in the classification-not only changes of
volumes on the shelves and their marking, but also changes of the shelf
numbers on the cards of the catalogue. Only those who have done work of
this nature can fully appreciate its difficulties. In the present crowded state
of the Bookroom it has become impossible to make these changes any
longer. The classification cannot be preserved, and with so much, and such
various, temporary shelving as we now have, the marking becomes unintelligible to all except those who have devised it. When your attention was
called to this state of things last May, and the desirability of a change from
a fixed location to a relative one pointed out, you made an appropriation of
$200.00 to begin the change in the summer.
THE WORK OF THE YEAR. —As has already been said the Morris Iibrary
has been put in order for use, and a small part of the Felch Library disposed
of. In October of last year the Alpha Na  Literary Society announced an
intention of disposing of its library which consisted of about I,o00 vols. I
was authorized by the Library Committee to offer $200.00 for the whole
number, and the offer was accepted. The collection was not in good condition as to completeness of sets, and as to bindings, but contained some
scarce editions of American authors and a good many duplicates needed in
the work of instrauction. These books have been catalogued, but they are
yet to be classified, and many of these will require the services of tie binder
before going into use.
In order to afford some relief to the Bookroom and at the same time
to make the books of common reference more accessible to readers, I recommended in the spring the construction of some cases to stand outside of the
delivery desk in which these books might be placed. On your authorization
these cases were made, and the books of reference most in demand have
been removed to them. As the work of reclassifying goes on they will be
filled.
In this connection I may properly call attention to the large numbler




NVOVEMBER MEETING, 1897.


of books received and disposed of-a greater number than have ever before
been added to the library in an equal length of time.
THE LIBRARY FORCE FOR I897-98.-The only change in the permanent force is the appointment of Mr. 11. O. Severance as general assistant
in the place of Mrs. M. W. Loomis who retires on account of ill health.
The desk attendants will be Frank I)iehl, A. A. Crawford, E. F. Carey, and
and R. P. McMaster. Mr. A. C. Adams will have charge of the East Seminary Room and Mr. Fred Heffelbower of the West Room.
THE WORK OF THE COMING YEAR.-When the regular purchases and
the gifts are taken care of and readers served, not much time will be left for
other work. As far as we can plan now, all the spare time we have will be
devoted to carrying forward the change in classification.
EXTENSION OF THE LIBRARY.-An extension of the Library Building
has become a necessity, unless we are willing to see its growth in usefulness
arrested. I think there is no doubt of this necessity in any quarter. The
shelving capacity of the Bookroom, including all the temporary shelving
that it will contain, has been exhausted. To dispose of the overflow outside
of the Bookroom, rooms needed for other purposes have been occupied. If
more temporary shelving can be provided, we can better our present condition, but the congested state will still remain, and the conditions for adininistering the library, which are now hard, will be very hard.
We already have a good deal of matter that is rare and valuable, and
some that is unique. It is impossible under present conditions to guard this
against indiscriminate handling, and consequently from injury, or loss.
There should be rooms that are of fire proof construction where this can
be preserved from danger, and yet made accessible to any who may need to
consult it. Having such conveniences for the safe keeping of especially
valuable material would greatly increase our chances of securing more of it.
The present methods of conducting advanced work in literature, art,
philosophy, language, and the political sciences have come to be called
"laboratory methods."  There must be actual contact of the teacher, the
student, and the illustrative matter, as books, periodicals, maps, diagrams,
models, and pictures. This cannot be done successfully in recitation rooms
distant from the place where all this material is housed. The rooms must
be a part of the Library Building. These advantages for advanced work
are enjoyed in many of the Universities now, and all are working in that
direction.
What lies in the way of this enlargement is lack of funds. The Iegislature can be appealed to for help, but can a reasonable hope of timely help
from that quarter be entertained? If it were to be the sole request made it
is not impossible that it might be granted, but if coupled with others, as it
would almost necessarily be, it is impossible.
In going over the possible ways of obtaining help the following has
seemed to promise most. That it contemplates several things rather than a
single one, increases, it is thought, rather than diminishes, the prospect of
success. An appeal to the Alumni is proposed. The several objects are:




NOVEMOBER MilEE TING, 1897.                    X
i. A practical object, viz.: an extension of the Bookroom sufficient to
relieve the present pressure and provide for the increase of fifteen or twenty
years.
2. Another practical object, viz.: to erect at the end of the extension,
and as a part of it, a building to be known as Alumni Hall. This is to be
devoted to the work of the Graduate School, and provide a home for that
now, and hitherto, homeless branch of the University.
3. A sentimental object, viz.: to make this Alumni Iall a memorial of
the students of the University who died in the civil war. This memorial
feature may appear in a general way in the architecture of the building, and
specifically in some portion of it, open to the public, where the names of the
fallen may appear in mural inscriptions and where their devotion to their
country may be symbolized in appropriate statuary.
The probable cost of the whole would be $Ioo,ooo.
The propriety of some kind of a memorial has been discussed somewhat among the Alumni at various times and is referred to as something
that ought, at some time or other, to be accomplished.
THE OTHER LIBRARIES.
MEDICAL LIBRARY.-The additions to the MIedical Library were 577
volumes. Of these 390 volumes were bought, 36 volumes were presented,
and 51I volumes were the results of binding periodicals. The total of bills
certified to by me for this library was $I,912.04. Of this sum $I,385.06
were for books and periodicals published irregularly, and $526.98 were for
annual subscriptions to medical periodicals.
LAW ILIBRARY. —There were added to the Law Library I,785 volumes.
This large increase over the acquisitions of former years is due to purchases
made with the Buhl bequest of $So,ooo.oo, of which about $8,000.00 were
expended. Inasmuch as these purchases have been largely in the line of
rare books and sets of books that are of great value and interest I desired
Mr. Vance, the Iaw Librarian, to make a brief report in regard to them.
lte reports as follows:
During the past year important and valuable additions have been
made to the Iaw Library. These additions have consisted of such English,
Irish, and Canadian reports as were necessary to make the respective sets
complete; also of a full set each of the New Brunswick and Nova Scotia
reports, and a very full collection of the Scotch reports. These additions
have made the library so far complete that almost the whole body of the
case law may be found upon any given point from the earliest time to the
present —from the Year Bocks to the current decisions of the English courts.
The Library also contains practically complete sets of the decisions of the
Courts of all the states, the reports of the Supreme Court of the United
States of which there are the official edition, and the Iawyers' Co-operative
edition, and also the reports of the other courts of the United States as
reported in official editions, and in the " Federal Cases," and in the Federal
Reporter.




NOVEM BER'        E EETING, Sc9)7.
This statement shows that the library provides the means necessary
for original investigation, and assures the student that he will find everything
in the shape of case law that he seeks."
This state of completeness of the collection to which Mr. Vance refers
results, as I have already said, from the expenditure of the Buhl bequest.
A very careful study of the needs of the library was made, and these it was
found possible to supply to a great extent.
DENTrAIL  IBRARV. ---Forty-two ( 42 ) volumes were added to the
Library of the Dental College. Eight of these were bought and 34 were
the results of binding periodicals.  l'he total of bills certified to by me for
this library for the nine months was $36.25.
IHOOM(EOPATHIC IBRARY. ---In my report for last year I said that I
designed in the future to consider the Hommopathic books as forming a
separate collection. The reasons given for so doing were that they were
bought with money specifically assigned by you for that purpose, and that
they had become sufficiently numerous to justify such a step. A careful
count of them was accordingly made, and there were found to be 325 volumes. This number (325) has been deducted from the whole number of
volumes in the Medical Library, as given at the beginning of this report.
The number of volumes added to the Homceopathic Library during the
nine months was 125. The total of bills certified to by me was $216.87.
THE BINDERY.
The nine months of additional experience with the bindery has not
materially altered the views that were entertained in regard to it when my
last report was made. It has been necessary to add to the expense for
labor on account of the number of unbound books in the Morris Collection,
and an unusual influx of other unbound matter. Of the Morris books alone
there were 592 unbound volumes, which have been bound in leather or
cloth, and are in excellent condition for use. The cost for additional help
was, for the nine months, $I24.00.
It will be necessary to employ some additional help the coming year,
also, to put certain unbound portions of the Felch Library into condition
for use. If the additions to the library become greater for each succeeding year, and the use of the books becomes greater, it is evident that more
binding, rebinding, and repairing will be necessary. If there is this increase
of books, and their use, as we hope there will be, the bindery will be an
economical feature, for it is when the amount of work is the greatest that
the most is saved to a library by owning and operating a bindery. The
actual outlay for the bindery for the nine months was as follows:
Labor....................................................  I,o I9.00
M aterials................................................  343.75
T otal...............................................  $1,362.75


The following table, prepared by Mr. Finney, shows the number of




/'27
NOVEMBER MEETING, 1897.
volumes that have passed through the hands of the binder and the nature
of the work done upon them. It also shows what the cost of the work
would be if done at outside binderies, and the per cent. of work that was
done for each library:
STATEMENT OF BINDING, I896-97.
(Nine months-Oct., '96, to June, '97.)
Estimated  Average expense
No. vols.  outside price.  per vol.
Bound and rebound,               1,594    $I,240.95        $.77-;
Repaired, resewed, etc.,          667        159.83.24
Paper covers and bookplates,     4,418        63.68. oI-i;
Total,               6,679    $1,464.46
DISTRIBUTION BY DEPARTMENTS.
Per cent. of
GENERAL LIBRARY-                                       total expense.
Bound and rebound (Morris lib.),  592       $385.40
("        other,          741        649.90
Repaired and resewed,             495        109.25
Paper covers and bookplates,     2,647        47.42
4,475      I,I91.97          81.39
LAW LIBRARYBound and rebound,                107         65.35
Repaired, etc.,                   158         44-13
Paper covers and book plates,    1,771        16.26
2,036       I25.74           8.59
MEDICAL LIBRARYBound and rebound,                 133       I24.55
Repaired, etc.,                    12          6.20
I45        130.75           8.93
HOMMOPATHIC LIBRARYBound and rebound,                  4          3.00
Repaired, etc.,                     2            25
6          3.25.22
DENTAL LIBRARYBound and rebound,                 17         12.75.87
Total,               6,679    $I,464.46         I00.00
A comparison of the cost of the work at outside binderies with the
cost for labor and material shows a balance in favor of the bindery of
$IOI.71.
On the basis of the percentages shown in the above table the expense
to be borne by each of the libraries is as follows:




NOV'ElMBEAR AEE7TING, 1897.


General Library,         81.39 per cent. of 1I,362.75 - $1,I09. I4
Medical Library,          8.93.      =    121.70
Law Library,              8.59    "       "    -    117.06
Homceopathic Library,.22    ".( 3.00
Dental Library,.77    "       "          I I.85
$I,362.75
These amounts have been charged to the appropriations of the several
libraries.                 Very respectfully submitted,
RAYMOND C. DAvis,
November I7, 1897.                               Librarian.
On motion of Regent Barbour the Librarian's report was
accepted.
Regent Fletcher, Chairman of the Committee on Buildings and Grounds, stated that there was some question about
the quality of the tile specified in the contract for covering the
Dormitory Building, and in his judgment the Detroit tile
should not be used.
Regent Butterfield moved that the building be covered
with Akron tile at an additional cost of $325. It was so
ordered as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Butterfield.
Nays —None.
On motion the Board went into Executive Session.
Dr. Vaughan appeared before the Board and stated that
the Asylum Boards of the State were to hold a joint session at
Pontiac on the evening of November the 17th and that one
of the questions which would be considered at the meeting
was the appointment of a pathologist to be located at the
University, and who should do the pathological work of all
the State Asylums.  They asked that the University send a
representative to confer with them on the feasibility of such a
course.
On motion of Regent Cocker Regent Kiefer and Dr.
Vaughan were requested to meet the Asylum Boards in conference and report at the next meeting of the Board.
The business of the open session was then resumed.
On motion of Regent Cocker an appropriation of $65




NO IVElAIBE'/R ILE/ 7/NE;II7G,,iS9q7. 
was made for the purchase of reflectors for the electric lamps
in the Zoological and Botanical Laboratories by the following
vote:
Ayes — Regents BarI)(our, C.ocker, Cook, 1.)ean, Kliefer, Fletcher, and
Butterfiell.
Navs -— None.
On motion of Regent Harbour the de(gree of Bachelor of
Science was conferred upon \illis (Gurdon Cook, and the
degree of Master of Arts upon George King Lawton, A. B.
On motion of Regent Cocker the (lqestion of the appointment of Professor J. B-. Steere to some active work in the
University in accordance witl tle resolution of the Alumni
Association was referred to Reo-n't larbour and the President
to consider and report at the next meeting of the Board.
Regent Kiefer read a communication from the Dean of
the Dental Department asking tlat a quizmaster in Physiology
be appointed in that Department at a salary of $o00.
On motion the request was denied.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the degree of LL. B.
was conferred upon Frank Forest Freemlan in accordance with
the recommendation of the law Faculty.
Regent Dean read a communication from the " Hospital
Circle of the King's Daughters " asking for the use of University Hall in which to give a reading from the poems of the
late Eugene Field, by his daughter Miss Mary French Field,
the proceeds to be used in aiding the worthy poor who cotme
to the Hospital for treatment.
On motion of Regent Dean the request was granted.
On motion of Regent Cocker the Board took a recess
until 2 o'clock p. M.
AFTERNOON        SESSION.
The Board re-assembled at 2 o'clock p. M.
On motion of Regent Cocker the Committee on Buildings and Grounds was authorized to lower the incline of the
floor of University Hall 22 2 inches.




NO VEIA'MBE~R MiEE TIAG, 897.


Regent Fletcher moved that the Board reseat the gallery
in University Hall with opera chairs of the same kind and
quality as those contracted for for the lower floor of said hall,
provided the Grand Rapids School Furniture Co. will furnish
and place the same for $1.50 each.
It was so ordered by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Secretary was authorized to purchase one hundred lockers for the Women's Gymnasilum by the following vote:
Ayes —Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Butterfield.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds was directed to put additional heating
in room C, Main Building, and to ceil and heat the basement
room in Tappan Hall used by Professor Pettee, at a total cost
not exceeding $200. The vote was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Butterfield.
Nays —None.
On motion of Regent Cocker the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds was instructed to put a wood shed on
the Keeper's house at the Athletic Grounds at a cost of 825
by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Butterfield.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Committee on Buildings and Grounds was allowed $5,000 from the general fund
to complete the electric lighting plant by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Butterfield.
Nays-None.
Regent Fletcher moved that the New State Telephone
Company put a phone in the Secretary's office at a cost not




0;'OV EI1/JBE/t'? R JTE 77ATG, 1897.


13 j


exceeding $i8 per year. Regent Dean moved that the company be required to give a bond to protect the University
against prosecution for violation of patents; the vote on Regent
Dean's motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Dean and Kiefer.
Nays-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Fletcher, and Butterfield.
A vote was then taken on the original motion which
resulted as follows:
Ayes —Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Kiefer, Fletcher, and Butterfield.
Nays-Regent Dean.
On motion of Regent Cocker the schedule of salaries was
laid on the table until the next Budget should be made.
On motion of Regent Barbour a leave of absence of two
weeks was given Mr. H. W. Clark, Superintendent of University Hospital.
On motion of Regent Iean $75 was appropriated for the
purpose of connecting the stereopticon in the museum with
the new lighting plant by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Barbour, Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, and Fletcher.
Nays-None.
On motion the Secretary was authorized to pay the bill of
$io presented by W. Dansingburg for clerk fees in the case of
the University vs. Root Lewis et al.
On motion of Regent Cook the Board adjourned to
December 22, at Io o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




DECEMBER MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, )
ANN ARBOR, December 22, 1897, 
The Board assembled in the Dean's office in the Law
Department at 0o o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher,
and Farr.
Absent, Regents Barbour and Butterfield.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Kiefer, approved and ordered
printed.
The President stated that his annual report had been
prepared and was subject to the wishes of the Board. The
Board expressed a desire to hear the report read, which was
done. The report is as follows:
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
By request of President Angell, I have prepared, and
beg leave to present to you, the President's annual report for
the year ending September 30, 1897. In the performance of
this duty, I have labored under considerable embarrassment
by reason of the fact that during the year that the report
covers, I was identified with but one department of the University and had only a limited opportunity for observing the
work of the University as a whole. For the most of this
report I am indebted to the heads of the different departments, who, at my request, have kindly furnished me with
necessary information and with suggestions as to pressing
needs.
Appended to the report will be found a list of the
appointments, reappointments, and resignations of members




134


DECEMBER AMEETING, 1897.


of the Faculties during the year; a statement of the degrees
conferred since the last report; a summary of students in
attendance, and a list of the examinations for advanced
degrees held during the year.
As will be seen in the summary of students in attendance,
the total enrollment of the year, exclusive of Summer School
students, was twenty-eight hundred and seventy-eight, a slight
falling off from the attendance of the previous year, which
was twenty-nine hundred and twenty-two. In most of the
Departments, however, the attendance was larger than ever
before, the decrease being mainly in the Department of Law.
But this was expected, and was due to the change in that
Department from a two to a three years' course. It should
be noted in this connection that the attendance of the present
year exceeds that of any previous year, it having now reached
the unprecedented number of 3,090. It is probable that the
total enrollment of the present year, exclusive of Summer
School students, will reach 3,150. One fact in connection
with the attendance of the last few years must especially challenge attention, namely, that the number of Michigan students has been steadily gaining. During the years I893-4,
1894-5, I895-6, and 1896-7, the attendance from Michigan
was, respectively, 1,400, 1,551, r,632, and 1,747. The University of Michigan belongs to the people of the State, and
that there is a growing appreciation among the people of the
advantages offered here is certainly apparent from the increasing attendance of Michigan students. With over sixty-five
per cent. of 'our students coming from Michigan homes, it
cannot be doubted that the influence of the University is
rapidly permeating every part of our commonwealth. But
while we are gratified with this proof of local appreciation,
we should not forget that our non-resident contingent contributes much to the strength and influence of the University.
It is certainly a matter of congratulation that the non-resident
attendance continues to be so large and that so many States
and countries are represented in our student community.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


135


During the last year the non-resident students numbered
I,I3I, coming from forty-four different States and territories
and from the following foreign countries and provinces:
China, England, Japan, Germany, Hawaiian Islands, Austria,
Barbadoes, Bulgaria, Norway, Russia, South Africa, Ontario,
and Quebec.    Illinois sent us the largest number, 307.  The
number from Ohio was i99; from Indiana, 102; from Iowa,
82; from New York, 70; from Pennsylvania, 68; from Missouri, 39; from Wisconsin, 33; from Massachusetts, 30; from
Kansas, 24; from California and Kentucky, each 23; from
Minnesota, 19; from Colorado and Utah, each 17; from Montana and Nebraska, each i3; from Washington, II. Ontario
sent us I6 students, and 63 came from the New England
States.
The number of women in attendance was as follows:
Department of Literature, Science, and  the Arts.............................. 55I
Department of  Medicine  and  Surgery...........................................  7I
Department of  Law...............................................................   6
School  of  Pharmacy.................................................................  7
Homoeopathic Medical. College..............................................  7
College of  Dental Surgery....................................................   5
647
In the last report of the President, the number of women
in attendance was given as 6oi.    The increase of 46 was
mainly in the Literary Department, although, with one exception, there was a slight increase in all departments.
The notable event of the year was the appointment of
President Angell to the Turkish mission.  Three times before
during his long and brilliant service as chief executive of the
University, he has been summoned by our General Government to public duties of great delicacy and responsibility.
And in the discharge of these public trusts he has always
brought signal honor to himself and to the University.   His
learning, his natural temperament and abilities, together with
his large experience in public affairs, so eminently fit President Angell for diplomatic service that his selection for
further labors in that field met with a generous and universal




136


DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


approval.  Although regretting the temporary withdrawal
from active duties here that the acceptance of the call would
necessitate, and the loss to the University that would inevitably come therefrom, the members of this Board were of the
opinion that the wishes of the Administration and the public
should be respected. They, therefore, unanimously granted
a leave of absence.
In the general work of the Literary Department during
the past year there was little that calls for special comment.
The different courses were given as announced, and it is the
universal feeling that the best of results were realized.  In
some lines of work the instructors labored under serious
embarrassment by reason of the large classes that they were
compelled to conduct. In lecture courses, the size of the
class is a matter of small importance, but in courses in
which the scheme of instruction contemplates that the student
shall receive individual attention and drill, if substantial
advancement is to be made, it is of the highest importance
that the sections be of a size that will admit of personal
work with each student at each exercise. My inquiries have
led me to the conclusion that in the departments of modern
language particularly the classes are over-crowded, and that
relief should be afforded by enlarging the instructing force
as soon as the necessary funds are available.
The Professorship of Philosophy, which had been vacant
for nearly two years, was filled at the January meeting of
this Board, in 1896, by the election of Professor Robert M.
Wenley.   He entered upon his duties October I, 1896.
Under his direction the department was reorganized during
the past year and more fully equipped. Provision was made
for instruction in physiological psychology, and, by reason of
the increase in the instructing force, the department was
enabled materially to enlarge its field of work. As a result,
a new impetus was given to the study of philosophy and
larger numbers were at once attracted to the courses.
During the past year there were eighty-six students doing




DECE/EMBER MEETING, 1897.


137


graduate work in the Literary Department. Five of these
were studying in absentia for the Master's degree and five,
although candidates for an advanced degree, were enrolled in
other departments. The enrollment of the previous year in
the Graduate School was seventy-four. This slight increase
in attendance is encouraging, but the growth and prosperity
of the Department are not what they should be, or what they
would be if the necessary funds for its development were forthcoming. Our first duty as a State University is undoubtedly to
the undergraduates. This is emphatically true so long as the
State makes no special appropriation for the equipment and
maintenance of a graduate department and the department is
without private endowment or support. Under existing circumstances, we can conduct graduate study only in connection with the undergraduate work and as incidental thereto.
No professor can give his undivided attention and predominant energies to graduate students, and no professor should,
under the present conditions or unless specially engaged for
that purpose. In this University graduate instruction should
never, in my judgment, be given at the expense of undergraduate instruction. But this advanced work must be done
in some way, if we are to retain our place as one of the leading universities of the country. There are other reasons,
also, for its encouragement, and not the least of these is the
wholesome influence of a graduate department upon undergraduate work. There is, moreover, a demand for advanced
instruction, and we should not forget that, in providing for
this, we are serving the commonwealth, for we are supplying
in some measure the pressing and increasing public necessity
for young men and young women who are thoroughly equipped
for expert work in the higher departments of activity  It is
pertinent, I think, that I should quote briefly upon this subject from President Angell's last report: "It would," he says,
"be a grave mistake for the Regents or for the State to fail
in appreciation of the great value to us of the vigorous prosecution of the advanced work of graduate students. The




138


DECEMBER MEE TING, z1897


presence of such a body of mature and aspiring students is
uplifting and inspiring in its influence on the undergraduates.
Moreover, if we are really to prepare men and women for
conspicuous positions, we must carry them beyond the boundaries of the undergraduate curriculum.  Especially is this
true of those who are aiming to occupy prominent places as
teachers. There is in almost every field of activity a call for
a certain number of men so thoroughly trained that they may
justly be called experts in their special departments. The
institution that is unable to furnish this kind of training can
hardly aspire to the name of a university. It is the proper
and the necessary function of this University to supply this
instruction. Else the sons and daughters of Michigan must
needs go elsewhere to find it. We do not believe that the
State desires that they should be compelled to go elsewhere.
But it should be understood that this advanced teaching
makes great demands on the professors. Each teacher can
profitably instruct only a small number. The teaching must
be largely personal, that is, specially adapted to the needs of
each individual student. It is, of course, more expensive
than undergraduate instruction. The question, therefore,
with which this University and the other large State universities is confronted, is this: Are the States willing to furnish
the means for providing this kind of instruction? Just now
there is no more important question concerning higher education to be passed on by our western States." It is certainly to be hoped that the people of the State of Michigan
will in the near future answer this question in the affirmative
and come to the aid of the University in its effort to supply
the demand for graduate instruction, or that some of our
wealthy citizens may liberally endow the department. It is
a most worthy object for private benefaction, and a gift for
this purpose would be of inestimable value not only to the
graduate department but to the University as a whole. It
would also be a graceful and enduring testimonial to the
cause of advanced scholarship in the west.




DECEMBER MEETINVG, 1897.


139


At the January meeting of this Board in l896, Dr. Eliza
M. Mosher was elected Professor of Hygiene and Women's
Dean in the Department of Literature, Science, and the
Arts.  This was a step that had been for some time contemplated, and the wisdom of the action was at once recognized.  The expected completion at an early date of the
Women's Gymnasium emphasized the necessity of provision
being made at once for the superintendence and direction of
the physical education of the women of the University. Dr.
Mosher entered upon her duties October I, 1896. She at
once organized a course in Hygiene.    This was made
elective but was very generally attended. The first semester
was devoted to a consideration of Personal Hygiene; the
second, to Domestic and Municipal Hygiene, including
School Hygiene. It was the aim of the instructor to make
her teaching so practical that it should make its own appeal
for adoption into the lives of those taught.  Dr. Mosher's
duties as Dean include, in addition to those which ordinarily
belong to that office, a general physical examination of each
new woman student and a registration of her physical history
and condition upon beginning her course of study in the
University. This examination, in addition to the incidental
use that it serves in connection with the granting of excuses
for absences, enables the instructor to decide as to the advisability and safety of gymnasium work for each student.
It also brings her into close relation with the women of the
University in the early months of their student life, thus
giving opportunity for personal counsel at a time when it is
often much needed. During the year one hundred and fiftythree women were enrolled for gymnasium work.  Careful
physical measurements of nearly all were made and a chart
was prepared for each. In this way the instructor was able
to estimate at the close of the year the degree of development attained.  As planned, the gymnasium  course for
women extends over three years, the work of each year being
more difficult and demanding greater skill and self-control




140


DECEMBER MEETING, rS97.


than that of the previous year. In a communication to me
upon the subject, Dr. Mosher states that the gymnasium
work was interrupted and made more difficult by reason of
irregularity in attendance, and suggests that in her judgment
the highest success can be gained only by including the work
in that required by the University or by placing it upon the
credit basis. The experience of the past year has, in my judgment, demonstrated the necessity for the new chair and the
fitness of the incumbent. It is to be hoped that the way will be
opened in the near future for completing the women's gymnasium, as in its present unfinished state the work of the department must necessarily be more or less imperfect and incomplete.
The gymnasium work with the men was carried on during
the past year without any particular change. But a special
effort was made to interest the students more generally in the
physical examinations.  Improved physical measurements
were adopted which show at a glance, by means of a chart,
the general condition of the student examined and also his
relation to the average student. These charts are furnished
the students free of charge, and they are proving quite successful. The total membership of the gymnasium for men,
as shown by the lockers rented, was ten hundred and thirtytwo, divided among departments as follows: Faculty, six;
Literary, three hundred and ninety-seven; Law, two hundred
and forty; Engineering, one hundred and fifty; Medical, one
hundred and thirty-seven; Dental, seventy-four; Pharmacy,
twenty-three; Homoeopathic, five.  The  average  daily
attendance is reported by the Director as having been about
three hundred and fifty.  The number of classes daily was
three. Many lockers were rented by students simply for the
purpose of having access to the baths, and this, I am
advised, continues to be the practice. It is a very general
feeling among the faculties that some means ought to be
devised for awakening a more extended interest in regular
gymnasium  work.  Under the present regulations which
leave the taking of the courses and attendance at classes




DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


141


entirely at the option of the student, the Director must
necessarily be seriously handicapped in any efforts that he
may make to reach large numbers or to bring about regularity
in work. In many universities certain classes of students are
required to report regularly at the gymnasium for assigned
exercises, and in others, when a student has once elected the
work, he is required to attend regularly and complete the
course unless excused by the proper authority. The matter
has been considered by the Literary Faculty and by the
Senate at different times, but such consideration has never
resulted in the adoption of definite requirements. It is to be
hoped that some scheme will be formulated whereby the
opportunities offered by the gymnasium may be taken advantage of by larger numbers and particularly by those who
are most in need of physical training and development.
The separation of. the Department of Engineering, two
years ago, from the Department of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, of which it had so long been a part, brought the
engineering instructors more in touch with the students, and
it became possible to look more carefully after matters of
administration and discipline.  The engineering students
still have the same privileges of choice of the different
branches given in the Department of Literature, Science, and
the Arts so far as is compatible with the amount of required
work in their chosen lines; and in social and class matters,
they are regarded by the literary students as classmates. As
the young men come from the same schools, at the same age,
it has been felt desirable to foster and encourage a mutual
respect for literary and technical studies.
The revised and moderately increased requirements for
admission to the Department of Engineering, already accepted
by this Board, go into effect next year. Good results are
expected from the change. After a long and careful discussion, and with the approval of the Board, the scheme of
required work has been recast, some new subjects added, and
the number of hours of work prescribed for a degree increased




142


DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


from one hundred and twent, to one I/zndr-ed acnd thirty. The
prescribed work of the first year has been made the same for
all students. This change necessitates the postponement by
the new student of the definite choice of a particular branch
of engineering for a year, when, it is thought, he is better
able to select the line of work for which he is suited.
The shops of the Department are now busy and crowded
through both semesters, and any material increase in the
number of students will necessitate an increase of shop capacity, unless the required work is cut down.
More room is needed in the Department of Electrical
Engineering, as it is without a drafting room, and there is
but one lecture-room for both Physics and Electrical Engineering. The experimental work in steam and mechanical
engineering should also have enlarged quarters. Some of
the apparatus has to be set up and taken down each year to
make room for other experiments. Consequently the number of students that can work in experimental lines is seriously
limited. The quarters occupied by the Electrical Engineering Laboratory are also very restricted. A new building for
experimental work in these two departments is very much
needed and should, if possible, be provided in the near
future.
Some short courses in Electrical Engineering will hereafter be offered to students in Civil and Mechanical Engineering, and some of the courses in drafting and experimental
electrical work will be extended. These additions have been
made possible by the employment of another instructor.
There seems to be a growing disposition for students to
extend their course so as to include both Mechanical and
Electrical Engineering.
Attention of the Board, I think, should be called to the
fact that frequent inquiries are made for a course in Architecture and also for a course in Marine Engineering or Naval
Architecture. If facilities in these lines could be offered,
they would undoubtedly attract many students.




DECEMBER MIEETIWNG, 1897.


143


Duriig the past year the Department of Medicine and
Surgery experienced a large degree of success. In I890 this
Department began the first obligatory four years' course
demanded by any medical school in the United States. The
friends of the Department and of the University in general
were very much afraid that the increased requirements for
admission and the increased length of the courses of instruction would greatly diminish the number of students. That
this fear was altogether groundless, is shown by the fact that
the number of students enrolled last year was greater than
ever before in the history of the Department, with the exception of a few years directly after the close of the war, when
many young men who had been in the hospital service of the
army crowded into the Medical schools. While success is not
by any means to be measured by the number of students, but
rather by the excellence of the work, it is gratifying to know
that the men and women who intend to enter the medical
profession are willing to spend more time and more money in
getting their professional education, provided they feel confident that they are obtaining the best that the country
affords.
The number of students in this Department is as large as
can be accommodated with the present equipment. In fact,
all the laboratories are crowded to their utmost capacity and
there is urgent need of liberal appropriations from some
source in order to enlarge and improve the facilities. Medical education has made great advances within recent years,
and if the University is to maintain the position that it has
won among the great medical schools of the world, we must
have improved facilities. It is to be hoped that the Legislature and the people will appreciate these facts and that provision for the pressing needs of this Department will be
forthcoming.
During the past year only about fifty-six per cent. of the
patients applying for admission to the University Hospital
were accommodated inside the building.  The number of




144


DE CEMBER MEE TIVNG, i8 97.


beds should be largely increased. The University Hospital
is a great medical charity; it is worthy of the support of the
State. The majority of patients coming here are people who
can well afford to pay the small fees demanded for board and
room, but would not be able to pay for expert medical attention. Hundreds are saved from the pauper classes each year
by the work of this institution. An examination of the list
of patients for a number of years past shows that the majority
come from the rural communities of the State. The farmers,
more than any other class, reap the benefits of the hospital
facilities given by the University. The last Legislature apparently appreciated these facts, and made an appropriation
for keeping the hospitals open during the summer. Two or
three bills were also passed which will better provide for
those who need the care that can be given here. This Board
has done what it could with the limited means at its command,
to improve the hospital facilities.  Sun-rooms have been
added, and a building is now in process of erection for the
accommodation of nurses. This building will also furnish
dining-room  accommodation for patients.  But the other
improvements indicated are in the nature of pressing needs,
and it is hoped that the way for making them will soon be
opened.
I am pleased to be able to report that the last year was
a successful one in the Department of Law. For the first
time the three years' course was in full operation. Its success has now been thoroughly demonstrated. As was expected, there was a slight falling off in attendance last year,
but that it was only temporary, and due entirely to the lengthening of the course, is apparent from the fact that this year
the attendance is very much larger than ever before in the
history of the Department. The increase is particularly significant when we remember that, in addition to the lengthening of the course, the requirements for admission have been
materially raised, and that the new requirements went into
effect for the first time this year. With three large classes in




DECEMBER MEE TING, I897.


145


attendance, the accommodations for this Department, as this
Board well understands, are entirely inadequate. The failure
of the Legislature at its last session to make an appropriation
for an addition to the building, made it necessary for us to
resort to some temporary arrangement for the accommodation
of the increasing numbers. The old chapel in the central
building has been temporarily assigned to this Department,
and is now in constant use for law classes. But the expe
dient is far from satisfactory. The room was not designed
for lecture purposes; with reference to the Law Department
it is inconveniently located, and it is much needed at times
for exercises of the Literary Department. Furthermore the
mingling of large classes from different departments in the
same building is liable to result in more or less confusion and
disorder. With the increased attendance the library accommodations of the Department are far from adequate. I am
well aware of the fact that the Board understands fully the
necessity for an addition to the building of this Department
and that the needed improvement will be made as soon as the
means therefor are available.
During the year there were some changes in the Faculty
of this Department. These are noted in Appendix A. The
practical work of the Department was materially strengthened
by the addition of a course in conveyancing and by the provision for a professorship in this subject. As stated by the
Librarian in his report, a large part of the Buhl bequest has
been expended for additions to the Law Library, principally
for foreign reports, in which the collection was noticeably
weak. The Library is now one of the best in the country for
law school purposes and with a comparatively small additional expenditure could be made practically complete. The
expense of keeping it up, however, is considerable, and it is
hoped that some friend of the Department will provide a
permanent endowment for that purpose.
Under arrangements perfected during the past year, it is
now possible for a student to carry on, to some extent and




146


DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


under certain conditions, collegiate studies and studies in
law at the same time, and thereby shorten the combined
courses by one year. Students taking this combined course
are subject to the special direction and control of a joint
committee from the Literary and Law Departments. This
step, I think, is a most desirable one. Already quite a large
number of students are taking advantage of the opportunity,
and the result will undoubtedly be that many will be attracted
to collegiate work who otherwise would pass directly from
the high school to their law studies.
In the School of Pharmacy the course of four years is
steadily gaining ground, both in the number of its students
and in the opportunities of its graduates.  The research
work has received, in the past two years, the support of a
fellowship granted by the liberality of Messrs. F. Stearns &
Co., and now continued for another year.  Of still larger
advantage has been the employment in the laboratory of the
school of graduate workers in research upon the Revision of
the Pharmacopoeia of the United States. This employment
of our graduates, now authorized for another year, embraces
both experimentation in the laboratory and compilation in
the library, the resources of the latter being fully taxed to
meet this demand.   The highest awards for investigation
have been accorded lately by the American Pharmaceutical
Association to work done under the fellowship in this school.
During' the past year the laboratories of the Chemical
Building provided for an average number of about three
hundred and thirty students working at the same time. Of
these about one hundred and forty were students of the Departments of Literature and of Engineering, one hundred and
twenty were students of the Medical and Dental Schools, and
over seventy were students of the School of Pharmacy. The
number of different students taking laboratory courses during
the year was six hundred and seven. And over seven hundred students of the University were enrolled in the various
chemical lecture courses within the year. These numbers,




DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


147


and the advanced character of various parts of the work,
make severe demands upon the building and its outfit, as
well as upon the teaching force.  Many portions of the
building are greatly in need of thorough renovation, as well
as better lecture -room provision. The limited expenditures
made for these needs a year ago gave much relief. Until
there is permanent renewal of the ceilings, interior walls,
and floors, temporary repair is a necessity of common
cleanliness.
The Chemical Building, its outfit, and its teaching force
are factors in the education of the students of the several
departments of the University, as enumerated above. And
on these factors will depend almost wholly the graduate work
in pure chemistry and the advanced work in chemical technology, interests which together have drawn a fair number of
enthusiastic students, and which represent many active
chemical alumni.  These interests so closely concern the
industrial advantage of the State with its great natural
chemical resources, and so affect its educational credit in
the world, that they may well be commended to the wise
judgment and the supporting hand of the State and to the
benefaction of private individuals.
The Homceopathic Medical College enjoyed a year of
unusual prosperity. The attendance, although small as compared with other Departments, was much larger than the year
previous, nearly double in fact. The year gave promise of
the increasing prosperity of the present year. The Department is now well under way. It has an able Faculty, is free
from internal discords, and with the aid of the extensive laboratories of the University and its well-equipped hospital, it
certainly furnishes to its students a professional education
that is not second in completeness and thoroughness to that
given by any homoeopathic school in the country.  The
books of the superintendent show that the hospital patronage
in this Department last year was greater than ever before,
and that the hospital came nearer paying running expenses




148


DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


than ever before. The new and increased facilities given by
this Board in the way of a pharmacological laboratory for
the proving of drugs are fully appreciated by the Department,
as are the additional teaching advantages that have been provided for in pathology, clinical dermatology, and obstetrical
clinics. The training school for nurses established in connection with the Homoeopathic Hospital, had a successful
year and is doing a good work.
There was nothing in the affairs of the College of Dental
Surgery during the past year that calls for special mention or
comment. The attendance was somewhat larger than the
year before, and the work was prosecuted with the earnestness and thoroughness that have from the first characterized
this Department, and that have gained for it an international
reputation in the profession. The largely increased attendance of the present year is taxing to the utmost the accommodations and equipment of the Department.
From the report of the Librarian, already presented to
this Board, and which covers the nine months from October
I, i896, to June 30, 1897, I make the following extracts:
"There were in all the libraries of the University June
30, 1897, 113,990 volumes, 17,555 unbound pamphlets, and
1,275 maps. Of these there were in the General Library,
91,I12 volumes, 16,065 unbound pamphlets, and 1,275 maps;
in the Law Library, 13,849 volumes; in the Medical Library,
7,762 volumes and 1,490 unbound pamphlets; in the Library
of the Dental College, 817 volumes; and in the Library of the
Homceopathic Medical College, 450 volumes. During the
year 625 periodicals were regularly received as follows: In
the General Library, 450; in the Medical Library, 13I; in
the Law Library, 12; in the Library of the Dental College,
I3; and in the Library of the Homceopathic Medical College,
I9. Ten daily and fifteen weekly newspapers were also regularly received."
The Librarian reports the following additions during the
nine months covered by his report: To the General Library,




DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


149


6,414 volumes, 45 unbound pamphlets, and 78 maps; to the
Medical Library, 577 volumes; to the Law Library, 1,785
volumes. This large increase in the Law Library over the
acquisitions of former years was due to purchases made
from the Buhl bequest. To the Library of the Dental College, 42 volumes were added, and to the Homceopathic
Library 125 volumes.
The Librarian reports the following gifts: "From the
Duke of Loubat was received a copy of a Pre-Columbian
Mexican Book, known as the Vatican MS., No. 5773. An
explanatory treatise accompanies it. It is most interesting
as showing the form of book in use on a part of this continent at the time of its discovery.  We are under obligations
to Mr. Harlan I. Smith, of Washington, for presenting the
claims of this University for a copy of the work to the Duke
of Loubat.
"From His Highness the Maharajah of Japan, through
Col. S. S. Jacob, Stuperintending Engineer, six portfolios of
architectural drawings were received.  These drawings were
chiefly from old buildings at or near Delhi and Agra.
Students of architecture cannot fail to find these inspiring.
"The Government of Her Majesty the Queen of England presented a set of the Report of the Scientific Results
of the Challenger Expedition, 44 volumes. These volumes
are of first importance for the work in Zoology and the other
natural sciences.
"The purchase of a copy of the Third Folio of Shakespeare, 1664, was authorized by the Hon. James McMillan at
a cost of $38I.75. Mr. McMillan at the same time authorized the expenditure of $1oo.oo more to make additions to
the Shakespeare Library.
"Mr. D. M. Ferry, of Detroit, provided means for
making additions to the Library in the specialties of English
Literature and the works of the early Christian writers.
* * * * In all there were added to the Library through
Mr. Ferry's generosity o05 volumes and twenty-five pamphlets.




150


DECEMBER MEE TING, 1897.


"Mr. James E. Scripps, of Detroit, made provision for
the purchase of books illustrative of Roman Archaeology for
the Department of Latin. Of books of this nature, there
have been added at Mr. Scripps's expense I44 volumes. It is a
mostvaluable reinforcement to the art literature of the Library.
"Gifts were also received from President Angell, Dr.
Herdman, Dr. S. A. Jones, E. B. Pond, Esq., Mr. H. C.
Ryan, a former student, Dr. S. A. Green, of Boston, Dr. L.
G. Doane, of New York, Professors Demmon, Hinsdale,
Walter, Kelsey, and others."
The following from the Librarian's report in regard to
the necessity of increased library facilities is of special importance, and I commend it to the thoughtful consideration
of every alumnus and friend of the University:
"An extension of the Library Building has become a
necessity, unless we are willing to see its growth and usefulness arrested. I think there is no doubt of this necessity in
any quarter.  The shelving capacity of the book-room,
including all the temporary shelving that it will contain, has
been exhausted. To dispose of the overflow outside of the
book-room, rooms needed for other purposes have been
occupied. If more temporary shelving can be provided, we
can better our present condition, but the congested state will
still remain, and the conditions for administering the library,
which are now hard, will be very hard.
"We already have a good deal of matter that is rare and
valuable, and some that is unique. It is impossible under
present conditions to guard this against indiscriminate handling, and consequently from injury, or loss. There should
be rooms that are of fire proof construction where this can
be preserved from danger, and yet made accessible to any
who may need to consult it. Having such conveniences for
the safe keeping of especially valuable material would greatly
increase our chances of securing more of it.
"The present methods of conducting advanced work in
literature, art, philosophy, language, and the political sciences




DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


151


have come to be called "laboratory methods."  There must
be actual contact of the teacher, the student, and the illustrative matter, as books, periodicals, maps, diagrams, models,
and pictures. This cannot be done successfully in recitation
rooms distant from the place where all this material is housed.
The rooms must be a part of the Library Building. These
advantages for advanced work are enjoyed in many of the
universities now, and all are working in that direction.
"What lies in the way of this enlargement is a lack of funds.
The Legislature can be appealed to for help, but can a reasonable hope of timely help from that quarter be entertained?
"If it were to be the sole request made it is not impossible that it might be granted, but, if coupled with others, as
it would almost necessarily be, it is impossible.
"In going over the possible ways of obtaining help the
following has seemed to promise most. That it contemplates
several things rather than a single one, increases, it is thought,
ather than diminishes, the prospect of success. An appeal
to the Alumni is proposed. The several objects are:
i. A practical object, viz., an extension of the bookroom sufficient to relieve the present pressure and provide for
the increase of fifteen or twenty years.
2. Another practical object, viz., to erect at the end of
the extension, and as a part of it, a building to be known as
Alumni Hall. This is to be devoted to the work of the
Graduate School, and provide a home for that now, and
hitherto, homeless branch of the University.
3. A sentimental object, viz., to make this Alumni Hall
a memorial of the students of the University who died in the
civil war. This memorial feature may appear in a general
way in the architecture of the building, and specifically in
some portion of it, open to the public, where the names of the
fallen may appear in mural inscriptions and where their devotion to their country may be symbolized in appropriate statuary.
"The probable cost of the whole would be $Ioo,ooo.
"The propriety of some kind of a memorial has been




152


DECEMABER IMEETING, 1897.


discussed somewhat among the alumni at various times, and
is referred to as something that ought, at some time or other,
to be accomplished."
I heartily concur in the foregoing, and I desire to express
the hope that some way may be found in the near future for
providing for the necessities of this important department of
the University.
Several changes were made in the Museum during the
past year. The mineralogical collections were removed to
Tappan Hall, and the space thus vacated in the south wing
utilized for a museum lecture room for classes in Zoology,
Geology, and Botany, thus obviating the necessity for carrying the specimens needed for illustration about the campus.
Electricity was brought in for the stereopticon, and the room
provided with opaque shades, making a good lantern room
with a seating capacity of about a hundred and fifty.
Room 4, in the fourth story, was provided with adjustable shelving for the reception of the collections of alcoholic
material formerly scattered in part through the museum and
in part stored in the zoological laboratory. Possible danger
from fire was guarded against by providing an adequate system of overhead sprays, and a metal covered floor, inclined
toward a discharge pipe opening on the outside of the build-ing. The water can be turned on from the outside, and the
whole room instantly drenched.
The work of identifying and labelling the bird collection
has been completed, and the record reduced to the form of a
card catalogue. The specimens are catalogued both under
their scientific and their common names, and a system of
numbering adopted which shows the exact whereabouts of
each individual specimen so that any specimen desired can
be found at once. A large number of duplicate specimens
have been removed from the exhibition cases, and the space
thus gained has been utilized for the installation of a number
of bird groups, each of which is intended to illustrate an
important fact,




DECEMBER MEETIVNG, 1897.


153


No gifts of importance were received during the past
year, but two noteworthy additions were made to the mammal
collection by purchase. The Museum has been fortunate
enough to secure a fine pair of walruses, collected by Lieutenant Peary, and a group of fur-seals from the Pacific.
At present, work upon the collection of shells is in
progress. This valuable collection, which has been long
stored away out of sight, is being identified and catalogued
and a series of specimens prepared for exhibition.
Reference should be made to the following gifts that
were received during the year besides those mentioned in the
Librarian's report: The F. D. Bennett Scholarship Fund of
$I50.00; a contribution from the class of I896, in the
Literary Department, of $200.00 to the Archaeological Fund;
and a Class Memorial Fund of $I35.34 from the Literary
Class of 1897.
The electric light plant provided for by the last Legislature has been practically completed, and bids fair to give
excellent satisfaction. It was a much needed improvement
and is most thoroughly appreciated.
During the past summer arrangements were made with
the State Board of Agriculture whereby different professors
from the University are to address farmers' institutes in
several counties of the State during the present year. They
will speak upon practical subjects that will be of special
interest to farmers, and it is hoped and expected that mutual
benefit will result. Twelve or fifteen men from our different
Faculties will engage in this work, but in such a way as not
to interfere materially with University duties. The carrying
out of the plan will be without expense to the University.
A notable event in the history of the past year at the
University which cannot fail, I think, to result in great good
to the institution, was the amalgamation of the alumni societies of the different departments into one University Alumni
Association.  The movement has met with unqualified
approval from the alumni and friends of the University in




154


DECEMBER MEETING, i897.


all parts of the country.  Already an enthusiasm that is
quite unprecedented is manifest, and the outlook is most
encouraging. A paid Secretary has been installed in quarters
provided by the University, and he is expected to give his
entire time and predominant energies to the work of the
Association. The plan contemplates among other things the
formation of local associations in different parts of the State
and country, where they do not now exist, and a continuous
attempt to keep the alumni interested in the University by a
systematic distribution among them of the journal of the
Association and the various University publications.  The
movement is certainly one of great significance, and it means
much, I am sure, to the University.
In gathering the data for this report, I have been impressed, as you doubtless have in listening to it, with the
many pressing needs of our great University. From one
point of view the conditions may seem discouraging. But
they are far from being so; for we should remember that our
necessities are a sure indication of our great prosperity.
They arise from our remarkable growth and development.
To provide for them, is not beyond the power of the people
of this great commonwealth, aided, as I am sure they will be,
by the generous efforts of our devoted alumni and friends.
That they will be fully met and that the University will continue to be in the front rank of our great institutions of learning, I most confidently predict.
In closing, I desire to bear testimony to the high ideals,
the unselfish devotion, and the unwearied enthusiasm of the
members of our instructing force. Throughout her entire
history, Michigan University has been signally fortunate in
the many learned and inspiring men that she has had upon
her faculties. No more striking illustration of the truth that
men and not buildings make a great University, can be found.
Respectfully submitted, for the President, by
HARRY B. HUTCHINS,
Acting President.




DECEMBER MEE TNG, i8g97.


155


APPENDIX A.
APPOINTMENTS, REAPPOINTMENTS, RESIGNATIONS, ETC., DUR
ING THE YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 30, I897.
April 28, 1897, President James B. Angell, LL. D., was
granted leave of absence until October i, I898, to enable
him to perform the duties of Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary from the United States to Turkey.
May 5, 1897, Professor Hutchins was appointed ActingPresident during the absence of President Angell.
Resignations:
At the meeting of May 12, 1897, the resignation of Levi T. Griffin,
A. M., Fletcher Professor of Law, was presented and accepted.
At toe meeting of June 28, 1897, the resignation of Professor Martin
L. D'Ooge, LL. D., as Dean of the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, was presented and accepted.
Leaves of absence:
At the meeting in February, 1897, Assistant Professor George W. Patterson, A. M., S. B., was granted leave of absence for the academic year,
1897-8; and the leave of absence formerly granted to Earle W. Dow, A. B.,
Instructor in History, was extended for an additional year.
At the meeting in April, I897, Tobias Diekhoff, A. B., Instructor in
German, was granted leave of absence for the academic year, 1897-8.
At the meeting of June 2, 1897, Prafessor J. N. Martin, M. D., was
granted leave of absence for the academic year, I897-8; and Clarence L.
Meader, A. B., Instructor in Latin, was granted leave of absence for the
same term.   Professor Henry C. Adams was also granted a leave of
absence for one year.
Non-resident Lecturers in the Department of Law were
appointed at the meeting of June 2, 1897, as follows:
Henry H. Swan, A. M., Admiralty.
James L. High, LL. D., Injunctions and Receivers.
Melville M. Bigelow, Ph. D., Insurance.
John B. Clayberg, LL. B., Mining Law.
Frank F. Reed, A. B., Copyright Law.
Albert H. Walker, LL. B., Patent Law.
A non-resident Lecturer in the Homceopathic Medical
College was appointed at the meeting in November, 1896, as
follows:
Oscar R. Long, M. D., Mental Diseases.




156


DECEMBER MEE TING, 1897.


Special Lecturers in the Department of Law were
appointed as follows:
At the meeting in November, I896:
Henry C. Adams, Ph. D., The Railroad Problem.
At the meeting of June 2, 1897:
Thomas L. Cooley, LL. D., Interstate Commerce.
Andrew C. McLaughlin, A. B., LL. B., Constitutional Law and Constitutional History.
Victor C. Vaughan, Ph. D., M. D., Toxicology in its Legal Relations.
Richard Hudson, A. M., Comparative Constitutional Law.
Clarence L. Meader, A. B., Roman Law.
Henry C. Adams, Ph. D., The Railroad Problem.
At the meeting of June 28, 1897:
William J. Herdman, Ph. B., M. D., Neurology, Electrology, and
Railway Injuries.
The following list comprises other appointments, reappointments, and changes of title of members of the Faculties.  The Instructors were appointed for one year, unless a
longer term is mentioned. The names of assistants and of
others appointed to positions of lower grade than Instructor
are not here included.
At the meeting in October, I896:
John T. Faig, B. M. E., Instructor in Mechanical Engineering.
Frank W. Nagler, B. S., Instructor in Electrotherapeutics.
Charles A. Rabethge, M. D., Instructor in the Gymnasium.
At the meeting in November, I896:
Horace L. Wilgus, M. S., Acting Professor of Law for one year.
Victor E. Francois, Instructor in French.
Sidney D. Townley, M. S., Instructor in Astronomy.
At the meeting in February, 1897:
Theodore C. Smith, Ph. D., Instructor in History.
At the meeting in April, 1897:
Frank H. Dixon, Ph. D., Acting Assistant Professor of Political
Economy for the year 1897-8.
Warrer W. Florer, Ph. D., Instructor in German.
Walter B. Pillsbury, Ph. D., Instructor in Psychology.
At the meeting of May 12, 1897:
The title of Acting Professor George A. Hench, Ph. D., was made to
stand Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures.




DECEMBER MIEETING, 1897.


157


At the meeting of June 2, 1897:
James G. Lynds, M. D., Acting Professor of Gynrecology for the year
I897-8.
Cyrenus G. Darling, M. D., Lecturer on Minor Surgery for the year
1897-8.
Simon M. Yutzy, M. D., Instructor in Osteology.
Aldred S. Warthin, Ph. D., M. D., Instructor in Pathology for three
years.
Frank W. Nagler, B. S., Instructor in Electrotherapeutics.
Herbert H. Waite, A. B., Instructor in Bacteriology.
The title of uJunior Professor George Hempl, Ph. D., was changed to
stand Professor of English Philology and General Linguistics.
Victor H. Lane, C. E., LL. B., Fletcher Professor of Law.
James H. Brewster, A. B., Professor of Conveyancing.
The title of Acting Professor Horace L. Wilgus, M. S., was changed
to stand Professor of Law.
The title of Assistant Professor Elias F. Johnson, B. S., LL. M., was
changed to stand Professor of Law.
Aaron V. McAlvay, A. B., LL. B., Acting Professor of Law for
1897-8.
John W. Dwyer, LL. M., Instructor in Law.
Thomas W. Hughes, LL. M., Instructor in Law.
Albert J. Farrah, LL. B., Instructor in Law.
George W. Patterson, Jr., A. M., S. B., Assistant Professor of Physics
for 1897-8; to be Junior Professor from October I, 1898.
John O. Reed, Ph. M., Assistant Professor of Physics for three years.
Alfred H. Lloyd, Ph. D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy for three
years.
Gcorge O. Higley, M. S., Instructor in General Chemistry for three
years.
David M. Lichty, M. S., Instructor in General Chemistry for three
years.
William H. Wait, Ph. D., Instructor in Greek, Latin, and Sanskrit.
James W. Glover, Ph. D., Instructor in Mathematics.
Louis A. Strauss, Ph. M., Instructor in English.
Edwin C. Goddard, Ph. B., Instructor in Mathematics.
Herbert J. Goulding, B. S., Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and
Drawing.
Victor E. Frangois, Instructor in French.
Otto E. Lessing, A. B., Instructor in German.
John R. Alien, B. S., M. E., Instructor in Mechanical Engineering.
John T. Faig, M. E., Instructor in Mechanical Engineering.
Sidney D. Townley, M. S., Instructor in Astronomy.
Edwin C. Roedder, A. M., Instructor in German.
Alfred H. White, A. B., Instructor in Chemical Technology.
Walter Dennison, A. M., Instructor in Latin.




158


DECEMBER MEE TNG, 1897.


Henry F. L. Reichle, A. MI., Instructor in Latin.
Carroll D. Jones, B. S., E. E., Instructor in Electrical Engineering.
John S. P. Tatlock, A. B., Instructor in English.
Fanny E. Langdon, B. S., Instructor in Botany.
At the meeting of June 28, 1897:
The appointment of Junior Professor George W. Patterson, Jr., A. M.;
S. B., was made to take effect from October i, I897.
The chair of the Assistant Professor ot Anatomy was discontinued.
The title of Simon M. Yutzy, M. D., was changed to stand Demonstrator of Anatomy and Instructor in Anatomy.
Perry F. Trowbridge, Ph. B., Instructor in Organic Chemistry.
Moses Gomberg, Sc. D., Instructor in Organic Chemistry.
Louis P. Hall, D. D. S., Instructor in Dental Anatomy, Operative
Technique, and Clinical Operative Dentistry.
Cyrenus G. Darling, M. D., Clinical Lecturer on Oral Pathology and
Surgery.
Charles A. Rabethge, M. D., Instructor in the Gymnasium.
George Rebec, Ph. B., Instructor in Philosophy for three years.
Frank R. Lillie, Ph. D., Instructor in Zoology for three years.
Penoyer L. Sherman, Ph. D., Instructor in General Chemistry.
Arthur Lachman, Ph. D., Instructor in General Chemistry.
Edgar E. Brandon, A. B., Instructor in French.
John E. Lautner, M. L., Instructor in German.
John B. Johnston, Ph. B., Instructor in Zoology.
Richard Hudson, A. M., Dean of the Department of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.
Alice G. Snyder, Instructor in the Women's Gymnasium.
At the meeting in September, 1897:
Wilbur C. Abbott, B. Litt., Instructor in History.
The title of Clarence G. Taylor, B. S., M. E., was changed to stand
Professor of Mechanical Practice and Superintendent of Shops.
Claudius B. Kinyon, M. D., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology
in the Homoeopathic Medical College.
Albert J. Elliott, M. D., Instructor in Pathology in the Homeeopathic
Medical College.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.                                                     159
APPENDIX B.
DEGREES CONFERRED.
The following degrees were conferred during the year
October i, 1896, to September 30, 1897:
DEGREES ON EXAMINATION.
Bachelor of Letters..................................................................                    40
Bachelor of Science (in Biology)................................................                         I4
Bachelor of Science           (in  Chemistry)..............................................                 9
Bachelor of Science (in Electrical Engineering)..............................                            20
Bachelor of Science (in Mechanical Engineering)............................                              17
Bachelor of Science (in Civil Engineering)....................................   9
Bachelor of Science (in Pharmacy)...............................................                            3
Bachelor of Science..................................................................                    16
Bachelor of Philosophy...........................................................                        51
Bachelor of Arts............................................................      62
Master of Letters..................................................................... 
Electrical Engineer.................................................................                        I
Mechanical Engineer..........................................................        I
Civil Engineer........................................................................                      2
Master of       Science...................................................................                 8
Master of Philosophy...............................................................                        7
Master of Arts....................................................7............      17
Doctor of       Science....................................................................      2
Doctor of Philosophy................................................................                        2
Doctor of Medicine (Department of Medicine and                            Surgery)..............  66
Bachelor of Laws.....................................................................                    57
Master of Laws....................................................................... 
Pharmaceutical Chemist............2.......................................            21
Doctor of Medicine (Homoeopathic Medical College).......................                                    5
Doctor of Dental Surgery........................................................                         50
49q
HONORARY DEGREES.
Master of       Pharmacy.................................................................                  I
Master of      Science...................................................................                  I
Master of      Arts........................................................................ 
Doctor of       Science...................................................................                 I
Doctor of       Laws..................................................        4
Total..........................................................................           499




160          DECEMBER MEETING, Iz897.
APPENDIX C.
SUMMARY OF STUDENTS.
DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS.
Holders of Fellowships......   2
Resident Graduates.......       74
Candidates for an Advanced Degree, enrolled in other departments.......         5
Graduates Studying in Absenia....     5
Undergraduates:
Candidates for a Degree...         996
Students not Candidates for a Degree...87-1269
DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING.
Resident Graduates.......   5
Graduates Studying in Absentia.....  3
Undergraduates.......         276-  284
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY.
Resident Graduates........   6
Fouith Year Students.......  7I
Third Year Students....             93
Second Year Students.......  138
First Year Students.....  1.40
Students enrolled in the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts:
Third Year Student in Medicine...  I
Second Year Students in Medicine..   I.
First Year Students in Medicine.       2. 
Students enrolled in the School of Pharmacy:
First Year Student in Medicine...  2
Students enrolled in the College of Dental Surgery:
Third Year Student in Medicine..    I
Second Year Students in Medicine...  2- 477
DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
Resident Graduates...... 
Third Year Students.......  51
Second Year Students.......  200
First Year Students..                   294
Special Students.......  19
Students enrolled in the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.......   9-  584
SCHOOL OF PHARMACY.
Resident Graduates........   7
Undergraduates:
Candidates for a Degree.....     63
Students not Candidates for a Degree....  2- 72




DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.             161
HOMEOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE.
Resident Graduates.......    3
Fourth Year Students.......    5
Third Year Students.......    8
Second Year Students......   10
First Year Students.......   21-  47
COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY.
Seniors..........   59
Juniors..                                   56
Freshmen........       82
Student enrolled in the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.......    I-  I98
2931
Deduct for names counted more than once.  53
Total, exclusive of Summer Schools..  2878
SUMMER SCHOOLS OF 1896.
In Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts.  199
In Department of Law......         25-224
Deduct for students enrolled in 1896-7 in some department of the University..      127- 97
SUMMER SCHOOLS OF 1897.
In Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts.  185
In Department of Law......   40-225
Deduct for students enrolled in 1896-7 in some department of the University....     102- 123
APPENDIX D.
EXAMINATIONS FOR HIGHER DEGREES.
The following examinations for higher degrees were held in 1897:
CANDIDATES FOR THE DEGREE OF DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY.
IRA DUDLEY TRAVIS, Ph.B., Albion College, 1889, Ph.M., 1894.
THESIS.-The Clayton-Bulwer Treaty: its History and Interpretatiol.
Subjects for examination: Major.-American History. Minors.-Political
Economy. European History.
MARY GILMORE WILLIAMS, A.B., I895.
THEsIs.-De Julia Domna. Subjects for examination: Major.-Latin
Minors.-Greek. Political Antiquities.




162              DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.
CANDIDATES FOR THE DEGREE OF DOCTOR OF SCIENCE.
JAMES BARKLEY POLLOCK, B.S., University of Wisconsin, 1893,
M.S., ibid., 1895.
THESIS.-Mechanism of the Traumatropic Curvature of Roots. Subjects for examination: Major.-Botany. Minors.-Experimental Vegetable
Physiology. Organic Chemistry.
SIDNEY DEAN TOWNLEY, B.S., University of Wisconsin, 1890, M.S.,
ibid., 1892.
THEsI. —Investigation of the Orbit of Asteroid No. I6 (Psyche). Subjects for examination: Major.-Practical Astronomy. Minors.-Theoretical
Astronomy. Optics.
CANDIDATES FOR THE DEGREE OF MASTER OF ARTS.
CHARLES WALLACE ADAMS, A.B., I894.
Subjects for examination: Major.-Political Economy.  Minors.American History. Constitutional Law.
ALICE BROWN, A.B., 1896.
THESIS.-The Development of the Cabinet, I789-I801. Subjects for
examination: Major.-Amelican History.  Minors.-Constitutional Law,
Political Economy.
EMMA JANE CHESNEY, A.B., Kalamazoo College, I892.
Subjects for examination: Major.-Latin.  Minors.-Roman Political
Antiquities. English Literature.
CHARLES HALL COOK, A.B., I874.
THESIS. —The Unseen World of the Great Poets. Subjects for examination: Major.-English Literature. Minors.-Ethics. Philosophy.
CHARLES HENRY COLE, A.B., 1882.
Subjects for examination: Major.-Pedagogy. Minors.-History of
Philosophy. English Literature.
CARL HERBERT COOPER, A.B., Upper Iowa University, I895.
Subjects for examination: Major.-Political Economy. Minors.-History. Sociology.
CHARLES ALBERT FARNAM, A.B, I896.
Subjects for examination: Major.-Latin. Minors.-Greek. Roman
Political Antiquities.
SAMUEL ALLEN JEFFERS, A.B., Central Wesleyan College, I892.
Subjects for examination: Major.-Latin. Minors.-Greek. Pedagogy.




DECEMBER MEE TNG, i897.


163


ELLEN ANN KENNAN, A.B., 1896.
Subjects for examination: Major.-Greek. Minors. — Latin. Greek
Archaeology.
FRANK PATTENGILL KNOWLTON, A.B., Hamilton College, I896.
Subjects for examination: Major.-Physiology. Minors.-Experimental
Morphology. Physiological Chemistry.
ANNA WILLARD LOCKE, A.B., Wellesley College, I892.
THESIS.- Bacteriological Examination of Drinking Water. Subjects
for examination: Major.-Bacteriology. Minors.-Physiological Chemistry.
Histology.
AURA MAUD MILLER, B.L., 1890.
Subjects for examination: Major.-English Literature.  Minors.English Language. Pedagogy.
ERASTUS DEVILLO PALMER, A.B., Hillsdale College, 1889.
Subjects for examination: Major.-English Literature.  Minors.European History. Pedagogy.
BESSIE BINGHAM STEVENS, A.B., 1896.
Subjects for examination: Major.-Latin. Minors.-Greek. Classical
Archaeology.
JAMES WELLINGS STURGIS, A.B., 1896.
Subjects for examination: Major.-Latin. Minors.-Roman Political
Antiquities. Greek.
LOUISE BRADFORD SWIFT, A.B., Wellesley College, I890.
Subjects for examination: Major.-Latin. Minors.-Greek. Rorman
Political Antiquities.
ELBERT WOOD, A.B., Olivet College, I888.
Subjects for examination: Major.-English Literature. Minors. —Old
English. Pedagogy.
CANDIDATES FOR THE DEGREE OF MASTER OF PHILOSOPHY.
MARY JOICE ADAMS, Ph.B., 1896.
THEsIs.-History of the Suffrage in Michigan. Subjects for examina
tion: Major.-American History. Minors. —English History. Latin.
JENNIE CLAIRE ANDERSON, Ph.B., Oberlin College, IS94.
Subjects for examination: Major.-Latin. Minors.-Roman Political
Antiquities. Pedagogy.
GEORGIANA CLEIS BLUNT, Ph.B., 1896.
Subjects for examination: Major.-American Literature. Minors.French Literature. History of Philosophy.




164


DECEMrBER M/EETING, 1897.


ELLA BOURNE, Ph.B., De Pauw University, I893.
Subjects for examination: Major.-Latin. Minors.-German. Roman
Political Antiquities.
HARRIETT ELVIRA McKINSTRY, Ph.B., iS96.
Subjects for examination: Major.-Latin. Minors.-Classical Arch-eology. Roman Political Antiquities.
LOIS AZUBAH McMAHON, Ph.B., 1896.
Subjects for examination: Major.-English Literature. Minors.-English History. Political Economy.
LURA WALLACE TOZER, Ph.B., I885.
THESIS.-Thoreau's Personality as Deduced from his Writings. Subjects for examination: Major.-American Literature. Minors.-German.
French.
CANDIDATES FOR THE DEGREE OF MASTER OF SCIENCE.
LOUIS BEGEMANN, B.S., 1889.
Subjects for examination: Major.-Sound and Light. Minors.-Pedagogy. Electricity.
EDNA DAISY DAY, B.S., 1896.
Subjects for examination: Major.-Botany.  Minors.-Embryology.
Hygieen.
CHARLES EDWARD EVERETT, B.L., 1889.
Subjects for examination: Major.-Botany. Minors.-Vegetable Physiology. Organic Chemistry.
FANNY ELIZABETH LANGDON, B.S., 1896.
Subjects for examination: Major.-Botany.  Minors.-Invertebrate
Morphology. Experimental Embryology.
WILLIAM ADAMS LEWIS, B.S., I896.
THESIS.-Internal Improvements in Michigan. Subjects for examination: Major.-American History. Minors.-Pedagogy. English Literature.
CLAYTON AMOS PETERS, B.S., I895.
THESIS.-The Embryology of Drosera.    Subjects for examination:
Major.-Botany. Minors.-Experimental Vegetable Physiology. Aninial
Embryology.
CANDIDATE FOR THE DEGREE OF MASTER OF LETTERS.
VERT)IE JANE BAKER McKEE, B.L., I893.
Subjects for examination: Major.-American Literature.  Minors.Rhetoric. Pedagogy.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


165


On motion of Regent Kiefer the report was accepted
and adopted.
On motion of Regent Fletcher it was ordered that 0o,ooo
copies of the President's report be printed in pamphlet form
for the use of the Alumni Association, and 5,000 copies for
the use of the Board, by the following vote.
Ayes-Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
Dr. Dock called the attention of the Board to the fact
that the University Hospital was overheated the most of the
time and that no provisions had been made enabling the
officers to control the temperature in the wards.     The board
instructed the engineer to give the matter his careful attention.
The following is the report of the committee of the Literary Faculty in response to the resolution of the Board of
October 2oth, asking that body to report some general plan
for getting University news before the people of the state.
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN, December I6, I897.
To the Honorable Board of Regents.
At a meeting of the Board held on October 20, 1897, a resolution was
adopted calling on the Faculty of the Literary Department to report some
general plan for getting University news before the people of the State.
The request was referred by the Literary Faculty to a special committee of
five, including the Acting President and the Dean; to which the Acting
President added on his own motion representatives of the Law and Medical
Departments. This committee have now given consideration to the subject and have agreed to present the following recommendations:
First, that some member of the Literary Faculty be appointed by
your Board to organize, under the direction of the President, a Bureau of
University News; the said appointee to be known as University Editor, and
to receive such compensation as may be commensurate with the extra labor
imposed.
Second, that with the consent and co-operation of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association, the University Editor be placed in charge
of a certain portion of the Alumni News; and that this portion of the paper
be regarded as an official publication of the University.
Third, that the University undertake to issue every other week during
the college year, a small bulletin or news-letter for distribution among the
editors of weekly papers throughout the State, the contents of the said bul



166


DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


letin to consist each week of matter which will appear the following week
in the official columns of the Alumni News. The probable cost of such a
bulletin, together with some information regarding methods in vogue in
other universities, is given in the appended memoranda.
With reference to the choice of editor, the committee will venture a
suggestion. It may be urged, and with some show of reason, that no member of the Literary Faculty ought to accept the office of University Editor,
inasmuch as it would result in a diversion of energy from the instructor's
proper field of work. Of the greater part of the members of the Faculty
this is doubtless true, but your committee would point out that there is one
department of instruction in the University to which such work as the
organization of a Bureau of News and the preparation of a news-letter may
be said properly to belong, namely, the Department, if it may be called
such, of English Composition. In certain advanced courses in this subject,
a considerable amount of work such as would be necessary in the preparation of matter for the proposed bulletin, has from time to time been undertaken by members of the class, and some of this matter has been published
as correspondence in lQcal papers. This practice could be pushed a step
farther. By reorganization of the department, a small class of advanced
students could eventually be organized to report systematically, under the
direction of the instructor, the various interests of the University. The
material thus collected could be sifted by the instructor and the best of it
edited for the bulletin. In this way the tedious labor of news gathering,
which no member of the Faculty should be asked to undertake, could be performed to some extent by members of the class as part of their regular work.
The committee cannot close their report without expressing their
sense of the importance of such a plan as is contemplated by the above
recommendation. They are of the opinion that the advantages resulting
from the awakening of interest among the editors of the State, and from
the wide distribution of facts calculated to increase the prestige and influence of the University, will repay many-fold the small cost of putting the
plan in operation; and they are confident that the plan will, if rightly carried
out, lead ultimately to the establishment of a strong and lasting bond of
union between the University and the people.
Respectfully submitted,
FREDERICK C. NEWCOMBE,
RICHARD HUDSON,
G. CARL IUBER,
E. F. JOHNSON,
V. M. SPALDING,
F. N. SCOTT,
H. B. HUTCHINS.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


167


MEMORANDA.
I. Cost of Publishing the News-letter.
The following estimate is made on the basis of 400 copies, printed on
one side only, and containing about 2, 10 words:
Cost per week.
Make-up.................................................$.20
Press-w ork..................................................  75
Paper..............................................50
400 printed envelopes.....................................   50
Folding and Mailing.......................................    75
$ 2.70
P ostage.....................................................  4.00
$ 6.70
Cost of 18 issues (I year).....................................$I20.60
Cost of 12 issues (January-June)..............................  80.40
2. Methods in Vogue in Other Universities.
In several of the western universities plans have recently been adopted,
or are at present under consideration, for arousing public interest in these
institutions by publishing at intervals authentic bulletins of university
affairs. In answer to inquiries, President Thwing, of the Western Reserve
University, writes that university news is collected and edited in the office
of the President, and thence sent out to the newspapers of the State. Chancellor MacLean, of the University of Nebraska, reports that steps are being
taken to furnish such items as may be of general interest to a newspaper
union for use upon the 'patent insides' of the country weeklies. President
Swain, of Indiana University, expresses himself as holding it " a very important matter that the public should have adequate knowledge of the
worth and workings of our colleges," and says, further, " We have encouraged our students to write to their home papers and have had a committee
of the Faculty to keep the run of college news and place it at the disposal
of these correspondents; and we occasionally have a little slip printed and
sent out to the papers of our own state. While these are not always printed,
enough of the papers publish them to make it worth while." President
Jesse, of the University of Missouri, writes that any bit of important university news is embodied in a little bulletin of a page which is mailed to the
editors of the state; he is anxious for the Trustees " to print a weekly newspaper in the University, to be edited by the Faculty, with some aid from
the students. This paper would, by exchange, be laid on the desk of every
editor in the state and would pay handsomely as a medium of advertisement."  He adds that he expects to see it established within a year.




168


DECEMBER MEETING, i897.


But of the various plans employed by the universities which have furnished information upon the subject, the one best matured and most successful
has been in operation during the present year at the University of Wisconsin.
Here the Secretary of the University Extension department collects and
edits in an attractive manner such items concerning the University as have
both educational interest and news value. This matter is then printed by a
local paper and mailed every two weeks to the editors of about 700 newspapers throughout the state. The extent to which the items of the Bulletin
are used by these editors is indicated by the statement of the Secretary:
"It is getting so that almost every issue of every newspaper in Wisconsin
contains one or more items about the University, taken from one of the
Bulletins." The printing and postage for a year's issue costs the University $200.
On motion of Regent Cocker the report was accepted,
and Professor F. N. Scott was designated University Editor
for the purpose of gathering and editing proper University
news in accordance with the general plan set forth in the
report of the committee, and $Soo was appropriated for the
purpose of inaugurating the work.
The vote on Regent Cocker's motion was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
The Treasurer presented and read his annual report,
which was on motion accepted and ordered printed in the
minutes, and also bound with the President's report.
THE TREASURER'S REPORT.
To the Finance Committee, Board of Regents, University of Michigan,
GENTLEMEN: Herewith I submit my annual report for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1897.
Respectfully,
H. SOULE, Treasurer,
RECEIPTS.
Balance in the Treasury, July 1, 1896... $ 21,793 71
From State Treasurer, Acct. of Special Appropriations.  6,000 00
t"   "      "      "    Current Expenses.   187,110 1l
"  Earnings and Miscellaneous Sources..   199,939 48
' Balance Overdrawn, June 30, 1897...    6,492 36  $421,635 73
DISBURSEMENTS.
To Special Fund Accounts.....   10,570 95
"' General Fund Accounts.,,,        411,064 78  $421,635 73




DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.            169
GENERAL FUND.
RECEIPTS TO THE GENERAL FUND.
From  Balance, July 1, 1896.....    $31,613 32
"  State Treasurer, Account of 1-6 Mill Tax..  $141,249 99,   "A  " A"       University Interest.  46,160  9
"  Interest on Bank Deposits....  5,066 19
"  Sale of Dental Supplies....  5,430 27
Miscellaneous Sources...      1,565 40
" General Library-Sale of Duplicate Books..  119 80
University Hospital....       15,176 56
"  Homeeopathic Hospital....   2,800 34  $217,508 74
From Students' Fees;
Literary Department....  $ 49,115 00
Engineering  "....   12,110 00
Medical  "....   20,822 50
Law      "....   30,090 00
Pharmacy  "....    3,592 50
Dental   "....    9,010 00
Homnceopathic "....    2,060 00
Chemical Laboratory.         12,309 19
Mechanical  "....    1,370 00
Hygienic....    2,893 03
Physiological  "....     144 00
Botanical  "....     709 00
Pathological  "....   1,235 00
Zoological  "....     571 20
Electrical Engineering Laboratory..  479 00
Electrotherapeutical  ".      960 00
Anatomical       "..   2 090 00
Histological..    1,577 00
Medical Demonstrations...  4,560 00
Gymnasium Lockers....    2,378 00
Drawing Boards....     210 00
Key Deposits.....     283 00
Pharmacological Laboratory...  70 00
Summer Schools...    6,072 50
Diplomas.....    5,100 00
Students' Fees Received, Total.  $169,810 92  $169,810 92
"   "  Refunded..   5,683 33
".  "  Net...  $164,127 59
$418,932 98
DISBURSEMENTS FROM THE GENERAL FUND.
To General Pay Roll...  $133,790 34  $133.790 34  $133,790 34
"Engineering Department, Pay Roll.  31,366 24  31,366 24
"   "... Expenses.            801 63  32,167 87
"Law Department, Pay Roll..  28,750 00  28,i50 00
~'  "  "    Books...            1,189 52
"  "((  "   Expenses..855 53             30,795 05
"Medical "  Pay Roll..   35,175 00  35,175 00
"     "  "   Books..2,436 25
"  "   "     Expenses..            530 17  38,141 42
"Pharmacy"  Pay Roll..   19,487 67  19,487 67
"     "(  "  Expenses..8,265 78         27,713 45
" Dental  "  Pay Roll..   11,500 00  11,500 00
"  "   "    Books..             40 34
"    "    "  Expenses..          4,845 08  16,385 42
"University Hospital, Pay Roll..  6,571 26  6,571 26
"   *.    "   Expenses..10,549 98         17,121 24
"Homceopathic Hospital, Pay Roll.  1,781 00  1,781 00
c"  ("      "   Expenses.           5,143 73  6,924 73
$ 268,421 51




170


DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


To University Hospital Office
Contingent Expenses
"Repairs
"Fuel and Lights
"GeneralLibrary, Books
"     "      <("   Expenses
"aAthletic Grounds
"ITennis Courtl
"Homceopathic College, Books,, "i              "    Expenses
"Materia Medica
"Postage.
" Advertising and Printing
"Museum
"Botanical Laboratory
"Histological   "
" Hygienic      " 
"Zoological     "
"Mechanical     "
Pathological   "
"Physiological "
"Physical       " 
"Anatomical     ",4 Theory and Practice Laboratory 
" Ophthalmological        (
"Electrotherapeutical      "..
Nervous Diseases
Surgical Demonstrations
' Astronomical Observatory
"Summer School
I,,        "  of Law
"Gymnasium.
"Fees Refunded
"Bindery.
"School Inspection
Insurance..
Horse and Cart
' Carpenter Shop 
Lewis Art Collection
"Women's Gymnasium
"Geology
Water Supply
"Commencement Expenses
" Latin Department
Greek      "
"Mineralogy
"Music
"Dermatology
"Oriental Languages
"Diseases of Women and Children
"General Catalogue 
"Diplomas




3,117 14
9,743 50
5,663 52
16,387 20
11,110 56
489 87
1,102 90
198 59
221 87
300 73
507 18
1,955 25
3,136 76
487 23
712 12
479 75
3,406 89
1,272 31
1,391 41
859 79
223 42
404 69
2,145 14
578 81
15 65
441 06
65 27
226 94
222 24
5,117 59
661 06
244 39
5,683 33
1,706 18
710 28
2,980 75
570 07
798 75
447 26
18,472 85
73 96
1,438 09
752 41
230 13
28 45
27 51
18 75
700
113 61
110 25
12 75
882 05
$411,064 78
7,868 20
$418,932 98


Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1897.
SPECIAL FUND ACCOUNTS.
HOMCEOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE.


Receipts.
From State Treasurer.....     6,000 00
Miscellaneous Earnings..                        30 00
Balance Overdrawn, June 30.1897....        14,860 56  $20,390 56




DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


Disbursements.
Balance Overdrawn, July 1, 1896
Salaries of Professors and Employees
Vouchers for Expenses 


171
$20,390 56


S 9,821 56
10,500 00
69 00


Reces
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1896
Disburset
Vouchers for Expenses


$  1 95  1 95


$  1 95  $  1 95


GIFTS AND TRUST FUNDS.
Under this'head are included gifts and other funds which the Regents have
received from time to timte from benefactors for special purposes, and to which
list during the the year have been added:
F. D. Bennett Scholarship Fund....   $   150 00
The Detroit Archaeological Fund...                  200 00
Library of Early Christian Literature Fund, by D. M. Ferry  265 00
James E. Scripps Library Fund...            527 90


WATERMAN GYMNASIUM.
Recetpts.
Earnings..
Disbursements.
Balance Overdrawn, July 1,1896


$  20 75  8  20 75
$  20 75  $  20 75


PHILO PARSONS FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1896
Interest...
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1897
MARY JANE PORTER FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1896
Disbursements.
Transferred to Women's Gymnasium Fund
GOETHE FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1,1896
Interest...
)isb ursements.
Vouchers.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1897


$   89 03
3 64     $
$   92 67     $


92 67
92 67


$   711 23  $  711 23
711 23  $  711 23


$ 265 68
9 53


$     64 21
211 00


ELISHA JONES CLASSICAL FELLOWSHIP.
Receipt.
lulv 1, 1896....  $


$ 275 21
$ 275 21
$ 505 77
$ 505 77


Balance in Treasury. 1


4 31


From Mrs. Elisha Jones
Interest......


Disbursements.
Vouchers..
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1897


500 00
1 46
$  500 00
5 77


Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1896...  $ 3,188 94  $ 3,188 94
Disbursements.
Transferred to Women's Gymnasium Fund..  $ 3,188 94  $ 3,188 94




172           DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.
WOMEN'S GYMNASIUM.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1,1896....  $ 1,176 29
Transfer, Mary J. Porter Fund..    711 23
"   Contingent Fund...   3,188 94
Gifts..                                639 57
Balance Overdrawn, June 30, 1897....  1,632 47  $ 7,348 50
Disbursements.
Vouchers......      $ 7,348 50  $ 7,348 50
COYL COLLECTION.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1896...  $10,416 81
Interest........       628 23  $11,045 04
Disbursements.
Vouchers......  $  275 28
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1897.    10,769 76  $11,045 04
BUHL LAW LIBRARY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1896....  $10,644 7T
Interest.....    249 91  $10,894 68
Disbursements.
Vouchers.......  $ 8,379 80
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1897....  2,514 88  $ 10,894 61
SETH HARRISON SCHOLARSHIP FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1896...  $24,992 62
Interest......   1,478 78  $26,471 40
Disbursements.
Vouchers....    $  701 50
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1897....  25,769 90  $26,471 40
CLASS OF NINETY-FOUR SCHOLARSHIP FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1896..  $ 435 81
Interest......     19 47
Gifts...        158 80  $  614 08
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1897....  $  614 08  $  614 08
FORD-MESSER FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1896...  $10,166 49
From the Administrator of the Estate of Corydon L. Ford
on Account of Bequest.....    2,000 00
Interest.......    638 13  $12,804 62
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1897...  $12,804 62  $12,804 62
THE PHILLIPS SCHOLARSHIPS FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1896....  $  46 87
From the Estate of Henry Phillips.      306 43
Interest........             356 87
Disbursements.
Vouchers.......  $  190 75
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1897....  166 12  $  356 87




DECEMBER MEETING, i897.          173
MUSIC HALL FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1896...  $ 1,001 16
Interest........    40 70  $ 1,044 86
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1897....  $ 1,044 86  $ 1,044 86
NINETY-SIX CLASS MEMORIAL.
Receipts.
Interest.......            83
Subscriptions Paid......  59 00  $  59 83
Disbursements.
Balance Overdrawn, July 1, 1896....  $  35 11
Vouchers...                    5 80
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1897....  18 92  $  59 83
PARKE-DAVIS FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1896....  $  9 25
Interest........      37  $  9 62
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1897....  9 62  $  9 62
STEARNS PHARMACY FELLOWSHIP FUND.
Receipts.
From Frederick Stearns & Co....  $  300 00
Interest.......     77  $  300 77
Disbursements.
Vouchers.......  $  300 00
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1897....  77  $  300 77
DETROIT ARCHEOLOGICAL FUND.
Receipts.
Gift.......  $  200 00  $  200 00
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1897....  200 00  $  200 00
LIBRARY OF EARLY CHRISTIAN LITERATURE.
Receipts.
Gift from D. M. Ferry.....  265 00  $  265 00
Disbursements.
Vouchers.......    238 10
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1897....  26 90  $  265 00
JAMES E. SCRIPPS LIBRARY FUND.
Receipts.
Gift........   527 90  S  527 90
Disbursements.
Vouchers.......   527 75
Balance in Treasury, June 30,1897....  15  $  527 90
F. D. BENNETT SCHOLARSHIP.
Receipts.
Gift........   150 00  $  150 00
Disbursements.
Vouchers.......   150 00  $  150 00




174           DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.
RECAPITULATION.
GIFT FUND BALANCES.
Philo Parsons Fund.                 $  92 67
Goethe                                  211 00
Elisha Jones Classical Fellowship Fund... 5 77
Coyl Collection       ".      10,769 76
Buhl Law Library                      2,514 88
Seth Harrison Scholarship...  25,769 90
The '91 Class Scholarship..    611 08
The Ford-Messer..  12,804 62
The Phillips Scholarships..    166 12
Music Hall..   1,044 86
'96 Class Memorial    ".           18 92
The Parke-Davis       ".9 62
"Frederick Stearns..      77
"Detroit Archeological  "..      200 00
"Early Christian Literature  '..   26 90
J. E. Scripps                            15  $54,250 02
Deduct for Overdrawn Balance, Women's Gymnasium.1,632 47
Total in Gift Funds.....52,617 55
APPENDICES TO TREASURER'S REPORT.
1. Contributors to the Ninety-Four Class Scholarship Fund during the year
1896-97:
E. C. Sullivan.......  $  5 00
H. 0. Chapoton......   10 00
J. R. Nelson...00
F. A. Sager...00
R. W. Newton...00
L. Brouillette.......    5 00
R. E. Jones..5 00
A. R. Crittenden......    5 00
Helen A. Rice...5 00
W. L. Whitney...5 00
F. W. Newton.......    3 00
Arthur L. Hubbard......   10 30
A. R. Crittenden......    5 00
Almira A. Prentice......    5 00
W. M. Hamilton......    5 00
C. F. Weller.......    5 00
Sara M. Riggs...                      5  0
Helen A. Rice...5 00
D. 0. Miller...5 00
Lucy E. Textor...5 00
A. J. Ladd...5 00
E. C. Woodruff.                         5 00
Annie Brouillette                        5 00
C. F. Weller...10 30
Clara Briggs......   10 20
Sarah M. Howard......    5 00
C. W. Adams...5 00
J. Q. Adams.                           5 00
$ 158 80




DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


175


2. Contributors to the Women's Gymnasium    from July, 1895, to June 30
1897.


Mrs. Henry C. Adams.......... $ 5 00
Adrian- Alumni and citizens... 232 25
A. E. I. Fraternity.............  15 00
Alpha Phi Fraternity...........    25 00
Mary I. Amidon................     1 00
Miss Anderson.................       25
Miss Anderson................      50
Hannah M. Anderson..........   1 00
Mary Anderson..................       50
Mary J. Anderson..............       50
James B Angell.............       50 00
Mrs. E. E. Armstrong, Detroit.      5 00
William Arnold.................   15 00
Marguerite Ascher..............    1 00
Clara Avery, Detroit............ 100 00
Mrs. John Avery, Detroit......      5 00
Mrs. B., Fort Wayne, Ind......     10 00
Genevieve Babcock, Kalamazoo.         50
Mrs. James L. Babcock.........    25 00
Georgia F. Bacon..............    1 00
S. H. Baer......................   2 00
Naomi A. Bailey...............       10
Bertha E. Barber.............      100
Ida  L. Barber...................    30
Frances A. Barr................      50
Miss Batchelder.................  1 00
Battle Creek, Woman's Club....     10 00
M r. Beach.......................    10
Mrs. J. E. Beal.................  25 00
Samuel Beers, Chicago, Ill.....    5 00
Dr. Emily A. Benn, Ypsilanti..      10 00
Edna Bevans....................     1 00
Big Rapids, Woman's Club......      2 00
Stella M. Boyd..................   1 00
Louise M. Breitenbach.........       25
Henry J. Brown................      5 00
Mabel M. Brown................       10
Gertrude Buck..................    2 00
Mary K. Buck, Grand Traverse.        1 00
Madge G   Bunday...............     1 00
John Burg.....................     5 00
Caledonia Society...............  86 80
E. E. Calkins...................  10 00
Mary F. Camp..................       50
Mrs. H. S. Carhart.............   10 00
Miss Cartwright................    1 00
Grace Cartwright...............       25
Mrs. Francis H. Chancy, Detroit     2 00
Charlotte, Nineteenth Century
Club..........................   5  00
Elaine Childs...................     50
Lelia M. Childs..............      1 25
Fanny E. Clark.................    1 00
Martha C. Clark................    100
Estella Cockrell............. 1 00
Collection (E. H.)...........,..   1 00
Leonora Conover...........     5 00
Anna E. Cool...................      50
Mary B. Cooley..................1 00


Mary B. Cooley (Proceeds of
Soda Water Sale)..............     55 00
Mary B. Cooley (Second Leap
Year Party).................... 178 00
Mrs. Connor...................         50
H. A. Cullom...................      3 00
S  M. Cutcheon, Detroit........      10 00
Cutting, Reyer & Co............      5 00
Delta Gamma Fraternity.......        30 00
Detroit, Hypatia Club...........  77 00
Detroit, Review Club..........       10 00
Detroit,Women'sH i s oricalClub      10 00
Don M. Dickinson, Detroit..... 200 00
Mary L. Dickinson..............  4 00
Charlotte Dilworth.............      2 00
Miss Divine.................         1 00
Mira L. Dock...................        50
M iss Dodge......................      50
Louise H. Dolly.................       50
Miss Donnelly...................     1 00
Dowagiac, Nineteenth Century
Club...........................    10 00
Fannie A. Dunn................       1 00
Miss Durkee.................       25
Eberbach &Son................        10 00
C. Eberbach....................      5  00
Gertrude A. Edwards...........          50
Fanny Elliott, Pontiac.......     1 00
William   H. Emerson, Detroit..      25 00
Mary L. Engelhard.............        1 00
Matilda L. Fairman............        1 00
Ida M. Finley...................       50
Bertha M. Fish..................      25
Dora C. Fisher..................       50
Dr. Charlotte E. Fitzgerald..        2 00
Dr. James B. Fitzgerald........       5 00
Miss Grace Fletcher, Alpena.... 100 00
Emilie A. Flintermann.........        1 00
Florence Brown Foote, Jackson         2 00
M iss  Fox........................  1  00
James J. Franc...............     2 00
Carrie E. Freudenthal..........      1 00
Friend........................       50
Friend...................       25
Friend..........................     75
Friend.........................  1 00
Friend..........................    10 00
Friend..........................      5 00
Mabel G. Frost.................      1 00
Eliza E. Fyan...................        10
Eliza Burt Gamble, Detroit.....      10 00
Minnie J. Gardner..............        50
Jessie B. Gibbes.................     1 00
Sophia Gomberg.1..............   1 00
Grace F. Goodman............         1 00
Marie L. Goodman, Kansas City,
Mo..........................        5 00
D. C. Goodspeed...............       10 00
Goodyear Drug Co.............         5 00




176


DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


W. M. Goodyear................      5 00
Grand Haven, Woman's Club...        10 00
M iss  Greiner....................    50
Asaph Hall, Jr..................    10 C0
Mr. Haller......................    5 00
Martin Haller..................     10 00
Mr. Hamilton.................          25
E. V. Hangsterfer..............     15 00
Hanna Hansen..................        50
Helen M. Hard..................     5 00
Carrie A. Hardy................     1 00
Miss Harkness..................     1 00
Mary Harned, Philadelphia, Pa.       2 00
Miss Harrington................       25
Dr. Sophia Hartley.............     5 00
Ione Haydon....................     1 00
Miss C. E. Hayes...............       10
Kate Healy......................      10
Dorcas Hedden..................      5 00
Annie Hegeler..................     1 00
George A   Hench................     5 00
F. C. Henderson, Detroit.......     5 00
William   Herz...................   5 00
George O. Higley................    5 00
Miss Hochstein..................      50
Mrs. N. S. Hoff.................    5 0
Miss Hogeboom.................      1 00
Agnes lopkins..................     1 00
Kate A. Hopper, Detroit (collections)..........................  10  00
Euretta A. Hoyles..............     1 00
Mrs. Munroe Hoyt, Kalamazoo.         5 00
Winifred Hubbell...............       25
Inlander, sales of (S. H. Richardson)........................   1  56
Inlander, sales of (Miss J.White)    6 (0
Inlander, Women's Edition..... 100 10
Inlander, Women's Edition....        6 75
Inlander, Women's Edition.....       3 25
Helen A. Irland................       50
Nettie  Ittner....................  1  00
Jackson, Mosaic Club...........     10 00
Jackson, Tuesday Club.........      10 00
Jacobs & Allmand...............    50 00
Miss Jaff...................           25
Grace W. Jennings...........       1 00
Otis C. Johnson.................    5 00
J  B. Johnston..................    5 00
Mrs. William Jones, Grand Rapids.........................   5  00
Miss Keck....................         50
Jessie Keith.....................     25
Mrs. F. W. Kelsey............       5 00
Ellen A. Kennan................     1 00
Cornelia F. Kerr................      40
Emma M. Kesting..............       1 00
Annie D. Kimlin................        25
Helen L. Kimlin................       25
Mrs. Dr. Kirkland, Kalamazoo.        2 00
Erastus Krolik, Detroit (collections)........................   55 00


Herman Krolik, Detroit........         10 00
Mrs. S. Krolik, Detroit.........       10 00
L. Lamb.....................      50
Gardner Lamson................        5 00
Mrs. G. Lamson................         100
Lansing, Woman's Club.........          7 00
Edith Lapham, Northville......         10 00
J. Laubengayer.................  5 00
Leap Year Party................ 582 80
Leap Year Party................        1 00
Miss E. M. Leighton...........         1 00
Moritz Levi.....................       5 00
David M. Lichty................        5 00
Mr. and Mrs. F. R. Lillie......       25 00
Laura A. Linton................        1 00
J. L. Littlefield, Farwell.....    1 00
Dale Livingstone................       1 00
Mabel G. Loder................          25
Mrs. W      P  Lombard (Proceeds
of entertainment)............. 177 35
Mrs. Loomis.....................       5 00
Harry K. Loud................          1 00
Almira F. Lovell...............           25
Katie E. McFadzean............           25
Beulah M. McGregor...........            50
Mack & Co......................      25 00
Dr. Donald Maclean, Detroit...        25 00
Miss Mann......................          50
Mary E. Marshall...............          50
Lida C. Martin.................        1 00
Oliver M. Martin..............       10 00
Agnes M. Mason................         1 00
Lawrence Maxwell,Cincinnati,O        100 00
C. F. Maybery, Detroit.........        2 00
May Festival (Refreshments)... 155 55
May Festival (Photographs)....          2 57
May Festival (Social).........         88 81
Medical students (Senior Wom en...........................     4  85
Mrs. C. S. Millen...............       5 00
E. F. Mills & Co................       25 00
Luther L. Mills, Chicago, Ill...     150 00
Moore & Wetmore..............         5 00
C. W. Moore, Detroit...........       25 00
Ida B. Moore....................         50
Laura Moore....................       100
William   A. Moore, Detroit....       50 00
Mrs. Motley.....................       5 00
Mount Clemens-Ladies' Literary  Club.......................    5  00
A. E. Mummery.................         2 00
Alice Nash......................          25
Mrs. Nichols.....................     10 00
Mrs. E. C. Nichols..............      5 00
Oratorical Association (Proceeds
of entertainment).............      57 92
M rs. Orton......................        50
Mrs. Thomas W. Palmer, Detroit..........................   250 00
Mrs. George W. Patterson......         20 00
Miss Pearl.......................        30




DECEMBER MEETING, i897.


177


Mary W. Peckham..............
S. F. Peckham.................
Bessie C. Peek..................
W   E. Pendleton, Detroit.......
Charlotte E. Pickett...........
Dr. Della Pierce, Kalamazoo....
Edgar Pierce...................
Political Equality Club.........
Miss Pomeroy...................
Potluck Club...................
J. W. Prentiss (Proceeds of Ball
Game).........................
Mrs. A. B. Prescott.............
Mary B. Putnam, Ypsilanti.....
H. Randall.....................
Mary L. Reid...............
Mrs. J. Reighard (Proceeds of
Passion Play Lecture).........
J. F. Rentschler................
Nellie F. Rice...................
Mrs. J. C. Rickenbaugh, Grand
Rapids........................
E. P. Rindland.........
Florence E. Ringgold.....
Mrs. J. W. Robinbon...........
John C. Rolfe..................
Bertha Root.....................
Miss Ruby....................
Ada M. Safford................
Saginaw, Reading Club.........
B. St. James....................
Adah Sanders...................
G. L. Sanders..................
Schairer & Millen..............
Roda Selleck....................
Miss Frank Gray Shaver........
Miss Shaw.......................
Sheehan & Co...................
P. L. Sherman................
George C. Shirts-collections...
Six Girls- Proceeds of play.....
Lucie A. Sill...................
S. I. Smith, Detroit............
Ivy Slayton.....................
Elliott T. Slocum, Detroit......
Sorosis..........................
Mamie C. Stegath...............
Miss Steinger..................
Mary S. Steinmetz...........
Ada Stewart....................
Louise B. Stickney..............
Marion Stickney..........
Mrs. L. H. Stone, Kalamazoocollections...................
Albert H. Stoneman............
Susan L. Stoner................
W. J. Stuart, Grand Rapids.....
Mrs. Eliza R. Sunderland......


50
05
1 00
25 CO
2 00
5 00
10 01
15 00
50
1 00
40 85
10 00
5 00
5 00
25
62 95
5 00
50
5 00
1 00
25
1 00
5 00
25
1 00
1 00
10 00
10 00
25
06
15 00
50
10 00
25
25 (0
5 00
46 40
10 25
50
100 00
50
25 00
32 50
50
25
1 00
1 00
1 00
1 00
11 00
1 00
30
2 00
10 00


Mrs. Sunderland —collections... 214 80
E. J. Swift, Detroit............     10 00
Clarence G. Taylor...........         5 00
Katharine Taylor...............        50
May E. Taylor..................        25
Ida B. Telncy..............          100
Maude Th ayer..................        50
Alice M. Thorne..............          50
Toledo Excursion-net proceeds 114 45
Traverse (ity, Woman's 'lub..        5 00
Mrs. Turner, Battle Creek......      5 00
Clara Turner..................    1 00
Lila  Turner.....................    1  00
Mrs. Mary E. Turner, Detroit..        5 00
U. of M. Daily, Woman's Edition...........................    46 31
*Upa Phi Sorority.............       1 53
Dr. J. T. Upjohn, Kalamazoo..         1 00
C. A. Van Dusen, Kalamazoo.... 100 O0
Mrs. V. C. Vaughan.............     25 00
Lillie Mae Volland..............       50
George Wahr...................      10 00
W. H. W ait.....................   5  00
Bryant Walker, Detroit.........      25 00
Minnie E. Walter..............         25
Atnes M    Warren.............       1 00
Arletta L. Warren..............        25
Louis C. Weinmann.............        5 00
Harry I. Weinstein.............       5 00
Maud A. Welllllann.............        25
Sara Whedon....................       5 00
Florence Whitcomb.............       5 00
Jennie P. White................      2 25
Miss Whitney...................      1 00
Eloise Whitney, Ypsilanti.....       1 00
Rose M    Whitney...............        25
Eva A. Wier....................         25
Nina A. Wilber................          50
Frances S. Wilcox...........       25
Horace L. Wilgus.............        5 00
M iss W illiams...................   1  00
M rs.  W illiams..................     00
Jennie. Williams................       50
Mary Williams...............    5 00
Jean W. Wilson.................      1 00
Ethel Wing..................    1 00
Ida  E. W  ing....................   1  00
Jessie H. Wing..................        00
Bertha H. Wise.................      1 0
Women's League, Talmage Lecture............................  120  00
Mrs. James C. Wood, Cleveland,  0........................   3   00
Mary Young, Danville, Ill......       1 00
Mary E. Young..................        50
Elizabeth Zahner...............         25
$5,059 61


*Rose Carnart, Beth Cooley, Margaret Cooley, Katherine Cutting, Bessie
Eggert, Gretchen Lydecker.




178


DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


On motion of Regent Dean it was voted that the expense
of maintaining the Homceopathic Department, except the
$6,ooo received by Legislature Act of I875, be charged to
the general fund.
On motion the Board took a recess until 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. M. in executive
session.
Regent Fletcher moved that $I50 be appropriated for
the purchase of pipe covering and an oil filterer for the heating plant.   It was so ordered as follows:
Ayes-Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and Farr.
Nays-None.
The President presented the following proposition from
Regent Levi L. Barbour:
Know All Men By These Presents, That I, Levi L. Barbour, of the
City of Detroit, propose to the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan that they proceed to acquire and unalterably set apart for the specific
object herein designated a fund amounting to at least One Hundred Thousand Dollars and therewith proceed to make, or cause to be made, on the
grounds of the University now owned by it, or hereafter acquired for that
purpose, at the City of Ann Arbor a building proper for and devoted to the
display and promotion of art in connection with said University.
And I further propose to said Board of Regents to contribute to the
formation of said fund a property valued at Fifteen Thousand Dollars or
more and consisting of premises in Detroit described as follows: Block
Seven (7) of Fyfe, Barbour & Warren's Subdivision of that part of Private
Claim 260 lying between Horatio Street and Warren Avenue, in the city
of Detroit and Township of Springwells, Wayne County, State of Michigan.
But this proposal is made distinctly on specific terms and subject to
given limitations, that is to say:
First.-Said Board of Regents shall within five years from the date
hereof acquire and hold for use and ready for use in making or causing to
be made the said building a sum at least Eighty-five Thousand Dollars over
and above the value of said premises.
Second. -Shall pay and discharge all taxes and assessments, ordinary




DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


179


and extraordinary, which may be charged upon or against said premises or
any part thereof after the year 1897.
Third.- Shall within six years have begun, building and expended
thereupon and out of said fund of Eighty-five Thousand Dollars a sum not
less than Twenty Thousand Dollars.
Fourth.-The said Levi L. Barbour reserves the right to enlarge at
his election the time expressed for raising said Eighty-five Thousand Dollars and the time expressed for beginning said building and expending
Twenty Thousand Dollars thereon; but no such enlargement shall be recognized unless made in writing and signed and acknowledged by him and
delivered to said Board of Regents.
Fifth.-In case the said Board of Regents shall have strictly observed
and carried out the very terms imposed on them by these presents, as well
in regard to time as to other things, then and thereupon, and on the written request of said Board of Regents, and not otherwise, the said Levi L.
Barbour will grant said premises in fee simple to said Board of Regents or
to any other one they may appoint to take said grant.
Sixth.-In token of her assent to what is proposed herein and of her
purpose to join in any grant or dedication contemplated hereby, Harriet E.
Barbour, wife of said Levi L. Barbour, doth subscribe these presents.
Seventh.-In case the terms and limitations hereof are not fully and
precisely observed and obeyed by the Board of Regents, this proposal to
donate said premises to them shall cease and have no force or obligation in
law or equity.
Eighth.-In case the said Board of Regents shall fail to be entitled to
said premises and the purpose of said Levi L. Barbour be therein disappointed, then and thereupon the said premises shall stand dedicated to public use as and for a Park or Square of the City of Detroit; provided that in
case said City shall fail for one year to accept said dedication then the offer
to dedicate here contemplated shall stand completely revoked and withdrawn.
In Witness Whereof, the said Levi L. Barbour and Harriet E. Barbour
have hereunto set their hands and seals this I3th day of December, A. D.,
I897.
In presence of                    LEVI L. BARBOUR. [L. S.]
DWIGHT C. REXFORD.            HARRIET E. BARBOUR. [L. S.]
GEORGE A. FIl'LD.
STATE OF MICHIGAN, S
COUNTY OF WAYNE. 
On this the i3th day of December, in the year one thousand eight
hundred and ninety-seven, before me, a Notary Public in and for said
County, personally appeared Levi L. Barbour and Harriet E. Barbour, his




180


DECEMBER MEETING, r897.


wife, to me known to be the same persons described in and who executed
the within instrument, who each acknowledged the same to be their free
act and deed, and executed for the purpose therein stated.
DWIGHT C. REXFORD,
Notary Public,
Wayne County, Michigan.
Regent Farr submitted the following resolutions which
were adopted by the full vote of the Board.
WHEREAS, the Hon. Levi L. Barbour and Mrs. Harriet E. Barbour,
of Detroit, Michigan, by indenture made, executed, and delivered on the
I3th day of December, I897, have proposed to donate to the Board of Regents, for the purpose of aiding in the erection of an Art Building on the
University grounds in the City of Ann Arbor, subject to the conditions set
forth, the following described lands, to-wit: Block seven (7) of Fyfe, Barbour & Warren's subdivision of Private Claim two hundred and sixty (260),
lying between Horatio and Warren Avenues in the City of Detroit,
Now, therefore, it is resolved that said proposition be accepted, and
that the President and Secretary are hereby directed to sign, execute, and
acknowledge an acceptance of said proposition, in the same manner as
signed, executed, and acknowledged by said donors, and in the name of
this Board.
And be it further resolved, That the said proposal, when so signed,
executed, and acknowledged, be made a part of the records of this Board.
And be it further resolved, That the thanks of this Board be and are
hereby extended to Mr. and Mrs. Barbour for their generous proposal, and
we trust that the future will demonstrate our ability to make it effective in
the erection of a building that will not only be an ornament to the University, but that will stand as a lasting monument to the noble friendship of
Mr. and Mrs. Barbour.
Resolved further, That copies under the seal of the University be
made and forwarded by the Secretary to Mr. and Mrs. Barbour.
[MEMORANDUM:-In accordance with the foregoing
resolution the President and Secretary subsequently executed
an acceptance, of which the following is a copy:
Know all men by these presents that the Board of Regents of the
University of Michigan do hereby accept the proposal contained in the annexed document executed and acknowledged by Levi L. Barbour and Harriet E. Barbour, this acceptance being made in behalf of said Board and
executed and acknowledged by the President (Acting) of the University and




DECEMBER MEE 7ING, 1897.


181


the Secreta.y of said Board, by virtue of a resolution of said Board adopted
December 22, 1897.
In witness whereof, the said Board of Regents of the University of
Michigan have caused the corporate seal of the University to be affixed
hereto and these presents to be executed and acknowledged by the President (Acting) of the University and the Secretary of said Board this 25th.day of January, 1898.
HARRY B. HUTCHINS,
[SEAL]                                    Acting President.
JAMES H. WADE,
In presence of                                       Secretary.
JOSEPH H. VANCE.
GEO. D. WILLCOX.
On this 25th day of January, 1898, before me personally appeared
Harry B. Hutchins, known to me to be the President (Acting) of the University of Michigan, and James H. Wade, known to me to be the Secretary
-of the Board of Regents of said University, and they severally acknowledged the execution of the foregoing instrument of writing to be the free
-act and deed of the said Board of Regents. And I further certify that I
know the seal affixod to said instrument to be the corporate seal of the said
University.                          JOSEPH H. VANCE,
Notary Public,
Washtenaw County, Michigan.]
Professor Pettee, who was appointed to audit the ac*counts of the Treasurer and Secretary, presented and read
his report, which was on motion, accepted and placed on
file.
Regent Dean presented the following communication
from the Librarian:
ANN ARBOR, December I5, I898.
To PRESIDENT HUTCHINS:
DEXR SIR:-In the year I894, through the generosity of a gentleman
who withheld his name, the Library became possessed of a copy of
Description de l'Egypte, on recueil des observations et des recherches
qui ont ete faites en Egypte pendant l'exp6dition de l'armee francaise.
Deuxieme edition. Paris: Panckoucke; I820-I830. 24 tom. in 26 vol. in
8vo, et II vol. in fol. des planches.
This work is, as its title indicates, the report of the corps of scientific
men that accompanied the French expedition under Napoleon to Egypt in
-1798. In the early days of the campaign these men were subjects of cen



182


DECEMBER MEETING, 1897.


sure and ridicule on the part of the rank and file of the army and were
classed with the asses that carried the baggage. The command, " Asses
and savants to the rear," given when a battle was imminent, has become
proverbial. Notwithstanding this, the report of these men was the most
substantial fruit of the expedition. The text is full of information and the
plates are remarkable both for their fidelity and for their execution.
The work is dedicated to the King, Louis XVIII, and while there is a
brief reference to Napoleon in the long Preface historique he is not once
named. It is the irony of fate.
The University authorities are now permitted to make known the
name of the gentlemen who made this magnificent gift to the Library-the
Honorable Orlando M. Barnes, of Lansing, of the class of I850.
I communicate these facts to you for the information of the Board of
Regents at their meeting soon to occur.
Very respectfully,
RAYMOND C. DAVIS,
Librarian.
On motion of Regent Dean, the President was requested
to convey to the Hon. Orlando M. Barnes the grateful acknowledgments of the Board for this magnificent gift to the
Library.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the Degree of Doctor of
Dental Surgery was conferred upon Clare George Bates,
Clark Warner Hill, and Byron Linzie Kesler, in accordance
with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department
of Dental Surgery.
The Hospital committee of the Department of Medicine
and Surgery certified that the following persons had complied with all the requirements in the Training School for
Nurses, and were recommended for the proper certificaie of
graduation:.
Miss Beatrice Reynvaan,
Miss Florence E. Davenport,
Miss Estelle M. Holcomb.
On motion the President and Secretary were authorized
to issue the proper certificate and attach the seal of the Uni
versity thereto.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the Degree of Doctor o(




DECEMBER MEETING, i897.


183


Philosophy was conferred upon George Rebec, as recommended by the Faculty of the Department of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the Professor of Botany
was authorized to employ Julia W. Snow, Ph. D., and Hamilton G. Timberlake, A. B., during the illness of the instructor, Miss Langdon, the aggregate amount to be paid them not
to exceed the salary of Miss Langdon for the same time of
service.
A communication from Professors Russell, Hall, Cushny,
and others, asking the Board to appoint a Photographer to
make lantern slides for class room work, was laid on the
table.
On motion of Regent Cook, C. A. Rabethge, M. D.,
was appointed Instructor in Dermatology in the Homoeopathic Department without salary.
Regent Cocker presented and read the following communication from the Director of the Zoological Laboratory:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., December 22, I897.
To THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
GENTLEMEN: —You are requested to appoint Mr. H. H. Parke to be
Assistant in the Museum for one year, without salary, in place of Mr. W. E.
Praeger, resigned.
You are further requested to authorize the employment by the Director of the Zoological Laboratory of a preparator, said preparator to have
the use of the Laboratory facilities, upon payment of a fee covering the
cost of materials consumed.
Such preparator will be employed by various members of the laboratory staff, to do for them the routine mechanical work of making anatomcal and microscopical preparations and will be paid by them privately for
such work. The preparator will thus do the work of a private assistant to
members of the staff, but will at the same time be available for employment by other persons and will make preparations for sale.
Respectfully,
JACOB REIGHARD.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Henry Hall Parke was
appointed Assistant in the Museum for one year without




184           DECEMBER MEETING, i897.
salary, and the Director of the Zoological Laboratory was
authorized to appoint a preparator upon the conditions named
in the foregoing communication.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Board adjourned to
Wednesday, January 26, at IO o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




JANUARY MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBO()R, January 26, I898. 
The Board assembled in the room of the President at Io
o'clock A. M.
Present —Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher,
Butterfield, Farr, and Lawton.
Absent-None.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Dean, approved and ordered
printed, after being made to conform to the following resolution submitted by Regent Farr, and passed by the full vote of
the Board:
Resolved, That the Resolution passed at the last meeting of the
Board, naming the Woman's Gymnasium and the Assembly Hall in the same
building, be reconsidered, and all matters relating to the said resolution be
expunged from the records of that meeting.
On motion, Regents Cocker, Cook, and Farr were appointed to make a recast of the standing committees of the
Board.
Regent Fletcher moved that in view of the generosity of
Ex-Regent Barbour in giving property valued at $25,000 to
aid in the erection of the Woman's Building on the campus,
that hereafter the building be known as the Barbour Gymnasium.
The motion was carried by the full vote of the Board.
Regent.Cocker submitted the following report of the
committee appointed to make a recast of the standing committees, which was adopted:




186


JANUARY MEETING, i898.


EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
The President, Regents Butterfield, Cook, and Cocker.
FINANCE COMMITTEE.
Regents Cocker, Kiefer, Farr, and Dean.
COMMITTEE ON IITERARY DEPARTMENT ANID ATHLETICS.
Regents Butterfield, Cocker, and Lawton.
COMMITTEE ON ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.
Regents Dean, Lawton, and Kiefer.
COMMITTEE ON MEDICAL, DENTAL, AND PHARMACEUTICAL DEPARTMENTS.
Regents Kiefer, Farr, and Butterfield.
COMMITTEE ON LAW DEPARTMENT.
Regents Farr, Butterfield, and Cook.
COMMITTEE ON HOMOEOPATHIC COL,LEGE.
Regents Cook, Fletcher, and Dean.
COMMITTEE ON LIBRARY AND MUSEUM.
Regents Lawton, Dean, and Fletcher.
COMMITTEE ON BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS.
Regents Fletcher, Cook, and Cocker.
Sundry papers which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the Board
for consideration.
Regent Cocker presented and read the following communication from Professor I. N. Demmon:
ANN ARBOR, Mich., Jan. 25, I898.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regenlts.
I have pleasure in announcing that the Hon. James McMillan has further enriched the Shakespeare Library bearing his name by sending us
thirty pounds sterling for the purchase of duplicates offered by the Shakespeare Memorial Library of Birmingham, England. This will add one
hundred and fifty-two rare books and pamphlets to this library.
Respectfully submitted,         ISAAC N. DEMMON.
On motion of Regent Cocker the President was requested
to extend the thanks of the Board to the Hon. James McMillan for his valuable contribution to the Shakespeare library.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was directed
to make contract with Mr. C. H. Kittredge to wire the dormatory buildings at a cost of $175, by the following vote:




JANUARY AMEETING, 1898.


187


Ayes-Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher,
Farr, and Lawton.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the question of establishlishing military instruction in the University was referred to
Regents Dean, Farr, and Lawton for consideration, and to
report their conclusions to some future meeting of the Board.
Regent Fletcher read the monthly report of the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds, which was accepted and
filed with Chairman of the Building Committee.
On motion of Regent Fletcher it was ordered that the
sewer of the Law Building be connected with the city sewer
on North University Avenue.
Professor Stanley asked for and obtained permission to
start for Europe immediately on the close of his University
work, instead of remaining here for the exercises of commencement week.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Mrs. Jessie Ruby McNeal,
B. S., M. D., was appointed Assistant to Doctor Dock in place
of Doctor Watkins resigned.
Regent Kiefer moved that Theodore Klingmon, M. D.,
be appointed Assistant in Pathology for the Asylums of the
State, salary to be paid by the Asylum Boards. And that the
Secretary be authorized to fit up a room in the Pathological
Laboratory for his use and supply him with what ever may be
necessary to carry on this work. A call vote resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher,
Farr, and Lawton.
Nays-None.
The Medical Faculty asked the Board to authorize the
Superintendent of the Hospital to exclude from the Hospital
all persons who are abundantly able to pay for medical service.
Action on this request was deferred until the next meeting of
the Board.
Regent Kiefer read a letter from Mr. Densmore Cramer




188


JANUARY MEETING, i898.


in relation to Hospital matters, which was on motion laid on
the table.
A request of the Fruit and Flower Mission asking the use
of the Men and Women's Gymnasium for the purpose of giving a social, was referred to the President with power.
Regent Kiefer moved that Lawrance Bigelow, Ph. D., be
appointed Instructor in General Chemistry for one year at a
salary of $900. Service to begin October Ist, I898.  The
motion was carried by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Cook it was voted that the formal
appointment of a Superintendent for the Homeopathic Hospital be made at the next meeting of the Board.
Regent Fletcher stated that as the whole time of Mr.
Burdick, the instrument maker, would now be required on the
Electric Lighting, plant, he moved that another man be employed as instrument maker at $i.50 per day.  It was so
ordered by the full vote of the Board.
The Board then took a recess until 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock P. M.
Dr. Carrow presented to the Board an oil portrait of the
late Joseph Clark who had been the faithful Superintendent of
University Hospital for many years, he asked the Board to
accept it as the gift from Mrs. Clark and Son, and that permission be given to hang it in University Hospital.
On motion of Regent Kiefer the picture was accepted
with permission to hang the same in University Hospital. The
thanks of the Board was tendered Mrs. Clark and Son.
Regent Cocker moved that a filing case for the Secretary's
office be purchased at a cost not to exceed $ioo, and a cataloguing case for the Alumni Association at a cost of $25. A
call vote resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher, Farr,
and Lawton.
Nays-None.




JA NUA Y MEE TING, 1898.


189


Professor D. C. Worcester asked for and obtained leave of
absence for the next college year to go abroad for study, his
salary to lapse during his absence.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Professor Pettee was allowed
$1oo for auditing the accounts of the Treasurer and Secretary
for the year ending June 30, I897, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher, Farr
and Lawton.
Nays-None.
Regent Lawton moved that the sum of $222 be expended
for additional cases in the Museum, the amount to be taken
from the budget fund of that department. The vote was as
follows:
Ayes-Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher,
Farr, and Lawton.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the President was requested
to write Mr. John Canfield, of Manistee, who had pledged
$5,ooo to aid in the erection of the Woman's building, that if
it was convenient for him to send his check now the Board
would add to his gift, from the general fund, the amount
necessary to complete the building.
The Board then took up the consideration of plans for an
addition to the law building, but without reaching a conclusion the matter was deferred until the next meeting of the
Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher it was ordered that a book
be kept in the Secretary's office in which shall be entered all
requests for changes or extensions of the electric lighting or
power circuits, and no changes shall be made until the same
has been approved by the Auditing Board.
Regent Fletcher moved that $500 be allowed Professor
Carhart and $oo00 to Professor Cooley, for services rendered
in installing the Electric Lighting plant. It was so ordered
by the following vote:




190


JANUARY MEETING, 1898.


Ayes-Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher,
Farr, and Lawton.
Nays —None.
On motion of Regent Dean the Auditing Board was
requested to repair the locks in the Museum.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Junior Hop Committee were given permission to wire the Waterman Gymnasium
for electrical decoration without cost to the University, except
the power to run the same, the work to be done under the
direction of the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds.
Regent Farr submitted the following resolution, action
on which was deferred until the next meeting:
Resolved, That patients shall be admitted to the Hospitals without
reference to their pecuniary circumstances, and in the order of their application. Should several applications be made at the same time, and there
shall not be room for all, then preference shall be given to those least able
to bear the expense of a private operation.
The Board adjourned to February I7th, I898.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




FEBRUARY MEETING.
UNI VERSITY OF \MICHIGAN,  a
ANN AR(BOR, Felruary I8, I898. 
The Board assembled in the roum of the President at 10
o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher,
Farr, and Lawton.
Absent, Regent Butterfield.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Cook, approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry papers which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of the appropriate committees of the
Board for consideration.
The President read a communication from the Law Faculty, relating to the enlargment and alteration of the Law
Building, and favoring the plans submitted by Spier and
Rohn, Architects, of Detroit.
On motion of Regent Farr the plans presented by Spier
and Rohn were adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean Kiefer, Farr, and Lawton.
Nays-None.
Regent Fletcher not voting.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was directed
to pay John Scott $Ioo on account of plans for the Dormitory
Building by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Professor Stanley was
allowed to use $50 for the rent of a piano, the same to be
charged to the budget fund of the Department of Music.




194


FEBR'UAR Y MIEETI 7IAG, z898.


The President presented and read a communication from
Professor M. E. Cooley, asking the board to consider the
advisability of establishing at some time in the future instruction in Marine Engineering and Naval Architective.
Regent Cocker presented and read the following cominunication from the Professor of Botany:
Ann Arbor, Mich., February i6, I898.
To THE HONORABLE BOAR1) OF REGENTS:
GENTLEMEN: --- have the pleasure of informing you that Mr. D. M.
Ferry of Detroit has provided a means for a fellowship in botany in this
university for the present academic year. 1 therefore recommend the
acceptance of his generous gift and the appointment of Julia W. Snow,
PH.D., to the fellowship.
Very respectfully,
V. M. SPALDING.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Julia W. Snow, PH.D., was
appointed to the Ferry Fellowship in Botany. And the President was requested to transmit the thanks of the Board to
the Hon. D. M. Ferry for his generosity in providing for a
fellowship in botany for the present year.
A communication was received from Dr. E. M. Mosher
relating to chairs for the Assembly Hall in the women's building, which was laid on the table.
Professor G. W. Patterson asked for and obtained leave
of absence for the academic year of 1898-9 for the purpose of
going abroad for study, his salary to lapse during his absence.
Regent Lawton presented and read the following communication from Professor I. N. Demmon:
Ann Arbor, February, I8, I898.
To THE HONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS:
I have pleasure in announcing that I have received from Hon. I). M.
Ferry the sum of seventy dollars for the purchase of nineteen rare volumes of
Leigh Hunt's works, for the General Iibrary.
Respectfully submitted,
ISAAC N. DEMMON.
On motion of Regent Lawton the President was asked to
convey the cordial thanks of the Board to the Hon. 1). M.
Ferry for valuable gifts to the General Library.




FEBRUAR Y AIEETIA 7G, i 8        1oS.


1 jo3


Regent Lawton    read a communication 'from      Professor
Reighard, asking the appointment of Mr. Sargent as Curator
of the Museum, which was referred to the Finance Committee
to be considered with the budget.
Regent Kiefer read the following cormmunication from
Dr. N. S. Hoff, and the leave of absence asked for was granted.
ANN ARBOR, February I8th, I898.
To THE HONORABLE BOARD of REGENTS:
I1 have been invited by the President of the, National Association of
Dental Faculties, to serve on a committee which is to visit the Western and
Pacific Coast Dental Colleges, which will require an absence from my work
of three weeks. In view of your possible consent I have made satisfactory
arrangements with my associates on the Dental Faculty for carryihg on
my work during this absence.
As the object of the National Association of Dental Faculties is to
strengthen and maintain higher standards of professional education in
Dentistry, I deem it an honor as well as a duty to represent the University
of Michigan on this committee, and respectfully ask that y0u grant me the
required leave of absence. Very respectfully,    N. S. IHOFF,
Professor of Dental Materia Medica andl Dental Mechanism.
On motion of Regent Kiefer the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery was conferred upon James Curtis Snook and Daniel
Templar, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Dental Surgery.
Dr. Freer asked, for an appropriation of $54 to construct
a room in the basement of the Chemical Laboratory for spectroscopic work.   The request was referred to the Finance
Committee for consideration with the budget.
Regent Kiefer presented the request of the Medical Faculty that the Board grant four additional nurses for the University Hospital. The request was referred to the Finance Conlmittee.
Regent Kiefer presented the request of Mr. G. G. Crozier
to be relieved from the payment of the annual fee this year, his
work being all complete except one subject which he failed to
pass, and a condition    in one other subject. The Board
declined to grant the request.




196


FBFER UAR Y MEETING, i898.


On   motion of Regent Kiefer the Board took a recess
until 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock P. M.
Regent Farr's resolution -introduced at the last meeting,
relating  to the admission of patients to the Hospitals, was
then taken up for consideration.
Regent Kiefer offered the following substitute for Regent
Farr's resolution:
Resolved, That patients being of no interest for the instruction of
students at the time of application,:may be refused admission to the clinics
or to the wards by the Hospitals corps, or by the Professor having charge of
the respective disease. Emergency cases must be admitted at any time.
All patients admitted to the clinics or wards must submit to the examination in the presence of the students, and by them whenever required by
the Hospital corps.
Article 29 of the rules of 1883 is hereby repealed.
Regent Fletcher offered the following amendment:
Resolved, That if, in the opinion of the Hospital Committee, a patient
is able to pay for medical services, then a moderate payment should be
required, and the same shall be turned into the Hospital funds of the
University.
Regent Fletcher's amendment was lost by the following
vote:
Ayes-Regents Fletcher and Lawton.
Nays —Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, and Farr.
The vote on the substitute offered by Regent Kiefer
was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Kiefer, Dean, and Cook.
Nays ---Regents Cocker, Fletcher, Farr, and Lawton.
A call vote was then taken on the original resolution
submitted by Regent Farr, with the following result:
Ayes-Regents Farr, Dean, and Cook.
Nays-Regents Cocker, Kiefer, Fletcher, and Lawton.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1898.


197


On motion of Regent Dean, the whole subject was laid
on the table.
Regent Fletcher moved that the acceptance of the plans
submitted by Spier'and Rohn be conditioned on the Board's
being able to let a contract for the work at the stipulated sum,
viz., $5o,ooo, or less, and that the Secretary be directed to
make contract with the said architects on the conditions named
above, allowing a commission of four per cent. on the contract
price of said work, which commission shall be full compensation for the plans, specifications, and detail drawings, and also
careful supervision during the progress of the work. As soon
as the plans are completed, the Secretary shall advertise for
bids, and present the same to the Board at the next meeting.
It was so ordered by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Supertenindent of
Buildings and Grounds was authorized to purchase a pair of
trucks for moving trees on the campus, by the full vote of the
Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the secretary was authorized to purchase two phones to operate a short line between the
two heating plants.
On motion of Regent Farr the degree of Bachelor of
Laws was conferred upon Neville Charles Fisher, and Lewis
Allen Nuckols, in accordance with recommendations of the
Faculty of the Department of Law.
Regent Cocker read a communication from Professors
Wenley, D'Ooge, Kelsey, and Denison, asking the appointment of an Assistant Professor of Fine Arts, which was referred
to the Finance Committee.
Regent Cocker presented a communication from Professor Reighard in relation to additional room, which was on
motion laid on the table.
Dr. E. M. Mosher presented a bill of $35 for the rent of
a piano which was on motion of Regent Fletcher ordered
paid, and charged to the budget fund of the Women's Gymnasium.




198


FEBRUARY MEE~TING, 8098.


On motion of Regent Dean the appointment of a Mechanician for repairing instruments and apparatus was deferred
until the next meeting.
On motion of Regent Kiefer the action of Dr. Carrow in
refusing to operate on Mr. Densmore Cramer's eyes was
approved under section 2 of article 29 of the Hospital rules
of 1883.
On motion of Regent Farr the President was authorized
to extend an invitation to the Farmers' Institute to be held at
the Agricultural College February 25, to hold their final institute next year at the University.
Regent Dean, chairman of the special committee to whom
was referred the question of establishing military drill in the
University, reported adversely. The report was adopted.
On motion the Board adjourned to March i6th at io
o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRE ETAR Y.




MARCH MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF M/ICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, March I8, I898. i
The Board assembled in the room of the President at io
o'clock A. M.
Present —Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield,
Fletcher, Farr, and Lawton.
Absent-None.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Kiefer, approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry papers which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Board went into
executive session to consider the bids for the erection and
completion of an addition to the Law Building. The following bids were received:
CHARLES A. SAUER, ANN ARBOR.
For the work according to plans and specifications- ----— _$56,700
Additional cost of fire proof flooring in Library --- —  --- 2,445
Additional cost for grooving stone ashier. --- ----—.  ---  1,700
Additional cost for extending porch --- —-. —  ----- -   3,200
Additional cost of adamant instead of plaster --... --- —$64,045
KOCH BROS., ANN ARBOR.
Accoording to plans and specifications- ---- - --- -— $52,32
Additional cost of fire proof flooring --- —-- - -       2,c
Additional cost of grooving stone ashler ----  -- _
Additional cost of extending porch-.. —.
Additional cost of adamant ---- ---—, ---



202                  MARCH MEEATING, i898.
SPITZLEY BROS., I)ETROIT.
According to plans and specifications ------ _$. ----50,869
Additional cost of fire proof flooring ----  ------—. --- —----  2,000
Additional cost of grooving stone ashler. --- --- —,             500
Additional cost of extending porch -- ---- --  --     -        1,392
Additional cost of adamant_ ---. ----                      --      600
$55,36I
WILLIAM S. PIGGINS, DETROIT.
According to plans and specifications-_ -       ---   ---      51,86I
Additional cost of fire proof flooring ---- -.. -- -. i. __,600
Additional cost of grooving stone ashler_ ------.-_       1,400
Additional cost of adamant — _ --- — _- —._ —. --                oo
Additional cost of extending porch ---- _-         ---           1,200
$56,86i
SAMUEL PICKLES, JACKSON.
According to.plans and specifications —_ __             --    $51,900
Additional cost of fire-proof flooring -...- —.... _   _     2,045
Additional cost of grooving stone ashler. --  ----------— _-    1,500
Additional cost of extending porch  ----—. —      --   __      2,354
Additional cost of adamant'- ---- --  ---- _
$57,799
F. A. ORTMAN, DETROIT.
According to plans and specifications  -------   _   — ___$51,4I7
Additional cost of fire proof flooring.. ---- _ ---. ---. __,, —  2,000
Additional cost of grooving stone ashler- - --  --—..  _  _    700
Additional cost of extending porch__ — --      - -        _ __  1,200
Additional cost of adamant-  _ -- ---  — _  -..__ __.___     800
$56, I7
HENRY CAREW & CO., DETROIT.
According to plans and specifications ---.      ~$. -,  ___  38,570
Additional cost of fire proof flooring —... — -—... ----.....  1,667
Additional cost of grooving stone ashler-....  -.  _.          500
Additional cost of extending porch-_.. ----      - __ -          I,250
Additional cost of adamant --- — — _                       ___    605
$42,592
Regent Fletcher moved that the bid for extending the
porch be stricken out and the contract be awarded to Henry




MARCHI MEETrING, 1898.


203


Carew & Co. for the sum of $41,342 upon their giving two indemnity bonds, and executing a satisfactory contract, and that the
President and Secretary be authorized to sign said contract in
the name of the Board.      Regent Fletcher's motion was carried by the unanimous vote of the Board.
The President presented and read the following preamble
and resolution passed by the University Senate, which was on
motion adopted by the Board.
WHEREAS, The Regents and Faculties of the University of Michigan
have learned with great interest of the proposal to celebrate the Millenary
of King Alfred The Great by the Government, the Universities, and Learned
Societies of Great Britain; and
WHEREAS, A preliminary meeting is to be called at the Mansion
House in London for the purpose of inaugurating plans for this celebration,
therefore
Resolved, That Professor; Charles M. Gayley, an Alumnus of this
University and a former member of its Faculty in the Arts, be requested
to present to the meeting at the Mansion House the desire of the University
of Michigan to be permitted to second in every possible way this proposed
celebration, for the purpose of joining with our kinsmen across the sea in
doing honor to the memory of a Sovereign who is characterized by one of
England's greatest historians as "a Saint without Superstition, a scholar
without ostentation, a conqueror whose hands were never stained withb...cruelty;" and with the hope that through this commemoration in which all who
are of Anglo Saxon lineage may proudly claini a share, mutual relations of
friendship and good will between England2aiiid America may be more firmly
established.
Signature of President. Seal of University.
The President presented     and read the following Communication.
MICHIGAN NATIONAL GUARDS.       )
ARMORY, COMPANY A, IST INFANTRY,
ANN ARBOR, FEBRUARY 1;7, I898. )
To the Honorable Board of Regents, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
DEAR SIRS:-An inspection, reception and ball will be given Monday
evening, April I th, in honor of Governor Hazen S. Pingiee and Staff, by
the Ann Arbor Light Infantry, Co. A, Ist Infantry, Michigan National
Guard. The honor of the presence of yourselves and ladies is sincerely
requested.        Respectfully, Company A, Ann Arbor,
Ross GRANGER, Captain Commanding.




204


AIARCH MEETING, 1898.


On motion of Regent Fletcher the invitation was accepted
and Regent Dean was requested to represent the Board at the
Reception.
On motion of Regent Dean the President was requested
to transmit the thanks of the Board to the Nathan Manufacturing Co., of New York, for a Locomotive Monitor Injector
presented to the Engineering Shops.
Prof. W. P. Lombard asked permission to complete his
work by June 8th to enable him to go abroad for study during
the summer. On motion of Regent Kiefer the request was
granted.
The request of the Medical Faculty that four more nurses
be added to the Training School for Nurses in the University
Hospital was referred to the Finance Committee.
Regent Kiefer presented the request of the Director of
the Chemical Laboratory asking the'Board to establish the
degree of Master of Science in Pharmacy. The matter was
referred to the President for consideration.
Regent Cook presented the request of the Homceopathic
Faculty for the necessary apparatus to enable them to conduct
experiments by means of the X rays, and also for additional
nurses in the Training School. The request was referred to
the Finance Committee.
On motion of Regent Lawton the budget fund for the
purchase of books was divided among the Departments, as
follows:
For the General Library_ — -- --               $10,750 00
For the Medical Library-.. --- — - -  ----     -  1,500 00
For the Law Library --- —.-.. _  _ _  _ -—. --- —  2,250 00
For the Dental Library --- —-- ----- -             250 oo
For the Homceopathic Library ------  ---  -----   250 oo
$1 5,000 oo
The Professor of Geology asked the Board to purchase
some polished sections of the Tree Fern belonging to Mr.
Rominger, and now in the Museum. The matter was referred
to the Finance Committee.




MARCH MEETING, 1898.


205


The Director of the Zoological Museum asked permission
to remove three cases from the Museum, which he said were
not needed there. The request was laid on the table until
the next meeting.
Regent Fletcher submitted a proposition from the New
State Telephone Company, offering to furnish eight phones
for the use of the University at an annual rental of $Ioo for
the lot, and every additional phone at $12 per year. The
proposition was accepted by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Auditing Board were
authorized to purchase one voltrmeter, one ainperemeter, and
one testing apparatus for the Electric Lighting plant by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Fletcher,
Farr, and Lawton.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Superintendent of
Buildings was directed to make such changes as may be
necessary to connect the two Hospitals with the Lighting
plant.
On motion the Board took a recess until 2 o'clock p. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
Regent Cocker presented the request of Dr. E. M. Mosher
for the purchase of a piano for the Women's building. The
matter was referred to the Finance Committee.
Regent Cocker presented and read a communication from
Thomas Wellman, of Port Huron, in relation to the exemption of his daughter from the payment of fees for the present
year. The request was referred to the Finance Committee
for consideration.
Professor Newconibe asked the Board to allow the purchase of a meter for use in the Botanical Laboratory. This
request was referred to the Finance Committee to be considered with the Budget.




2D06. AL4RCH C  1/A' 7'/ING, 89,8.


On motion of; Regent Butterfield Professor D. C. \Worcester -was granted leave of absence for the next academic
year, t.o, go abroad for the p.urpose of study,.his salary to lapse
during his absence.
The request'of the'.Botanical DeIpartment for an appropriation of $30 for labels for the. Botanical Garden and $82
for case in the Botanical Laboratory was denied.
Oni motion of Regent Butterfield the leave of absence
granted Instructor. )iekhoff for 1897-8 was extended to cover
the academic year of 1898-9.
On motion of Regent. Butterfield it was voted to print an
edition of 7,000 copies of the Graduate School Announcement.
Regent Butterfield   presented  and read the    following
communication from    the University Senate, and the recommendation therein contained was adopted by the Board:
ANN ARBOR, March 1o, I198.
TO THE, HONORABLE, THE. BOARD (F REGENT'S:
GENTLEMEN- At a meeting of tlhe University Senate held on the 7th
inst., it was voted to be the sense of the Senate that it would be desirable to
have the IHolidav Vacation begin on the Thursday evening next previous to
Christmas Day, when Christmas falls on Sunday or on Monday, instead of
on Friday evening as provided by the by-law now in force; and it was voted
that the Board of RIegents be respectfully petitioned to provide for the change
proposed.
Very respectfully submitted,
V. H. PETTEE,
Secretary of the University Senate.
Regent Cocker submlitted the following resolution' which
was adopted:
Resolved, lThat the south-west room in the second story of the Waterman Gymnasium originally intended for a trophy room, be set aside for this
purpose and for the use of the Athletic Association.
Regent Fletcher stated that Henry:Carew & Company,
who had.: been awarded the contract-for; building the addition
to the Iaw Building, claimed to have Lmade a large error- in




IA4AI'('// i  I 7 A (;, 'iS9S.


207


footing the bids submitted by sub-c6ntractois, and were unwilling to enter into contract under their bid for the completed
work.   They asked the Board to correct the footings froi
which they would make a discount of $2,000 and enter into
the required contract.  After careful consideration tile Board
decided to allow all the competing parties to submtit aended
bids if they should so desire.
The following is the result of the second bidding:
CHAS. A. SA ER, ANN ARBI(R.
For the work according to plans and speciticati(ons -------— __ —  ^$52,600
Additional cost of fire proof flooring in I ilbrary -  ---- --—.... _  2,200
Additional cost for grooving stone ashler. ----  --- -     f_ _,600
Additional cost for adamant --- — ---- —... — --  -  ___
S5,400oo
\VILLIA. M  S. I'I(;INS, 1)E TR  )IT.
According to plans and specifications  --— S —i —, — -__-_ __ I,860o
Additional cost of fire proof flooring --- —     - 1_,6oo
Additional cost of grooving stone ashler ---- -------..    1,400oo
Additional cost of adamant       -   --- ----     __oo
55,66o
SAMUEL PICKI.IS, JACKSO)N.
According to plans and specifications ---- __ -- -. —  55o,ooo
()ORTMAN & CO., D)FT'rOIT.
According to plans and specifications ---- _ ---.. - -    49,59S
Additional for fire proof flooring —                       2,_ooo
Additional for grooving stone ashler  -.-  - -.    _     700
Additional for adamant — -     -.-..  _  -- ---— _-  600
52,898
KOCH BROS., ANN A(BOKR.
According to plans and specifications, including fire proof flooring,
stone ashler, and adamant ---      _       _   ___   50.450
HIENRY CAREW & (CO., DETROIT'.
According to plans and specifications — _ --- —- _-. -- ~ -- S46,2IS
Additional for fire proof flooring --- -- - — _   —.- __  __ 6..  1,667
Additional for grooving stone ashler ----.-.____  ___       oo500
Additional for adamant -  --------      -_______._    615
49(,000




208             MIARCCH AIMEETING, 1898.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the contract was awarded
to Henry Carew & Co. for the sum of $49,000, upon their
executing a satisfactory contract, and giving the required
bonds, and the President and Secretary were authorized to
sign said contract in the name of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Secretary was requested
to go to Grand Rapids and purchase the necessary furniture
for the new Dormitory Building.
On motion the Board adjourned to April i8th at io
o'clock A. MI.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




APRIL MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,  )
ANN ARBOR, April 22, 1898.
The Board assembled in the room of the President at io
o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher,
Farr, and Lawton.
Absent, Regent Butterfield.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Kiefer, approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry communications which had been received by the
President were placed in the hands of appropriate committees
of the Board'for consideration.
Regent Cocker moved that $Ioo be appropriated for the
purpose of securing two lectures before the University by
Professor Percy Gardner, of Oxford University.  It was so
ordered by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Cocker, Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, and
Lawton.
Nays —None.
The President read the following communication from
the University Senate, and the recommendations therein contained were adopted by asfull vote of the Board.
ANN ARBOR, April I3, I898.
To THE HONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS,
GENTLEMEN:-At a meeting of the University Senate, held on the 7th
of March, a committee consisting of the President and the Deans of the
several departments was raised to consider the financial questions involved




21.


APRIL IMEETING, 1898.


in all student organizations, and such other allied questions as might seem
to them worthy of consideration.
At a meeting of the Senate, held on the I Ith of April, the committee
reported that it had seemed wise to them, for the time at least, to consider only
the case of the Students' Lecture Association. In regard to that association
the committee submitted several recommendations which, after discussion
and some amendment, were adopted by the Senate, and are now respectfully referred to your Honorable Body for consideration.
The recommendations adopted by the Senate are as follows:
(1) All tickets shall be prepared by the Treasurer of the University, at
the expense of the Lecture Association, and shall be delivered by him,
receipts being taken therefor, to the proper officers of the Association.
(2) The appointment of all doorkeepers and ushers shall be subject
to the approval of the Treasurer of the University.
(3) All moneys realized from the sale of tickets, together with all
unsold tickets, shall be handed over to the Treasurer of the University,
who shall hand over the money to the Treasurer of the Association.
(4) There shall be an Auditing Board, of which a member of the
Senate, to be designated by the President, shall be Chairman.  The
approval of this Board shall be necessary for all expenditures and contracts.
(5) No engagement for entertainments shall be entered into without
the approval of the President of the University.
(6) The proper officers of the Association, at the close of each season,
shall make a full financial statement, in writing, to the Treasurer of the
University.
(7) The bond of the Treasurer of the Association shall be approved
by the Auditing Board of the University.
Respectfully Submitted,
WM. H. PETTEE,
Secretary of the University Senate.
Regent Farr presented and read the following communication from the '98 Law Class, asking permission to lay a
corner stone in the new Law Building.      The permission asked
for was granted, but the form of inscription the stone should
bear was referred to the Law Faculty for decision.
ANN ARBOR, Mich., April 22, '98.
To THE HONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS AND LAW FACULTY OF THE
U. OF M.:
GENTLEMEN:-The law class of 1898, believing that it would be quite
appropriate for the new law building to have a cornerstone designated as




APRIL MEETING, 1898.


N11


such, respectfully request that you grant to us the permission to lay such a
stone.
At the same time we suggest that the following are, in brief, the ideas
we have in mind:
I. The stone to be laid on a day agreeable to the contractors, so as
not to delay their work.
2. The stone to be same size as the short cornerstones, 14  x30
inches, so as not to change or in any way alter the regular plan of the
building.
3. This cornerstone to be cut from New Westerly Granite, a granite
of pink shade, and to bear the following inscription:
JUSTICE. LAID BY LAW CLASS OF I898.
PROGRAM OF EXERCISES.
I. Some distinguished lawyer of the state to make a short address,
say twenty minutes, and a few remarks by the President of the '98 class
three or five minutes, and some music.
In the stone there is to be a receptacle in which shall be placed such
records as may be most preferred, including the names of the present Board
of Regents, Law Faculty, and members of the '98 class. The box for these
records is expected to be 9xI2x5 inches, so it will hold the U. of M. catalogue and other papers, etc.
Trusting this request will meet your approval, we await your convenience in reply.
We are very respectfully,        G. H. WILKES,
W. E. STOWE,
R. L. WEAVER,
Committee of '98 Class.
The President read a communication from         Mrs. Samuel
T. Douglass, of Grosse Isle, presenting to the Univevstty the
Law Library of the late Judge Samuel T. Douglass, consisting
of 800 volumes.
The following resolution was offered by Regent Fletcher,
and adopted by the Board:
Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents of the University
of Michigan be extended to Mrs. Elizabeth C. Douglass, for her generous
offer to give to the University the Law Library of her distinguished husband, the Honorable Samuel T. Douglass, and that her offer be accepted; and
Resolved, further, That the President of the University be directed to
send to Mrs. Douglass a copy of this resolution.




212


APR'I- AIEETING, i898.


The President being obliged to leave, called     Regent
Cocker to the chair.
Professor Kelsey addressed the Board and urged the
appointment of a Professor of Art in the University.
Professor Spalding asked the Board to appoint a committee of three ito meet a like committee appointed.by the Agricultural College for consultation as to the best method of
protecting the forestry of the State.  The President appointed
as such committee Regents Lawton and Cook, and Professor
V. M. Spalding.
Regent Dean presented and read the following coimmunication from the Dean of the Engineering iDepartment, and the
course of study outlined therein was approved by the Board.
ANN ARBOR, April 20, 1898.
TO THE HONORABIE, THE BOARD OF RE(ENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN:
GENTLEMEN: —The Faculty of the Department of Engineering would
respectfully ask your approval of a course of study in this department leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Clhemical Enginee-ri;'.
The proposed work is as follows, as now required of NMechanical
Engineering students:
FRENCH AND GERMAN-Fifteen hours.
ENGLISH-Four hours.
MATHEMATICS —Thirteen hours.
PHYSIcs —Ten hours.
DRAWING —Nine hours.
SHOP' PRACTiCE —Four hours.
IMETALLURGY —Three hours.
PHYSICS-Laboratory, three hours.
SURVEYING —Use of Instruments, one hour.
Required of Civil Engineering students.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING-Mechanism, two hours.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING —Dynamics of Machinery, one hour.
MECHA-N-ICAL ENGINEERING —Engines and Boilers, three hours.
MECHANICAL E-N;TINEERING-Hydraulic Machinery, two hours.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING —Dynamos, three hours.
CHEMISTRY —Qualitative Analysis, ten hours.
C HE.MISTRY -Quantitativ e- Analysis, seven hours.
CHEMISTRY —Advanced Quantitative, fiy v hours.




APRILtZ AE 7EE'ING, i8qS.


213


CHEMISTRY —Organic, five hours.
CHEMISTRY —Organic Preparations, two hours.
CHEMISTRY —Gas Analsyis, one hour.
CHEMISTRY —Chemical Technology, five hours.
CHEMISTRY —Organic Technology, five hours.
CHEMISTRY-Special Work, five hours.
Amounting in all to one hundred andi eighteen hours of required work,
and leaving twelve hours for electives.
If nine elective hours are devoted to additional Mathematics and two
hours to Resistance of Materials, a fifth year will enable the student to
carry on Machine Design and broaden in Mechanical Engineering.
No addition to the teaching force will be needed for this course.
Professor Prescott heartily endorses this proposed course of study and
states that inquiries for such a course, and for students who have had such
training, are made from time to time. It is not expected that the number of
students will be large.
A similar course is now offered at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.
Respectfully submitted.     CHAS.. E. GREEN,
Dean of Dep't of Eng'g.
Regent Dean read the      following   communication    from
Professor M. E. Cooley, and the requests therein contained
were granted by the full vote of the Board.
ANN ARBOR, Michigan, April 20, I898.
To THE HONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS, UNIVERSITY OF MICHIt;AN:
GENTLEMEN: —Three years ago last winter I was invited by Lieut.
Commander Gilbert Wilkes, of the Michigan State Naval Brigade, to join
the Michigan Naval Reserves as engineer officer.
After considering the matter fully, and conferring with President
Angell, I accepted the invitation, believing that it would be advantagous
to the University in connection with work in marine engineering and naval
architecture. I was commissioned Past Assistant Engineer April II, 1895.
The brigade is now awaiting orders from the Navy Department to join
the Patrol Squadron, having been assigned to one of the auxiliary cruisers.
In order that I may perform the work now assigned to me in the
Naval Service, I respectfully ask for a leave of absence until October I,
to begin when orders are received, with permission to apply for an extension of leave should my services be longer required.
Mr. George B. Willcox, of Bay City, a graduate from the University in
Mechanical Engineering, I895, has kindlv consented to undertake a portion




2^14   ~        APRIL AMEETING, i8g8.
of the work in Mechanical Engineering during my absence. lie is well
qualified by experience to teach marine engineering and the practical laboratory work. Messrs. Allen, Faig, and Jones, with the help of Mr. Willcox,
will be able to do the work remaining to be done between now and Commencement. I therefore respectfully request that Mr. Willcox be authorized
to give instruction in mechanical engineering for the balance of the school
year, compensation therefor to be received from me.
I have the honor to remain yours very truly,  M. E. COOI.EY.
The Board took a recess until 2 o'clock p. m.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. m.
Regent Cocker, chairman of the Finance Commnittee submitted the following budget for the Academic yeais I898-99
which was adopted by the full vote of the Board.
BUDGET.
The Finance Committee submit the following budget for the year
1898-99:
ESTIMATED RESOURCES.
One-sixth mill tax,... SI84,I83.33
Homceopathic Act,....     6,ooo.oo
University Interest,..                38,500.00
Students' fees and deposits,....              I74,127,00
Summer Schools,...                 6,000.00
University Hospital,..                        7,500.00
Homeeopathic Hospital,...                 3,000.00
Miscellaneous sources,...                       9,000.00
Aid for Hospitals,...           3,000.00
$441,310.33
ETIMATED EXPENDITURES.
The estimates are for current expenses except when otherwise specified.
Department of Greek,.....       25.00
Illustrative plates,.....      200.00
Department of Geology,....       I50.00
Lantern slides,....        oo0.
Department of German,..                           50.00
Additional Instructor,....                  900.0o
Department of English,...                    50.00
Department of Philology..                           50.00




APRIL i EEATINVG, 1898.
Department of Philosophy,.
Department of Botany,
Special Apparatus,.
Botanical Garden,
Department of Zoology, 
Apparatus,
Department of Mineralogy,.
Department of Astronomy,.
Department of Civil Engineering,
Leveling Instruments,
Department of Engineering,.
Department of Mechanical Engineering,
Department of Engineering Shops,
Addition to Foundry and removal of Wash Room,
Department of Physics,
Department of Latin,.
Illustrative Plates,.
Department of Music,
Department of French,.
Additional Instructor,
Department of Semitics,.
Chemical Laboratory,
Special Apparatus,.
Law Department,.
Secretary,.
Dental College,.
Additional Help,.
Extension of Building and Repairs,
Museum,.
Waterman Gymnasium,
Women's Gymnasium,
Piano,.
Women's Hygiene,.
General Library,.
Additional help in Cataloguing,
University News Letter,
Salary of Editor,
University Hospital,.
Nurses,
Iomceopathic College and Hospital,
X ray,.
Hygiene,
Department of Medicine and Surgery,


215


400.00
612.00
138.00
300.00
800oo.oo
200.00
50.00
370.00
350.00
145.00
265.00
550.00
956.00
1,500.00
1,200.00
100.00
150.00
200.00
900o.o00
I00.00
8,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
200.00
6,000.00
100.00
400.00
500.00
300.00
200.00
125.00
25.00
461.00oo
200.00
89.00
300.00
14,780.oo
200.00
6,000.00
125.00
2,500.00
500.00




APRI  ill EEFT IG, iSS.


H istology,
Apparatus and Instruments,
Anatomical Material,
Anatomical Department,
Ophthalmology,
Materia Medica,
Spectroscope,
Pathology,
Microscopes,
Microtome,
Jars,
Asylum Pathologist,
Theory and Practice,
Microscope,
Electrotherapeutics,
Nervous Diseases,
Surgical Demonstrations,
Surgical Clinic,
Special Apparatus,
Physiology,
Special Apparatus,
Gynaecology,
Microscope,
Reagents,
Dermatology,
Books for Libraries,
Contingent Expenses,
Repairs,
Ftiel and Lights,
Postage,
Printing,
Summer Schools,
Insurance,
Water Supply,
Carpenter shop,
School Inspection
Commencement Expenses,
Diplomas,
Care of teams,
General Pay Roll,
General Chemistry Instructor,
Amount to Balance,


60o.o0
172.00
3.000,00
271.00
62.00
346.00
100.00
500.00
60.00
200.00
200.00
100.00
I125.00
500.00
15o.oo
286.00
120.00
200.00
300.00
500.00
125.oo
125.00
25.00
50.00
I5,000.00
I0,000.00
6,ooo.oo
17,000.00
1,200.00
3,000.00
6,ooo.oo
500.00
i,6oo.oo
500.00
700.00
700.00
1.200.00
500.00
299,089.00
900.00
0oo.oo
15,088.33
s441,310.33




APRIL MEE TING,.8qg8.


217


On motion of Regent Fletcher the bonds submitted by
Henry Carew and Company, contractors for the new law building,,.were. approved.
)n motion of Regent Cook the Homoeopathic Faculty
were authorized to employ two additional nurses in the Training School.
On motion of Regent.Cocker the salary of Doctor W. B.
Hinsdale was fixed as follows: from October ist, 1898, $2,0oo
for his professorship; and $500 salary as Dean of the Departilent.
On motion of Regent Cocker the Board voted unaminously to abrogate the time schedule of salaries adopted October 12, 1892.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Prof. Alexander Ziwet was
granted leave of absence for the academic year of i898-9, his
salary to lapse during his absence.
On motion of Regent Dean, Professor Pettee was employed to audit the books of the Treasurer and Secretary.
The compensation allowed for the work was $Ioo, by a full
vote of the Board.
Regent Cook presented and read a communication from
Professor J. A. Craig, asking the board to appoint Professor
Karl Budd, of the University of Strassburg, special lecturer
in Semitics for the ensuing year at a salary of $400. Professor
Budd to give six lectures on "The Religious Life and Thought
of the Hebrews before the Exile."  On motion the communication was laid on the table.
Regent Kiefer presented a communication from   Mr.
l)ensmore Cramer which was, on motion of Regent Cook, laid
on the table by the full vote of the Board.
Dr. Vaughan reported that he had made.an analysis of,a
sample of water sent by Mr. W. E. Allen, of Detroit, for which
'Mr. Allen had paid the usual fee of $io. It was afterwards
discovered that Mr. Alien desired to use the report for commercial purposes. The Board decided that such use of the report
could not be allowed, and instructed the secretary to ask Mr.




'218


APRIZ MAETIArCG 1898.


Alleh to return the report and to refund him the money paid.
On motion of Regent Kiefer the charge for analyzing
samples of water under the state law was fixed at $io, being
somewhat less than actual cost.
The University Hospital Committee reported that Miss
Emma Bullock had completed the required course in the
Training School for Nurses and was recommended for graduation.  On motion of Regent Kiefer the President and Secretary were authorized to issue the proper certificate of Graduation, and attach the seal of the University thereto.
Regent Kiefer submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted by the unanimous vote of the Board:
Resolved, That in case of war the President be authorized to tender to
Gen'l R. A. Alger, Secretary of War, the use of the University lospitals for
war purposes.
Regent Kiefer submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the title of Professor Lombard, now Professor of Physiology and Histology, be changed to Professor of Physiology. That I)r.
McMurrich's title be made Professor of Anatomy and Director of the Anatomical Laboratory; and that Dr. Huber's title be made Assistant Professor
of Anatomy and Director of the Histological Iaboratory; and that the
Assistant in Physiological Chemistry, Mr. Charles L. Bliss, be transferred
from the Chemical laboratory to the'laboratory of IHygiene.
The resolution was adopted by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the following comlltunication from the Dean of the School of Pharmacy; and the
Board, by vote, established the degree of " Master of Science
in Pharmacy," as requested:
SCHOOL OF PHARMACY, UNtIVERSI'r (OF M ICHIGAN.' 
March 17, I898. 
TO THE HONORABIE BOARI) OF REGENTS:
GENTLEMEN':-The Faculty of Pharmacy beg leave to request vour
honorable body to authorize this Faculty to offer a higher degree, to be
entitled the degree of Master of Science in Pharmacy. The candidates for
this degree to be Bachelors of Science in Pharmacy in this University, or
in some other university giving the same degree upon equal footing. This
Faculty to be authorized to recommend candidates to receive the degree




APRIL MAEETING, i898.


21)


specified upon requirements of studies and of examinations that are of equal
grade with those in force at the same time for Master's degrees in the Grad-:uate School (Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts).
This request is made in accordance with the 'action of the Faculty of
this School on Feb. 25, 1898.
Respectfully,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT, Dean.
Regent Cook presented and read a report of the work and
earnings of the Homceopathic Hospital from       October i to
March 31, which was, on motion, placed on file.
Regent Fletcher submitted the following resolution:
Resoled(, That in case of enlistment for service under the General
Government of any candidate for a degree this year, whose work and
standing at such time of enlistment is good, he shall be allowed to graduate
with his class and receive his degree. And that underclassmen who enlist
shall be allowed to return at any time and take up their work at the point
where they left off without additional expense for that year.
The resolution was adopted unamimouslv.
Regent Fletcher presented    and read a communication
from  Henry Beswick, contractor for the erection of the New
Dormitory building, asking the Board to reimburse him in the
sum  of $2,500, which he claims to have lost on the contract.
The Board declined to comply with the request.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Botanical department
was allowed to purchase a small motor and the necessary shafting for the same, the cost to be charged to the budget fund of
that department for the present year.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the use of University Hall
was granted for a lecture by Judge C. B. Grant.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Auditing Board were
authorized to purchase electric fixtures for the Dormitory
building.
Regent Fletcher presented and read the monthly report
of the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Committee on Buildings and Grounds were authorized to get bids for extending




,-20
Zc v


2  APRI. IMEE TING, J 898..the book-room of the General Library fifty feet and comlpleting
the salue ready for use.
On motion of Reagent Fletcher, the bill of John Scott, of
$450 for plans and specifications 'for the Dormitory Building
and $25 for inspecting roof trusses of University Hall, was
allowed by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Dean, it was voted that Mr. R. H.
Miller be employed as Mechanician, at a salary of $3 per day,
for the college year. The hours of service per day to be the
same as those of the other employees of the University.
A communication was received from Mr. C. L. Rooks, a
student in the Law Department, claiming that the Treasurer's
books do not give him credit for the full amount of money
paid by him on his yearly fees, and asking to be relieved from
further payment. By the full vote of the Board the request
was denied.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Friday, May 13, a
Io o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WAI)E,
SEC RETAR Y.




MAY MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MIICHIGAN,  }
ANN ARBOR, AMay 13, 1898.
The Board assembled in the room of the President at o1
o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr,
Cocker, and Lawton.
Absent, Regent Butterfield.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Dean, approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry communications which had reached the President
were placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the
Board for consideration.
The President presented and read the will of the late
Doctor Elizabeth H. Bates, of Port Chester, New York, in
which the University is made the legatee to an estate valued
at $I25,000, subject to an annuity of $1,200 to Mary A. Hanners, now eighty-four years old, and the further annuity of
$1oo for the purpose of keeping the graves of the father and
mother of the testatrix in order.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution which
was adopted by the Board:
ltesolved, That the gift of Miss Elizabth 1II. Bates, of Port Chester,
N. Y., to the University, for the use of the Medical Department thereof, made
by her will, bearing date the I5th day of December, I890, together with all
the conditions accompanying said gift be, and the same is, hereby accepted
by the said University, and the President is requested to inform the Executor of the action of the Board.




222


LMA Y LTEEz TING, i 898.


The President presented and      read  the following cornmunication from Hon. R. A. Alger, Secretary of War:
WAR DEPARTMErNT, WASHINGTON. 
May 2, I898. 
I)EAR MR. IlUTCIIINS:-I have your letters of the 28th and 29th
ultimo, and thank you, on the part of my Department, for the patriotic
offer of your University placing its Hospital at the disposal of the United
States, should it be needed. Very truly yours,
R. A. ALGER, Secretary of War.
H. B. HuTrcHINs, Esq., Acting President, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Michigan.
The President read the following communication from
Dr. C. B. Nancrede:
ANN ARBOR, May 8, 1898.
To THE IHONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
Gentleen. —As a teacher of modern surgery it is essential that I
become practically acquainted with the effects of modern war projectiles.
Governor Pingree has urgently requested me personally, and by telegraph to Acting President Hutchins, that I should be accorded leave of
absence to serve as Surgeon to the Third Michigan Infantry, and has
already so commissioned me.
May I therefore ask for temporary leave of absence, such as was
accorded Drs. Gunn and Palmer during the civil war, and Prof. M. E. Cooley,
at present now serving with the Naval Reserves? I would suggest that Dr.
Darling, the Lecturer on Minor Surgery, be directed to assume my duties
during the few remaining weeks of the session.
Yours truly,
CHAS. IB. NANCREDE.
On motion of Regent Kiefer leave of absence was granted
to Dr. Nancrede as requested in the foregoing communication,
and Dr. C. G. Darling was requested to assume the duties of
the chair of Surgery     during the remaining weeks of the
present academic year.
Regent Dean moved the following reappointments in the
Chemical Laboratory for one year:


Moses Gomberg, Sc.D., Instructor in    Organic Chemistry, salary
$I,200,




JIA Y U      IA'l  7TAG, i898.


223


Perry F. Trowbridge, Ph.B., Instructor in Organic Chemistry and
Accountant in Chemical Iabloratory, salary $9oo.
Alfred II. White, A.B., Instructor in Chemical Technology, salary
$900.
Herman E. Brown, B.S., Assistant in Qualitative Analysis, salary
$500.
Carl Sundstrom, Assistant in Quantitative Analysis, salary $200.
Evi D. Benjamin, Ph.C., Assistant in P'harmacy, salary $I50.
William H. Hess, Assistant in Organic Chemistry, without salary.
The appointments were made by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, Cocker, and
Lawton.
Nays-None.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the following communication  from  the Dean of the Medical Faculty, and           the
recommendations therein contained were approved by the full
vote of the Board.
To the Honorable Board of Aegenzts.
GENTLEMEN.-I am instructed by the Medical Faculty to recommend
to you the following appointments for the year 1898-99:
That James G. Lynds, M.D., now Acting Professor of Gynaecology, be
appointed Demonstrator of Obstetrics and Gynaecology. Salary, $500.
That Simon M. Yutzy, M.D., Instructor in Anatomy and Demonstrator
of Anatomy, be reappointed without change in salary. $1,200.
That Frank W. Nagler, B.S., be reappointed Instructor in Electrotherapeutics, without change in salary. $600.
That Herbert H. Waite, A.B., Instructor in Bacteriology and I)ispensing Clerk in the Hygienic Laboratory, be reappointed without change in
salary. $600.
That Cyrenus G. Darling, M.D., Demonstrator of Surgery and Lecturer on Minor Surgery, be reappointed without change in salary. $500.
That James P. Briggs, Ph.C., Pharmacist in the University Hospital,
be reappointed without change in salary. $600.
That Jeanne C. Solis, M.D., Demonstrator of Nervous Diseases, be
reappointed without change in salary. $500.
That D. Murray Cowie, M.D., be reappointed Assistant to the Professor of Theory and Practice of Medicine without salary.
That Casper K. Lahuis, M.D., Demonstrator of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, be appointed Assistant to the Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology
without salary.




224


IAt J' AIlE 7YzVGG, 1898.


That Thomas B. Cooley, A.B., M.I)., be appointed Assistant in Hygiene, in place of Julian T. McClymonds, M.D., and at the same salary.
This assistant is also assigned the work in examination of samples of water
and food, and the total salary is $400. This is the same as it was before.
That August E. Guenther be reappointed Assistant in Physiology,
without change in salary. $500.
That Charles L. Bliss, B.S., be reappointed Assistant in Physiological
Chemistry. Salary, $196.
That Harry W. Clark, B.S., be reappointed Superintendent of the
University Hospital, without change in salary. $i,ooo.
That George B. Wallace, M.D., Assistant in Pharmacology, be reappointed, without change in salary. $500.
That John S. Johnson, M.D., Demonstrator of Ophthalmology and
Otology, be reappointed, without change in salary. $500.
That James R. Arneill, A.B., M.D., Demonstrator of Clinical Medicine, be reappointed, without change in salary. $500.
That William A. Spitzley, A.B., M.D., Assistant to the Professor of
Surgery, be reappointed. Salary, $200.
Doctor Carrow is not yet ready to name his assistant.
That C. D. Silver, M.D., be appointed Assistant to the Professor of
Theory and Practice of Medicine, in place of Mrs. McNeal, and at the same
salary. $200.
That Charles B. Gauss, M.D., be advanced to the position of Hlouse
Surgeon in place of House Physician. He is to take the position vacated
by Ralph N. Gordon, M.D., and to have the same salary. $300.
That Norton D. Coons be appointed Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy, in place of Willard H. Hutchings, and at the same salary. $200.
That Harold M. Doolittle be appointed Assistant Demonstrator of
Anatomy, in place of William S. Durand, and at the same salary. $200.
That Lawrence N. Upjohn be appointed Assistant Demonstrator of
Anatomy, in place of Robert C. Bourland, and at the same salary. $200.
That Louisa May Dithridge be appointed Assistant Demonstrator of
Anatomy, in place of Lena A. Benjamin, and at the same salary. $200.
That James F. Breakey, M.D., be appointed Assistant in Dermatology,
without salary, in place of Charles A. Cattermole.
That Theophil Klingman, Ph.C., M.D., be reappointed Assistant to
the Professor of Nervous Diseases and Electrotherapeutics. Doctor Klingman is the man selected to do the work for the Asylums. However, he
holds these two positions.
That Mrs. Lydia M. DeWitt be appointed Assistant in Histology, in
place of Herman W. Orr, and at the same salary. $300.
That the Superintendents of the Asylums of the State, Dr. William
Edwards of the Michigan Asyluml, Dr. Edward Christian of the Eastern




NiA1Y  IFI6'/'/ N, 'ySoS. 


'225


Michigan Asylum, D)r. James MIunson of the Northern Asylutl,:il!l J)r. Bell
of the Northern Peninsula AsylumL, )e alppointed Special I.cctulrcrS 1 u)p
Mental Diseases, Irovided these -cntlcmen conscit to give one or lmlore
special lectures each, the University payIiing tlheir actual expenses while
giving these lectures.
That Henry 1B. Baker, IM.I., Secretary of the State Boar(l of Health,
be appointed Special Iecturler ont the Adm(iniistration of I lcatlt Laws, un1der
the same conditions as mentiolned above for tile Asylunl Superintenldents.
I herewith sub)mit to vou colmuniicatiion from 1)r. Samuel I). 'l'Toey,
of Oakland, Iowa. I amii instructed by the Mledical lFaculty to ask that vou
grant the request of Doctor Toley and confer upIon himll the degree of M.D.
as a member of the class of I86o.
Respectfully submitting the above, I hlave the honlor to he,
Yours Illost ob)e(ldictly,
V. C. V\A t(;ix, Dean.
On motion of Regent Cocker the following alppointments
were made in the Literary and Engineering, Departmients:
Louis A. Strauss, 'h.M., Instructor in English for three years, salary
$900.
John S. P. Tatlock, A.M1., Instructor in EInglish for one year, salary
$900.
Charles II. Gray, M.I,  Assistant ill Eiglish for one year, salaryl 3600.
The increase of salary is made upon tle condition that MIr. Gray shall give
twice the amount of time to the w(ork that was re(luired last year.
Penoyer L. Sherman, Ph.I)., Instructor in Genleral Chemistry, salary
$900.
Clifton I. Briggs, B.S., Assistant in General Chemisitry, salary Si96.
Ralph HI. Page, Laboratory Assistant ini General Chemnistry, salary
$I50.
James W. Glover, Ph.)., Instructor in Matlahematics for three years,
salary $900.
Edwin C. Goddardl, Ph.B., Instructor iln Mathlcitmatics for three years,
salary $900.
James 13. Pollock, Sc.D., Instruct(or in Botainy, salary- SgOO.
Arthur II. Benefiel, Assistant in Blotany, salar S2o00.
John Loeffler, Assistant iln 1ot1(any, salary SIoo.
Fred P. Jordan, A.     A\ssistant inl General I ilrarv. in charge of
catalogue, salary $I,200.
Byron A. Finney, A.1B., Assistaut in the (General 1,iirary, in charge
of circulation, salary $I,200.
Ilenry (. Severance, A.B., Assistanlt ili tle General I. ihrary, salary
$700.




'226


JA1 Y l'E'E'I 7?NAG,,S'9S.


Wilber C. Ablott, B.litt., Instructor in Htistory, salary $9go.
Walter i)ennison, A.MI., Instructor in Ilatin, salary $900.
John C. Granrud, Plh.1)., Assistant ill latin, salary $225.
Samuel A. Jeffers, A.B., Assistant iln Latin, salary $225.
George Depue HIadszits,,  Assistant in Latin, salary $225.
James W. Sturgis, A.M., Assistant in Latin, salary $225.
John R. Effinger, 1Ph.M., Instructor in French for three years, salary
$I,200.
Ewald Boucke, Ph.)., Instructor in German, salary S900.
Victor E. Francois, Instructor in French for three years, salary $900.
Herberet J. Goulding, B.S., Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and
Drawing for three years, salary $9oo.
John R. Allen, B.S., iM.L,., Instructor in Mechanical Engineering,
salary $goo.
John T. Faig, M.E., Instructor in Mechanical Engineering, salary $700.
Carroll I). Jones, E.E., Instructor in Electrical Engineering, salary
$900.
Ernest P. Goodrich, Assistant to the Dean of the Engineering Department, salary $300.
Alice I. Hunt, Assistant in Drawing, salary $750.
SPECIAl, ASSISTANT S IN ENGINEERINtG StIiOPS.
Robert A. Winslow in Foundry, salary $675.
William R,. MIcI)onald in Forge Room, salary $675.
John M. Smoots in Iron Room, salary SI,ooo.
Horace T. Purfield in Woood R1oom, salary $700.
On motion of Regent Cocker the leave of absence granted
Clarence L. Meader, Instructor in Latin, was extended            to
cover the academic year of I898-99.
On motion of Regent Farr the following          appointments
were made in the Department of Law for the year 1898-99,
by the full vote of the Board:
John W. Dwyer, 1L.M., Instructor, salary S9oo.
Albert J. Farrah, I-.B., Instructor, salary $9oo.
Thomas NM. Cooley, IL.D)., Lecturer on Interstate Commerce, without salary.
James L. High, LL.I)., Non-resident Lecturer on Injunctions and
Receivers, same salary as last year, 8400.
John 1B. Clayberg,  1.B., Non-resident lecturer on Mining L.aw,
same salary as last year, S300.




iIA Y' i/,' E7'/L\L(;, S()S.


227


Victor C. Vaughlan, Ph.D., Sc.D., M.I)., lecturer on Toxicology in its
Legal Relations, without salary.
Melville M. Bigelow, Ph.D., Non-resident Lecturer on Insurance,
same salary as last year, $500.
Henry C. Adams, Ph.D., Iecturer on the Railway Probllem, without
salary.
Andrew C. McIcaughlin, A.M., IL.B., Iecturer on Constitutional
Law and Constitutional I istory, without salary.
Richard Hudson, A.MI., ILecturer on Comparative Constitutional law,
without salary.
Henry H1. Swan, A.MI., Non-resident Lecturer on Admiralty Iaw,
same salary as last year, $350.
Joseph 11. Drake, A.B., Iecturer on Roman lIaw, without salary.
Frank F. Reed, A.B., Non-resi(lent Iecturer on Copyright I aw, same
salary as last year, $ IO.
Albert H. Walker,,I,.B., Non-resident I ecturer on Patent Ilaw,
same salary as last year, $300.
William J. Ilerdman, M.D., IL.I),, I, cturer on Neurology, Electrology, and Railway Injuries, without salary.
On motion of Regent Cook, MIrs. S. G. Fournier wras
reappointed Matron and Principal of the Training School for
Nurses in the Hoimceopathic Ilospital for one year.      Salary,
$45 per month.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the monthlly report of
the Superintendent of the University Hospital, which was filed
with the Chairman of the Medical Coimmittee.
Regent Fletcher stated that the use of a horse by the
Superintendent of Buildings and ('rounds would expedite the
work in many ways.    That the Superintendent will furnish the
horse provided it can be kept at the University barns.      The
Board approved of the arrangement by a full vote.
Regent Fletcher moved that an appropriation of $375 be
made for the purpose of erecting a flag staff on the campus.
A call vote resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Cook, I)ean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, Cocker, and
Lawton.
Nays-None.
The Board took a recess luntil 2 o'clock ip. m.




228


228Y 1i  r1/1:l1 7/N7\'(', 1,7. 8.


AFTERNOON         SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. M., Regent Butterfield being present.
On motion, the Board went into executive session.
Professor V. M1. Spalding asked for and obtained leave of
absence for the college year of i898-99 on account of ill
health, his salary to lapse duriin his absence.
The mathematical (lepartment asked the Board to define
the rank and pay of the man whlo should take the work of
Professor Ziwet w-lo will be awnay on leave of absence during
the next college year.  (n motion of Regent Butterfield, the
title was made "Acting Assistant IProfessor,7 and the salary
$I,200, the appointlment to he made at the next meeting of
the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Regents Butterfield and
Farr were relquested to interview the Auditor (General on his
right to withhold University mlonevs when proper requisitions
have been made for the samie.
On motion of Regent IButterfield the request of Miss
Alice Snyder, Instructor in the Women's (;Gmnasiumll, to be
allowed to finish her course in the Mledical i)epartment was
granted, provided she elmploy the necessary help to carry on
her work in the (Gymn11asiumll.
On motion of Regcnt IKiefer tle Secretary was directed
to notify the Hospital Staff that post-morteils must not be
made on patients dying at the Iospitals without first obtaining the consent of friends, as set forth in tle law.
Regent Dean moved that Justice Trowbridge, Ph.D., be
appointed Instructor in PhNsics at a salary of $900.  Dr.
Trowbridge   take the place of Professor Patterson, who
goes abroad on leave of absence. The vote resulted as follows:
Ayes —lReents Coolk, Dean, IKiefer, Fletcher, 3utterfield, Fanr,
Cocker, and Lawton.
Nays-None.




MIAY IMEtL'ING, 89gs.                   '2)
The President presented      and read the following conmmunication from Parke, Davis & Co., of Detroit:
DETROIT, Mich., MIay i, 1898.
Prof. Harry B. Hutchins, Acting President, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Mich.
Dear Sir. —Referring to your conversation with our President ant
General Manager on the occasion of your welcome visit to our Laboratorv
in company with Professor Freer, on May 5th, we now write to express our
entire willingness to devote the sum of $500 for the collegiate year I898-99,
to the continuation of the Parke, Davis & Co. Fellowship in Chemistry,
which was established in 1895, and the support of which we were constrained to suspend by causes previously explained.
While we cannot make engagement beyond the single year, we hope
that no cause will arise to demand retrenchment on our part, and thus
prevent our continuing the appropriation in the future.
May we not avail ourselves of this opportunity to explain that while
we do not desire to impose on the support of the Fellowship conditions
which would detract from its usefulness to the University, it would vet he a
source of great satisfaction to us if it could be applied to the investigation
of important drugs or to the elucidation of some problem which is distinctly
pharmaceutical in its character?  We need scarcely point out that the
results of such researches would profit not our house alone, but all manufacturing and dispensing pharmacists; and that they would ble to us a source
of much greater satisfaction than we could hope to derive from investigations bearing but slightly on the field in which naturally we take the (lee)est interest. So many interesting questions remain to be settled in coinnection with important drugs, such as Ergot, Digitalis, Canna)is Indica, (Convallaria Majalis, and others, that we hope you will be able to utilize this idea
in a manner that will appeal to us more strongly than can the determination
of the chemical nature or composition of some substance or compound
possessing only a theoretical importance.
The foregoing is not prompted t)y any desire to tie your hands or to
dictate harsh conditions-it is merely a frank expression of our ovwn preferences submitted for such consideration as you may be alle to accord it in
the light of your greater familiarity with the needs of the University.
Sincerely trusting that our decision will be a source of personal satisfaction to yourself and to Professor Freer, and that it will benelfit the University, whose value to the commonwealth of Michigan is almost beyond
estimate, we remain,          Very sincerely yours,
WM. M. WARREN, Gen'l Manager.          PARIKE, 1)AVIS & C(.
On motion the President was requested to convey to 'arke,




2 3):1.4 1  J   / '7 A'(;, /, S'.
Davis &: Co. the cordial thanks of the Board for their rreat
generosity in establishing a Fellowship in Chemistry.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Professors Vaughan, Prescott, and Freer were appointed a committee on the ParkeDavis Fellowship) to select the candidate, and arrange the work
along the lines indicated by the donors.
On motion the Board adjourned to June 9, at IO o'clock
A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SEF C RE IAR V.




JUNE MEETING.
[June 9.]
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, June 9, I898. 
The Board assembled in the room of the President at Io
o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield,
Farr, Cocker, and Lawton.
Absent, Regent Cook.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Kiefer, approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry communications which had reached the President
were placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the
Board for consideration.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the following communication:
ANN ARBOR, June 8th, I898.
To THE HONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS:
In the budget of June, I897, there was allowed the sum of $75 to each
of five departments for the purchase of a projection lantern for the Medical
Department. The lantern was ordered and received in September, I897.
Owing to delay in installing the electric light plant the apparatus could not
be tested until January, I898. It was then found to be unsatisfactory in
some of its accessories, and these parts were returned to the makers for
alterations. There has been considerable delay in making the changes so
that the whole lantern has not as yet been received. Nothing has as yet
been paid on the apparatus.
The five departments concerned therefore request the Board of
Regents to extend the time of the appropriation until the entire apparatus
has been received, tested, and found to be satisfactory, or in the event of its
not meeting the requirements, until such time as may be necessary to procure a proper apparatus from some other maker.




232


JUNTAE  EETING, i89.


The departments represented in the purchase of the lantern are:
Histology, Anatomy, Physiology, Pharmacology, and 'General Chemistry.
Very Respectfully,
P. C. FREER, Professor of General Chemistry.
On motion of Regent Kiefer the request contained in
the foregoing communication was granted by the full vote of
the Board.
Regent Butterfield moved that Benjamin P. Bourland be
appointed Instructor in French for one year at a salary of
$900, and Coleman Dudley Frank, Instructor in French, on
half time for one year at a salary of $450.     The motion was
carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, Farr, Cocker,
and Lawton.
Nays-None.
Regent Butterfield presented and read the following
communication from Prof. I. N. Demmon:
ANN ARBOR, June 9, I898.
To THE HONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS:
I take much pleasure in informing you that Miss Jessie C. Chase, of
Detroit, daughter of the late Theodore R. Chase, has at my suggestion
turned over to the University her father's extensive collection of records
and correspondence pertaining to the Alumni of this institution. As Editor
of the University Book of I88I, and as Necrologist of the Literary Alumni
for nearly forty years, he accumulated a large amount of material which
will be of great use to the future historian of our Alumni, and to the
editors of the General Catalogue.
Respectfully submitted,
ISAAC N. DEMMON.
The President was requested to transmit the thanks of
the Board to Miss Jessie C. Chase, of Detroit, for her valuable
gift to the University.
Regent Butterfield    moved   that the following appointments be made in the Literary Department:
William -I. Wait, Ph.D., Instructor in Greek, Latin, and Sanskrit for
one year. Salary $1,200.
William H-. Butts, A.B., Instructor in Mathematics for one year. Salary $900.
Albert W. Whitney, A.B., Instructor in Mathematics for one year.
Salary $900.




JUNtE ArEE7^lNG, 1988.


Ernst J. Fluegel, Ph.D., Instructor in German for one year. Salary
$900.
Hamilton G. Timberlake. A.B., and Julia W. Snow, Ph.D., Instructors
in Botany for one year. Salary $750 each.
And that the administrative work of the Departmnent of
Botany be assigned to Proessor F. C. Newcombe during the
absence of Professor Spalding, and that $250 be allowed him
for the added duties required.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, Farr, Cocker, and
Lawton.
Nays-None.
Regent Butterfield presented the resignation of Instlructor
E. A. Lyman who has accepted the chair of Mathenmatics in
the  Normal School at Ypsilanti.         The   resignation  was
accepted.
Professor A. H. Pattengill asked for and obtained l)er-mission  to  be absent from     the  University during   Coinmencement week.
Professor Trueblood    asked   for and obtained leave of
absence from   June 23, to attend the National Association of
Teachers of Oratory.
Professor Russell asked for and obtained leave of absence
from the close of his examinations to July ist to enter the
service of the United States Geological Survey.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the following appointments were made in the Zoological Department, and in the
*Museum, for the ensuing year.      This rearrangement of the
work is made necessary on account of Professor Worcester
being away on leave of absence, and does not involve any
increase in salaries, or change of titles:
J. B, phpston,. Ph.B., Instructor in Zoology. Salary $900.
Miss F. E. Langdon, M.S., Instructor in Zoology. Salary $500.
Miss Juliet M. Butler, B.S., Assistant in Zoology. Salary $30o.
John H. McClellan, A.B., Assistant in Zoology. Salary $300.
Ernest Cleverdon, Assistant in Zoology. Salary $200.
F rank-S.- Bachelder, Assistant in Zoology. Salary $200.
H. E.- Sargent, to be Curator of the Museum upon the condition that
e hlillreside in Ann Arbor and give four days of each week to this work.
Sa!a-ryS$.7po.
tH, H. Park, to be Assistant in Museum. Salary $150.




234


JUNi2E AMEETING, i898.


The above appointments were made by the full vote of
the Board.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the Board went into
executive session.
Regent Butterfield    submitted  the following   resolution
which was adopted:
WHEREAS in the judgment of the Board the attendance of students in
the Literary Department upon the gymnasium exercises, at least during the
freshman year, should be compulsory, therefore be it
Resolved, That the Literary Faculty be requested to consider the matter and report to the Board thereon, including the matter of the credit to be
given therefor.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the President was requested to appoint a reception committee consisting of three
members of the Board and three members of the Faculty to
welcome the Alumni during        Commencement week.         The
President named     as such   committee    Regents   Butterfield,
Dean, and Cocker, and Professors Demmnon, D'Ooge, and
Hudson.
Regent Dean submitted the following resolution which
was adopted:
Company A, U. of M. Rifles, composed of University students, having
asked the privilege of raising the American flag on the University of Michigan flagstaff, it is
Resolved, That the duty of raising the flag of the United States on the
flagstaff of the University of Michigan every morning and lowering the same
each day at sunset be and is hereby assigned to Co. A, U. of M. Rifles.
The commanding officer of said company will be held responsible for the
safe keeping of the flag and the carrying out of this assignment to duty.
Regent Kiefer read the following communication from
Doctor V. C. Vaughan and the leave of absence asked for was
granted:
ANN ARBOR, June 8, I898.
To THE IONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS:
GENTLEMTEN-Having been asked by Governor Pingree to accept a
position as Major and Surgeon of the 33rd Michigan Regiment, I feel that
it is my duty to do so. I therefore ask that you grant me leave of absence
until the first of (ctober next, and that this leave be extended beyond that
time if it be found to be necessary. I have made arrangements with the




JUNE MEE TING, 1'98.


235


Secretary, Doctor Huber, to attend to the correspondence. I suppose that
the Faculty will elect a presiding officer during my absence.
Hoping that you will grant this request, I am,
Most respectfully,
V. C. VAUGHAN, Dean.
Regent Kiefer read the following communication         from
the Dental Faculty, and the recommendations therein contained were approved by the full vote of the Board:
ANN ARBOR, June 9, 1898.
To THE HONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS:
SIRS-By order of the Faculty of the College of Dental Surgery, I
herewith present the names of the Instructors recommended to you for appointment in the Dental Faculty for the session of I898-99:
C. G. Darling, M.I., Clinical Lecturer on Oral Pathology and Surgery. Salary $300.
L. P. Hall, D.D.S., Instructor in Dental Anatomy, Operative Technique, and Clinical Operative Dentistry. Salary $900.
R. B. Howell, Demonstrator of Mechanical Technique. Salary $500.
J. W. Minerd, I)emonstrator of Operative Dentistry. Salary $400oo.
E. J. Anderson, Demonstrator of Prosthetic Dentistry. Salary $300.
Respectfully,
N. S. HOFF, Sec'y Dental Faculty.
Regent Kiefer submitted the following resolution which
was adopted:
Resolved, That in pursuance of the bequest of the late Dr. Elizabeth
H. Bates, of Port Chester, New York, the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan do hereby found and establish in the Department of Medicine and Surgery of said University a professorship to be known as the
Bates Professorship of the Diseases of Women and Children, and the Medical Committee are hereby requested to consult with the Medical Faculty
as to the proper man for such professorship, and report to the Board at the
earliest time convenient.
The Hospital Committee of the University Hospital asked
the Board to postpone the building of stairways in the corridors
of said Hospital until more room can be provided.      The matter was referred to the Building Committee with power to act.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the appointment of Dr. R.
S. Copeland as Superintendent of the Homnceopathic Hospital
was referred to the Hospital Committee.
On motion of Regent Butterfield it was decided to pro



236              JUNE MEETING, z808.
ceed with the erection of an addition to the book room of the
General Library.
The Auditing Board referred to the Regents two requisitions, amounting to $55, made by the Professor of Geology, the
goods having been purchased before the requisitions were submitted. The Board was asked for permission to pay the bills.
On motion of Regent Farr the bills were ordered paid by
the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Farr, Cocker, and Lawton.
Nays-Regent Fletcher.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




JUNE MEETING.
[June 28.]
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, JUNE 28, 1898. 
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr,
Cocker, and Lawton.
Absent-Regent Butterfield.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Dean, approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry communications which had reached the President
were placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the
Board for consideration.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the consideration of matters relating to the Law Building was made the special order
for 2 o'clock P. M.
Communications were received from the several Faculties
recommending candidates for degrees to be conferred on
Commencement Day, and on motion of the chairmen of the
appropriate committees the recommendations were approved
and the degrees conferred as indicated in the lists given, by
the full vote of the Board.
DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE
ARTS.
BACHELOR OF LETTERS.
Mary Irene Amidon,        Eva Bothe,
Julia Morehouse Angell,   Clara Louisa Botsford,
Lois LeBaron Avery,       Gertrude Adele Boynton,
Anna Mary Baker,          Bert John Bradner,




240


JUNE MIEETING, 8908.


Bertha Brainerd,
Katherine Holland Brown,
Charles Ward Burton,
Harriet Edwina Bushnell,
John Edward Butler,
George Frank Clukey,
Frank Elmer Creasey,
Mary Elise DeVeny,
Fred Leslie Divine,
Archibald Alexander Forshee,
Jacob Lincoln Freud,
Julia Emma Gettemy,
Jessie Scott Gregg,
Grace Asenath Hendrickson,
Dorsey Reno Hoppe,
Arthur Miller Hovey,
Charlotte Elizabeth Kennedy,
Louis Alvin Kreis,
John Edward Lawless,
Herbert McCutcheon,
Helena Marquardt,
Vincent Cuthbert Mooney,
Alice Nash,
Albert Oscar Olson,


Henry Hall Parke,
John Marshall Parker,
Margaret Van Ness Phelps,
Florence Helen PIomeroy,
Charles Fish Rathfon,
Nellie Eveline Rickert,
Pearl Osbearn Robinson,
Louis Dow Scisco, B.S., Cornell
University,
Bernath Pardee Sherwood,
Charles Simons,
Jeannette Smith,
Louise Burnett Stickney,
George Chickering Stone,
Don David Sturgis,
Marvin Walter Turner,
Lawrence Hoffman van den Berg,
Paul Warren Voorhies,
Winnie Caroline Warning,
Harriet M. Welchli,
Charles Grosvenor White,
Ella Goodenow Willcox,
Ida Ethelwyn Wing,
Bertha Helen Wise.           55


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
(IN BIOLOGY.)
Augustus Ernest Guenther,      Burton Edward Livingston,
George David Kerr Hendry,      George Bruckner Lowrie,
Fritz Carleton Hyde,           Paul Monroe Pilcher,
Carl Sears Kennedy,            Russell Sturgis Rowland,
Charles Ernest Tompkins.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
(IN CHEMISTRY.)


9


David Lake Davoll, Jr., P]
William Everett Hartman,


h.C.,    William Hugh H-ess,
James Leonard Mee,
Arthur Roy Wren.


5


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.


Laura Baker Broomall,
Julian Eugene Buchanan,
Ralph Benedict Dean,
Howard Edwin Enders, B.S.,
Lebanon Valley College,
Henry William Hess,
Frank Heady Lamb,
Mabel Gertrude Loder,


Ralph Eells Newton,
Albert Noordewier,
John Leon Parker,
Nathan S. Potter, Jr.,
Cora Adell Robison,
Herman Russell,
Edmund Schoetzow, B.S.. Afichigan Agricultzural College,




JUNE MEETING, 1898.


241


Ida Ellen Shaw,                 Andrew Lester Swinton,
Charles Stevens Smith,         Dic Hector Trowbridge,
Derk Stegenga,                 James Gerrit Van Zwaluwenburg,
Herbert Philip Stellwagen,     Charles Sherman Weaver,
William Mackey Wherry.                   23
BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY.


Frederick Clark Averill,        Jessie Marion Mack,
Caroline Bary,                  Robert Parker McMaster,
Sophie Estelle Batchelder,      George Franklin Mead,
Alice May Boutell,              Fannie Harvey Merrill,
Delia Edith Bullock,            M\innie May Moore,
William Ransom Carpenter,       Warren Pearl Morrill,
Kittie Anna Clarke,             Earl Herbert Morris,
Byron Henry Coon,               Oscar Reiff Myers,
Adriel Alanson Crawford,        Edla Maud Niles,
Albertus Darnell,               Schuyler Seager Olds, Jr.,
Julian George Dickinson,        Josephine Perry Powell,
Charles Jacob Dovel,            Flora Prowdley,
Elizabeth Webster Eaton,        Matthew Quinlan,
Charles Henry Farrell,          Katherine Reed,
Fannie Jessie Felver,           Florence Loring Richards,
Emilie Agnes Flintermann,       William Sanger,
Harriet Louise George,          Christabel Hortense Sawyer,
Grace Fanny Goodman,            Theron Malcolm Sawyer,
Charles LeRoy Harlan,           George Curtis Shirts,
Henry Thomas Ileald,            Flora Ann Sigel,
Rose May Cranston Hess,         Angus Smith,
Helen Grace Hunter,             Sara Stephan,
Helen Amelia Irland,            Kathrine Mitchell Stewart,
Ann Eliza Kimball,              Oscar Strauss,
Linus Edwin Kimmel,             Joseph Morris Thomas,
Thad Johnson Knapp,             Nellie May Turner,
Robert Young Larned,            Robert Brainard Vaile,
Carl Emil McAlvay,              John Clinton Watson,
Susanne Onins Macauley,         Frederick Henry Weng,
Mary Estelle Young.
BACHELOR OF ARTS.


59


William Benton Arbaugh, A.B,,
Scio College,
Standish Backus,
Theodore Bacmeister,
Naomi Ashley Bailey,
Ida Lavinia Baker,
Edna Lenore Ballard,
Harriet Elizabeth Beard,
Lilian Marion Bigham,
Irene Martha Blanchard,


Egbert Boone, A.B., Hope Coll.,
Esther Braley,
Charles William Burrows,
Allan Campbell,
Edward Francis Carey,
John Dieterle,
Rebecca Elizabeth Finch,
Eliza Ellen Fyan,
Christian Frederick Gauss,
Alice Mary Graham.




242


JJUNAE AEL E/ TzNG, 1898.


Walter David- Hadzsits,
Clarence Robert Hanes,
Hanna Hansen,
Harriette Ellen Harlan,
Matilda Agnes Harrington,
Julian Hartwell Harris,
Minnie Mae Hathaway,
Harry Helfman,
Mary Caroline Henderson,
Walter Dwight Hterrick,
Eva Jane Hill,
Mary Etta Hipple,
Paul Phelps Ingham,
Estelle Lorraine Jones,
Stuart Edwin Knappen,
Emma Frances Knight,
Stephen Herbert Langdon,
Erie Maude Layton,
Henry Kimball Loud,
Lewis Wilson McCandless,
Emily Mabel McCune,
Pearl McDonald,
Norman King Mclnnis,
Irving Alvin Maltby,
Esther Hewitt Marsh, A.B., Alma
College,
Guy Alonzo Miller,
Walton Edward Nims,
Abraham Lincoln Osgood,
Susan Frances Patterson,


Grace Trowbridge Potter,
Edith Louise Rice,
Harry Charles Robinson,
Augustin Rousseau,
Leland Howard Sabin,
Gertrude Savage,
Roda Selleck,
Lucile Abigail Shelley,
Frank Stanton Simons,
Archibald Whittier Smalley,
Winnifred Smith,
Harry Montraville Snow,
Louise S. Thompson,
Condit Brewer Van Arsdall,
Jacob G. van den Bosch, A.B., Hope
College,
Arthur Henry Van Horn,
John Frank Van Slooten, A.B.,
IIope College,
Charles Curtis Wallin,
Matthew John Walsh,
Minnie E. Walter,
Samuel Hills Warriner,
Louise Pauline Weinmann,
Herbert William W hitten,
Montie Lyons \Wiers,
Nina Allene WNilber,
Elizabeth Lee Wilcox,
Thomas Robert Woodrow,
Blanche Martha Young.        76


MASTER OF LETTERS.


Annie Louise Bacorn, B.L.,


Walter Charles Haight, B.L.


Grace Lord Lamb, B.L.


3


MASTER OF SCIENCE.


Clifton Henry Briggs, B.S., lIich.
Agricultural College,
Juliet Morton Butler, B.S.,
Homer Redfield Foster, Ph.B.,
Oliver D. Frederick, B.S., West
Chester Normal School,
William Marshall, B.S.,
Jessie Phelps, B.S.,


Bert William Peet, B.S., 11zich.
Agricultural College,
Hamilton Greenwood Timberlake,
A.B., Lake Forest University,
Charles Edwin Van Orstrand, B.S.,
Un iversity of Illinois,
Hugh Elmer Ward, B.S. ilic/h
Agricultuzral College.     o


MASTER OF PHILOSOPHY.
Romanzo Colfax Adams, Ph.B.,    Florence Mabelle Halleck, Ph.B.,
Archibald Campbell, Ph.B.,      Willis Hhamel Wilcox, Ph.B.


4




JUNE MEETING, 89g8.


243


MASTER OF ARTS.
Inez Louise Abbott, A.B.,      Annie Louise Hill, A.B.,
Mary Emma Armstrong, A.B.,     Eugene LaRowe, A.B.,
Olivet College,            Katharyne Griffith Sleneau, AB.,
Allen Lysander Colton, A.B.,    Edson Read Sunderland, A.B.,
Frederic Samuel Goodrich, A.B.,  Ruby Winifred Sunderlin, A.B.,
Wesleyan Uziversity,           Olivet College,
Sophie Chantal Hart, A.B., Rad-  Freaerick Tvndall Swan, A.B.,
cliffe College,            Jeremiah Smleon Young, A.M,
George Frederick Heffelbower, A.B.,  anBsas College.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY.


I3


Gertrude Buck, MS.S.,
Walter Dennison, A.IM.,
John Robert Effinger, Jr., 'Ph.M1,


Riotaro Kodamla, Doshiisia Co/llege,
Edwin Carl Roedder, A M.,
Arletta I eora Warren, Ph.B., U'nziv.
of 1[Wooster.           6 —263


DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
(IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEEIRING.)


Benjamin Franklin Bailey,
Frederic Crossgrove Barr,
Frederick Paul Beach,
Frederick King Boomhower,
Irving J. Brown,
Roy Wilcox Brown,
John Winford Byers,
Edward Bliss Coolidge,
Sollace Burroughs Coolidge,
Leonard Porter Coulter,
John Shepherd Cowgill,


Faust Franklin Crampton,
Leon Goldsmith,
Harry Eli Harrington,
LeRoy Mortcn Harvey,
William Jonathan Marsh,
Fred Webster Newell, A.M., Bates
College,
Otto Pruessman,
James Thorpe St. Clair,
Clarence William Squier,
Robert Steck,


Fay Woodmansee.


22


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
(IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.)
Frederick Chittenden Borst,    Percy Melvin Holdsworth,
Thomas Alfred Bragg,           Edward Potter Marsh,
Charles Olney Cook,            Herbert Albion Moody,
HIoward Felver,                Joseph Herman Pettersch,
Frank Anton Fucik,             Claudius Horatio Thomas,
Fred May Green,                Albert Andrew Weber,
Morey Aldrich Wood.


I3




244


JUNE MEETING, O89S.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
(IN CIVIL ENGINEERING.)


Charles Wiley Baggott,
Murray Blanchard,
Henry Winter Daniels,
Isaac DeYoung,
Amos Floyd Everett,
Robert Myron Fox,
Francis Fair Gillen,
Ernest Payson Goodrich,
Archie Lee 11arris,


Howard B. Merrick,
Claude George Newton,
Edward Hawks Ravenscroft,
Clarence Webster Raynor,
Herlert Lafayette Russell,
Frank Noble Savage,
Iloyd Bown Smith.
John Frederick Streib,
I-loward Platt Treadway,
Sutton Van Pelt,


I 9


MASTER OF SCIENCE.
John Harold Montgomery, B.S.,    Clarence George Wrentmore, B.S. 2


CIVIL ENGINEER.
Will Hazen Boughton, B.S.,    Minott Eugene Porter, B.S.  2 —58


DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY.
DOCTOR OF MEDICINE.


John William Amesse,
William Richardson Bagley,
Howard Bigelow Baker, B.S.,
Mich. Agricultural College,
Frederick Amos Baldwin,
Thomas Stone Burr, A.B., Bowd(oin
College,
Ellen Rose Canney,
Charles Arthur Cattermole,
Loretta Katherine Cavanaugh,
Carrie Simpson Coleman,
Clarendon James Combs,
Norton Dusenbury Coons,
Alexander Corpron,
John Martin Craig,
Kate Louise Crawford,
Samuel Conway Crow,
Thomas Levi Dagg,
Lydia Maria Adams DeWitt,
Hugh William Dicken,
Fred Strayer Diefendorf,
Victor Charles Doherty,
Fannie Almara I)unn,


Arthur Ernest Gale,
Henry Bennett Gammon, A.B.,
Clarence Allen Good,
Newton Henry Greenman,
Fred Hopkins Harris,
Corydon Ford Heard,
Rhoda Grace Hendrick,
Robert Stephenson Ingersoll,
William S. Jackson,
Andreas Johannes,
Joseph Alphonsis Kelly,
Mark Stevens Knapp, B.S.,
Will Mac Lake,
Solomon S. Lee,
Wilmer Sanford Lehman,
William James Little, A.B.,
Hastings College,
George Munroe Livingston.
Nelson Ferguson McClinton,
Jesse Krekore Marden, A.B.,
Dairtmaouth College,
William August Mogk, A.B.,
Joseph Robert Mountain,




JUNE MEETIAG, i898.


245


Mary Josephine Nachtrieb,
May Fonda Nadeau,
Horace Newhart, A.B., Dartmozuth
College,
George Henry Norris,
Albert Patrick O'Leary,
James Willis Parker, A.B.,
Olive Grace Perry,
Ernest Reginald Pike,
Arthur David Pollock,
Joseph Crocket Scarborough,
Annie M\argaret Stevens.
Abraham Franklin Strickler,
Archie A(delbert Swinton, B.S.,
Olivet College,


Sharon John Thorns,
Christian van der Veen,
Thomas Van Urk,
Ernest Maxwell Vardon,
John Oloff von Zellen,
Walter Miller Warren,
Mary Wetmore.
Mary Blanche White,
Charles I lenry Williams, P11.1.,
Adr'ianz Colle-e, Ph.C.,
Robert Dwight Wilson,
Ieroy John \Wisman,
Walter John Wright,
Alois I.awrence Ziliak,
Joseph Edward Ziliak.


DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
BACHELOR OF LAWS.


Merrie Ioover Abbott,
Charles Wallace Adams, A.M.,
Earl Belmont Adams,
John Quincy Adams, B.L.,
Harvey Francis Ake, B.S., Alount
Union College,
Paul Young Albriglt,
Frank Dale Allen,
Louis Carl Anderson,
Mark Seeley Andrews,
Duane Darrow Arnold,
Alatau Leonard Charles Atkinson,
Elisha Avery Baker,
George Franklin Barr,
Charles Robb Barrow, B.S.,
Natwional Normal University,
Michael John Barry,
Edwin Southworth Bartlett,
George Herbert Batcheler,
James J. Bell, Jr.,
Emanuel Teichner Berger, LL.B.,
Detroit College of Law,
William Romine Blackburn,
Jacob Moore Blake,
Ozro Seth Blanchard,
Peter Jacob Blosser,


I lenry Herman Bodenstab,
Clayton Sweet Boice,
Ralph Raymond Bowdle,
James Roy Boyd,
Samuel George Braudy,
George Clement Brown, A.B.,
Nor-thernz Indiana Nor. Schi.,
Leo IaSalle Brunhild,
Edmund David Burke,
Edward Ernest l3urkhardt,
Francis Marion Byam,
Grace IIaines Carleton,
Charles Austin Carter,
James Henry Casselman,
Franklin Whitmore' Chadbourne,
James Franklin Charles,
James Ferson Clark,
William John Collum,
Augustine Fraicis Connolly,
Charles Goldsmith Cook, A.B.,
Arthur Melvin Cbx, A.B., State
College of Kentucky,
Arnold Lyman Davis, A.B.,
University of Soulgt  Dakota,
HIugo Edgar Dieterichs,
Mortimer Adolph Dittenhoefer,




246


JUN2V E MEETING, 1898.


James Sylvester Doyle, A.B., Detroit College, LL.B., Detroit
College of Law,
Charles Engelhard,
Joseph Hyrum Erickson,
A. Burdette Evans,
William Henry Feindt, Jr.,
George Nicholas Fell,
George Calvin Finfrock,
George Forest Firestone,
Frederick Fischer, B.S., Western
Normal College,
Daniel Webster Fishell,
Louis Jesse Fletcher,
Christopher C. Fouch, Jr.,
George Roy Fox,
Frederick Joseph French,
Eugene Paul Gailey,
Eugene L. Geismer,
Thomas Henry George,
Edward Ellis Gilbert,
Harry Ralph Goldman,
Luman Webster Goodenough, B.L.
Edwin Howard Gordon, A.B.,
Macalister College,
George Budd Gould,
Ziba Kent Graham,
Fred Warren Green,
Charles Edward Greenwald,
Boone Gross,
Eugene Edgar Grumbine,
George Christian Hansen, B.S.,
Ohio Normal University,
Ephraim Hanson,
George Roscoe Iarper,
Hugh HIuse Hart,
Samuel Brush Haskin, A.M.,
Baker University,
Lewis Hunter Hlays,
Robert Healy,
William Briggs Hice,
Byron Pardon Hicks,
William Boughton Hile,
James Henry Hill,
Edward Everett Hindman, A.B.,
Indiana University,
Rupert Holland,
William Andrew Holzheimer,
W\illiam Truman Hosner,


Eugene Patrick Hourihan,
Hobart Birney Hoyt, A.B.,
John Robert Hudson, LL.B.,
Deetroit College of Law,
Otis Huff,
Stephen Johnson Humeston,
Walter Guthrie Hurd,
Wilbur Edson Hurlburt, M.S.,
Norwich University,
Edward Franklin Irwin,
Theo T. Jacobs,
Benjamin Jacobson,
James Daly Jerome,
Robert Nelson Johnson,
George William Jones, Jr.,
William Kaspar, Jr.,
Cornelius Francis Kelley,
Alfred Silverthorn Kepner,
William Thomas Kidd,
William Duncan Kilpatrick,
George Kingsley, Jr.,
Isaac Newton Kinney,,Arthur Jay Lacy, LL.B., Northern
Indiana College of Law,
James Oliver Laing,
James Thomas Lawler,
Louis Lee Legg,
Charles Clinton Lones, Ph.B.,
Mount Union College,
Oliver Allen Ludlow,
Andrew J. Lynd,
Thomas Edward McBride,
George Percy McCallum,
William Sterling McCluskey,
James Gulliford MIcConkey,
Hugh Lawson McElderry, A.B.,
Emery and Henry College,
Glenn Sharp Mack,
Gifford Brown McKay,
Arthur Horace McLain,
Iester Elmer Maher,
William Henry Martin,
Frank Gray Mason,
Thomas Gilbert Mays,
Fred Winchester Mears, A.B.,
Brown University,
James Alexander Melville,
Harry J. Mercer,
Conrad Miller,




JUNE ME~ETING, i898.


247


Craig Carlton Miller, A.B., Williams College,
Wade Millis,
George Arthur Mitchell,
Herbert Allen Moore,
Edward Ray Nadelhoffer,
Samuel Frederick Nichols,
John Henry Notley,
Michael Hubert O'Brien, A.B.,
Detroit College, LL.B., Detroit
College of Law,
Patrick Henry O'Donnell,
Charles Mark Owen,
Walter Ewing Oxtoby,
Lawrence Shearman Page,
Don Frederick Pagelsen,
Allen Brooks Parker,
Earl Peters,
Matthias Bovee Pittman, Jr.,
Rufus Percival Ranney,
Alexander McCall Rea,
John Francis Rice,
Frank Prather Sadler, A.B.,
J. Sterling St. John, B.L.,
Harry Frederick Salot,
Frank R. Sanders,
Thomas Philip Schmidt,
Otto John Schultz,
Wallace Dutton Scott,
Jeremiah Timothy Shea,
Edwin Rucker Sheetz,
Samuel Leroy Sheetz,
Dwight Cutler Sheldon,
Howard Ion Shepherd,
Truman William Shields,


David Emanuel Sites,
Harry Bowne Skillman,
Logan A. Snook,
Errol Henry Spicer,
Francis Edward Stevens,
Eva Stevenson,
Alexander Hamilton Stewart,
LL.B., Detroit College of Law,
Edwin Humes Stinemeyer,
John Byron Stockdale,
Frederick William Stolz,
Carl Theodore Storm,
William Ellis Stowe,
George Louis Sutter, B.S., Geneva
College,
Edward Thomas Taggart,
Stewart Laurence Tatum,
Charles Edward Theobald,
Lewis Laverne Thompson,
Edward Joseph Tisdale,
Wellington Samuel Towner,
Iwight Joseph Turner,
August John Waffen,
Rufus Lee Weaver, B.S., State
College of Kentucky,
Perry Webster,
Wellington Jay Wetherbee,
Archie King Wheeler,
Lloyd Charles Whitman, A.B.,
George Ienry Wilkes,
John Llewellyn Willoughby,
Ralph Emerson Wisner,
Orestes Humphrey Wright,
Wesley John Wuerfel,
Bayard Wyman,


Edward William Young.


I96


MASTER OF LAWS.
Clarence William Aird, LL.B.,    Harry Yershelle Freedman, LL.B.,
Detroit College of Law, LL.B.,   Oregon Univ., LL.B.,
Thomas Albert Berkebile, LL.B.,  Bertran Edward Nussbaum, LL.B.
4-200




248


JUNE AIEETING, i89.
SCHOOL OF PHARMACY.
PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST.


Carl J. Biehl,
Walter Henry Blome,
John Asa Coram,
Aim6e Coulter,
Harry Edwin Douglas,
Charles Dwight Goff,
Oscar William Gorenflo,
Mark Butcher Hawes,
Bert Leroy Hayden,


William Kremers,
Philip Schaupner,
Edgar Schiller,
Henry Phillip Schmidt,
Caroline Barbara Service,
Leonard Short,
Charles Franklin Watkins,
William Wilson, Jr.,
Sam Herman Zimmerman.


I 8


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
(IN PHARMACY.)


Clarence Henry Baum, Ph.C.,


Alraham Van Zwaluwenburg, Ph.C.
2-20


HOMCEOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE.
DOCTOR OF MEDICINE.


John Newton Babcock,
Joseph Harris Ball,
Raymond Alfred Clifford,
Ernest Bigelow Maynard,
Charles Augustus Montague,


Charles Armand Rabethge, M.D.,
Jefferson Aedzical College,
Clarence Augustus Schimansky,
Samuel Porter Tuttle,
Marion Wells.


9


COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY.
DOCTOR OF DENTAL SURGERY.


Roy Archbold,
Alfred Baldwin,
Richard E. Bloomer,
Walter Herbert Bowman,
Lyman Smith Brown,
Francis Charles Castell,
Wesley Alonzo Chamberlain,
John Francis Conley,
Joseph Trower Davies, M.D.,
James Roy Davis,
James Barnard Doyle,
Robert Norman Forbes,


Percy Robert Glass,
Claude Charles Goodes,
Richard Bertram Hamilton,
Milton J. Hardy,
Harold Martin Herron,
Robert Brown Howell,
Bessie Hutchinson,
Ulysses Simpson Jeffs,
George Norman Kimball,
Alexander H. Kinmond,
Mark Anthony Kroupa,
Herbert Edgar Lehr,




JUNE M EETIAN;G, i898.


249


Frederick John -loward Leland,
D.D.S., Univ. of Tennessee,
James McMillan Loudon,
Chalmers J. Lyons,
Harry Brown McMillan,
Edwin Kirkhuff Medler,
Stephen A. Douglass Merchant,
Fred Colonel Miller,
James Weston Minerd,
Guy Raymond Palmer,
Leslie Ward Platt,
Lester George Platt,
Thomas Crompton Reid,
John Martin Rich,
Claude Burns Roe,


Ralph Jay Roper,
John Henry Setzler,
Arthur Byron Snow,
Joseph Bishop Stewart,
John Howard Stofflet,
Arthur Milton Sweet,
)aniel Michael Thompson,
Fred Giles Titus,
Thomas Budd Van Horne,
Harry Melville Viel,
Benjamin Franklin Vosburgh,
Philip Ernest W\augh,
Oliver Wilson White,
Benjamin Wolf, D.D.S., Ohio
Dental College,


Lewis Denison Zinke.


53


DOCTOR OF DENTAL SCIENCE.
Thomas Edward Carmody, D).).S., Dessie Brown Robertson, I.D.S.
2-55


Total Number of Candidates, 


674


On the recommendation of the Homoeopathic Faculty,
and on motion of regent Cook, the degree of Doctor of Medicine was conferred upon Oscar R. Long, M.D., of Ionia.
Regent Cocker presented and read the resignation of
Instructor Charles H. Gray, which was accepted.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Norman King McInnis
was appointed Assistant in English for one year, salary $300,
by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Kiefer presented the request of the Director of
the Chemical Laboratory, asking that Instructor Gomberg be
given the title of Assistant Professor of Organic Chemistry,
without increase of salary. The request was denied.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Mr. Frederick A. Baldwin
was appointed Assistant to the Professor of the Theory and
Practice of Medicine for one year, at a salary of $200, to take
the place of C. D. Silver who did not accept appointment.
Regent Kiefer moved that the following appointments be
made in the University Hospital:
Miss May Miller, Directress of the Training School, salary $60 per
month.
Charles B. Gauss, M.D., House Surgeon, salary $300.
Will McLake, M.D., House Physician, salary $200.




250              JUNE MEETIXNG, i898.
The appointments were made by the full vote of the
Board.
On motion of Regent Lawton the President was requested
to transmit the thanks of the Board to the Hon. J. M. B. Sill,
United States Minister to Korea, for a collection of animal
skins, specimens, and curios sent to the Museum of the University.
On motion of Regent Cook the Homoeopathic Faculty
were requested to recommend a proper person for superintendent of the Homoeopathic Hospital at their earliest convenience.
Regent Fletcher moved that $i80 be appropriated for the
purchase of a machine for moving trees, and $48 for the purchase of a sprinkler.  A call vote being taken resulted as
follows:
Ayes-Regents Cook. Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, Cocker, and Lawton.
Nays-None.
On motion Regent Cook was requested to ascertain the
cost of wood ashes per car load for use on the campus, and
report at the next meeting of the Board.
On motion of Regent Cook the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds was instructed to have the water from the
campus well analyzed.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the salary of Assistant
Engineer A. H. Thomas was made $700 from the time he took
charge of the lighting plant at the Hospitals.
On motion of Regent Cook the Board took a recess until
2 o'clock p. M.
AFTERNOON       SESSION.
On motion of Regent Cook it was voted that the Librarian be allowed to expend $50 in the purchase of book braces,
and that the amount be charged to the budget fund of the
Library for current expenses next year.
Professor Kelsey presented a bill of $9.5o for electrotypes
of the arch of Trajan which the Board allowed and ordered




JUNE MILE TING, i898.


251


that the amount be charged to the budget fund of the Latin
department for next year.  The vote was as follows:
Ayes —Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Farr, Cocker, and Lawton.
Nays-Regent Fletcher.
On motion of Regent Cook the Board went into executive session on the special order.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Secretary was directed
to make a contract with the Pittmans & Dean Company of
Detroit for the University supply of coal for the ensuing year
at $2.IO per ton for screened lump coal from their Riverside
mine, delivered on board of cars in Ann Arbor.
On motion of Regent Kiefer the salary of Charles L. Bliss,
B.S., Assistant in Physiological Chemistry, was made $400 by
a full vote of the Board.
Professor Carhart stated that last year he placed an order
in Germany for apparatus amounting to $400.      The goods
did not arrive in time to be paid out of that year's budget and
$763 was turned back into the General Fund.  This bill is now
charged to the budget of the present year showing an overdraft
of $150. He asked the Board to cancel the overdraft, which
was done by the following vote:
Ayes —Regents Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, Cocker, and Lawton.
Nays —Regent Cook.
Regent Dean submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
WHEREAS, The Board adheres to the views heretofore expressed
upon compulsory work in the gymnasium; therefore,
Resolved, That work in the gymnasium be compulsory with the Freshman Class of the Literary and Engineering Departments after October Ist
next. And the Deans of the respective departments and the Director of
the Gymnasium will make arrangements for the carrying out of this resolution.
Professor Reighard asked for and obtained permission to
take certain books and instruments to Put-in-Bay, Ohio, to be
used during the months of July and August next in scientific
work, to be carried on under his direction, under the auspices
of the United States Fish Commission.    He makes himself
personally responsible for the return of the property in good




252


JUNTE AMEETING, 1898.


condition, or for any loss or damage that may result to it, as
well as for all cost of packing or transportation.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Mr. Keene Fitzpatrick was
offered, by unanimous vote, the Directorship of the Gymnasiur for one year at a salary of $2,000; his title to be Acting Director of the Gymnasium.
On motion of Regent Cook, it was voted to postpone
the erection of an addition to the Library building for the
present.
Regent Cocker presented and read the following communication from    Professor A. C. Angell, and his resignation
was accepted by the Board.
To THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIIVEsRSITY OF
MICHIGAN:
GENTLEMEN-I hereby tender my resignation as Professor of Law in
the University, to take effect at the beginning of the next college year.
I find that the work of teacher in the Law Department, in addition
to my work as a practicing lawyer, is more than I can properly do. For
two or three years past I have been more and more conscious of this,
and have continued to teach against my own judgment at the earnest wish
of the Dean of the Department. In asking leave, at the end of five years'
service, to retire from the Faculty, I beg to express my appreciation of the
consideration with which I have always been treated by all officers of the
University, as well as my colleagues in the Law Faculty.
Very respectfully yours,
ALEXIS C. ANGELL.
On motion of Regent Cook, the President was authorized
to fill the vacancy in the Law Department caused by the resignation of Instructor Thomas W. Hughes, by the full vote of
the Board.
On motion of Regent Dean, Robert Clark Stevens, A.B.,
B. S., was appointed Instructor in Mechanical Engineering for
one year, salary $900, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, Cocker, and
Lawton.
Nays-None.


On motion, the Board took a recess until 7:30 o'clock p. M.




JUNE MEETING, 8 9S8.


253


EVENING      SESSION.
The Board re-assembled at 7:30 P. M.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Messrs. Spier and Rohn,
architects, were directed to prepare plans and specifications
for a new roof on the Main Building.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the schedule of repairs
submitted by the Chairman of the Committee on Buildings
and Grounds was approved, and the Board ordered the work
to be done during the summer vacation, by a full vote.
On motion of Regent Dean, the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds was directed to make such repairs of the
plumbing in the gymnasium as he shall find to be necessary,
under the direction of the Committee on Buildings and
Grounds.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That all annual or permanent appointments be made by
the Board of Regents, but that the Auditing Board may make such temporary appointments as occasion may require; but such appointments shall be
reported to the Board of Regents for their approval, and that daily laborers may be appointed by the Superintendent of Grounds, with the approval
of the Auditing Board.
Regent Cocker moved that $6oo be appropriated for advertising in the Alumnus, to be paid in four quarterly payments. A call vote being taken, resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, Cocker, and
Lawton.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Cook, the Board adjourned to Io
o'clock Wednesday morning.
WEDNESDAY MORNING.
The Board re-assembled at io o'clock A. M., Regent Butterfield having arrived.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Messrs. Spier and Rohn,
architects, were allowed $400 on account of plans and specifi



254


JUNE MIEE~TING, 1808.


cations for the new Law Building, by the full vote of the
Board.
Regent Fletcher moved that an appropriation of $500 be
made for the purchase of a water heater for the gymnasium.
It was so ordered as follows:
Ayes-Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, Farr, and
Cocker.
Nayes-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds was directed to overhaul the heating
pipes in the Gymnasium, and put the same in good order.
On motion of Regent Kiefer the Board went into
executive session.
The Board had a conference with Professor Hall and
Instructor Townley on matters relating to the work in astronomy.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, S. D. Townley, Sc.D., was
reappointed Instructor in Astronomy for one year at a salary
of $900, by a full vote of the Board.
The Board then took a recess until 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
On motion of Regent Kiefer Mr. Clarence J. Lyons was
appointed Quiz Master in the Dental Department for one
year without salary.
B. F. Sturtevant & Company, of Chicago, submitted plans
and specifications for the heating and ventilation of the Law
Building. After some changes in the details, the Secretary
was directed to make contract in the name of the Board with
the Sturtevant Co. for the complete plant, the compensation
to be $6,030. The vote was as follows:
Ayes —Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, Farr, and
Cocker.
Nays —None.
On motion of Regent Lawton the Secretary was authorized to loan to the Physical Laboratory two cases from the
Museum.




JUNE MIEETING, i898.


255


Henry Carew & Co., contractors, of Detroit, submitted a
proposition to build the addition to the Book Room of the
General Library, exclusive of the book racks, according to the
plans and specifications for the sum of $13,450. On motion
of Regent Fletcher the proposition was accepted and the
Secretary was directed to enter into contract in the name of
the lBoard, and to determine the amount of bonds to be
required.
The motion of Regent Fletcher was carried unanimously.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Instructor Perry F. Tiowbridge was granted leave of absence for the next college year
for the purpose of going abroad for study, his salary to lapse
during his absence.
On motion of Regent Kiefer Archibald Campbell, Ph.B.,
was appointed Instructor in Organic Chemistry and Accountant in the Chemical Labratory for one year, to take the place
of Mr. Trowbridge who will be away on leave of absence, the
salary to be $900, and Mr. Arthur A. Nivling, Ph.C., was
appointed Assistant in Qualitative Chemistry in place of Archibald Campbell, transferred, at a salary of $200.
The following was the vote on Regent Kiefer's notion
Aves —Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Buiterfeld, Farr, and
Cocker.
Nays — None.
On motion of Regent Dean it was voted that the Building Committee be charged with the duty of purchasing the
necessary furniture for the Law Building, constructing such
book cases as may be required, and ceiling such rooms in the
building as are not provided for in the contract.
On motion of Regent Dean it was voted that when the
Board adjourns it adjourn to meet on Saturday, July gth, at To
o'clock A. M.
A  comnunication was received from    Dr. Eliza M.
Mosher, including plans and specifications for finishing the
Barbour Gymnasium, which was on motion laid on the table.
The Executive Committee made a report recommending
that the degree of Bachelor of Arts be conferred upon Charles
Quarles as of the Class of I868.




256              JUNE MEETING, i898.
Also that the following honorary degrees be conferred:
MASTER OF ARTS.
Stanley Waterloo, student in the University, I865-I868;
Journalist.
DOCTOR OF LAWS.
William  Rufus Day, B.S., Class of I870; United States
Secretary of State.
Abraham Jacobi, Professor of the Diseases of Children in
the New York College of Physicians and Surgeons.
The degrees were conferred as recommended by the Committee.
On motion the Board adjourned to Thursday morning at
9 o'clock.
MORNING SESSION.
No quorum being present the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




JULY MEETING.
[July 9.]
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, R
July 9, i898.
The Board assembled in the Russell House in the city of
Detroit at ro o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, Cocker, and
Lawton.
Absent, Regents Cook, Dean, and Butterfield.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Secretary was instructed to advertise for bids for putting a new roof on the Main
Building on the Campus, the bids to be submitted on or
before July 20.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the President was
requested to transmit to Mr. John Canfield, of Manistee, the
cordial thanks of the Board for his generous gift of $5,ooo, to
aid in the completion of the Barbour Gymnasium.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the use of University Hall
was granted to the Women's League in which to hold an
entertainment, on a date to be named, during the next college
year.
Regent Fletcher moved that Dr. E. B. Maynard be
appointed Superintendent of the Homceopathic Hospital for
one year at a salary of $600, that Dr. S. P. Tuttle be appointed House Physician in the Homceopathic Hospital, and
that Mr. Quincy A. Turner be appointed Night Watchman on
the Campus.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes —Regents Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, Cocker, and Lawton.
Nays —None.




JULY MEEATING, 8098.              258
On motion of Regent Farr the Chairman of the Finance
Committee was requested to correspond with Mr. Daniel H.
Smith, executor of the estate of the late Elizabeth H. Bates,
and ascertain on what terms he would continue to look after
the interests of the University in the said estate.
On motion the Board adjourned to meet at the Russell
House in the city of Detroit on Thursday, July 2 st, at o
o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




JULY MEETING.
[July 21.]
UNIVERSITY OF IICHIGAN, f
July 2I, 1898.
The Board assembled at the Russell House in the City of
Detroit at o1 o'clock A. AI.
Present, Regents Cook, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, Cocker,
and Lawton.
Absent, Regents Dean and Butterfield.
On motion of Regent Cocker Regent Farr was called to
the Chair.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the reading of the minutes of the two preceding meetings was deferred until the next
meeting.
On motion of Regent Farr Judge A. V. McAlvay was appointed Professor in the Law Department on half time, for
one year at a salary of $rooo, and John R. Rood was appointed Instructor in the Law Department for one year at a salary
of $6oo, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Cook, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, Cocker, and Lawton.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Cocker it was voted that Professor
Geo. A. Hench have general supervision of the Department of
Romance Languages until the vacancy caused by the death of
Professor E. L. Walter can be filled by the Board.
On motion of Regent Cocker the Treasurer was directed
to turn over to the Hon. Levi L. Barbour all mortgages, notes,
and subscription lists in his possession belonging to the Williams Fund, Mr. Barbour having agreed to take full charge of
the account and carefully to look after all the obligations
belonging to the Fund for such reasonable compensation as




260


60  }JULY ill/t AT/VC, I SoS.


shall be satisfactory to the Board of Regents, such compensation to be paid to Mr. Barbour at the end of each year.
The motion was carried by the unanimous vote of the
Board.
On motion of Regent Cocker Mr. Shirley W. Smith, B.L.,
was appointed Instructor in English for one year in place of
Mr. Charles H. Gray resigned, at a salary of $600, by the full
vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Kiefer the Secretary was authorized
to purchase the necessary seating for the Laboratory in the
Dental Department, by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Fletcher submitted the proposition of A. Hild &
Co., to put a new ceiling of Georgia pine in the large lecture
rooms of first and second floors of the Law Building, paneled
off by wood-encased beams, with 3-in. crown moulding around
panels and walls, and finish the same with one coat of liquid
filler and two coats of varnish, for the sum of $400.28.
The proposition was accepted by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Secretary was instructed
to pay the bill of Hodgson, Howard and Marks, of $46 for
closet hardware, and charge the same to John Scott, architect,
the goods being worthless on account of the error of architect
in giving the order.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the proposition of the
Detroit Electric Wiring & Repair Co., to wire the Law Building for the sum of $717, the work to be done and material
furnished according to the plans and specifications, was
accepted by a unanimous vote.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the B. F. Sturtevant Co.,
contractors for heating the Law Building, were allowed in
addition to the contract price of the work $I68 for eight traps
which the Board require them to put in, and $30 for connecting the steam pipes in the conduit, and that they be required to
use Jenks valves and the Johnson system in installing the plant.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Cook, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, Cocker, and Lawton.
Nays-None.


The Board took a recess until 2 o'clock p. iM.




JULY IEE T/NG,,808.


261


AFTERNOON       SESSION.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Secretary was directed
to make contract with the Variety Iron Works, of Cleveland,
for the structural iron work for the new roof of the Main
Building for the sum of $2300, the work to be in place within
sixty days. Payment to be made as follows: One-half within
two weeks after the delivery of the iron, and the balance two
weeks after the work is completed.
The vote was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Cook, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, Cocker, and Lawton.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher it was voted that the contract for completing the roof of the Main Building be deferred
until the I7th day of August, and that bids for doing the work
be received at that time.
On motion the Board adjourned to meet in Ann Arbor
on Wednesday, August 17, at io o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




AUGUST MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MIICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, AUGUST 17, I898. S
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Cook, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield,
Farr, Cocker, and Lawton.
Absent-Regent Dean.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Regent Farr was called
to the chair.
The Secretary read the minutes of the three preceding
meetings which were on motion approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry communications which had reached the President's desk were placed in the hands of appropriate
committees of the Board for consideration.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, Arthur G. Hall, B.
S., was re-appointed Instructor in Mathematics for three
years. Salary, $1,200.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the contract for placing
book cases in the Law Building according to plans and
specifications was awarded to Hertz & Hosbach Co., Detroit, for the sum of $423, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion the Board took a recess until 2 o'clock P. Mr.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
Thle Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. M., Regent Dean
being present.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the contract for doing
the plumbing and putting in the marble work in two
toilet rooms in the University Hospital was awarded to




264


A (UGUST MEE TING, i898.


Richard Walsh, of Detroit, for the sum of $1,695, by the
full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Auditing Board
were authorized to ask for bids, and award the contract
for plumbing two toilet rooms in the New Law Building,
by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Superintendent of
the University Hospital was requested to get bids on
laundry machinery aInd submit them at the next meeting
of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds was directed to place some wash
bowls in the basement of the University Hospital for tlhe
use of students.
On motion of Regent Farr thle Auditing Board were
authorized to purchase the necessary furniture for thie
Professors' rooms in the Law Building, by the full vote of
the Board.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the Auditing Bo()ard
were authorized to purcllase tle necessary,apparatus for
the Woman's Gymnasium to the amount of $208, plust the
freight, by the unanimous vote of the Board.
Regent Fletcher moved that tlhe sum   of $350 b)(
appropriated for the purchase of a team of horses, (wagoin,
and hlarness, for use on the University grounds.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-R-egents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, F.arr, Cocker, and Lawton.
Navs-None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Superinlt(lndent of
Buildings and Grounds was directed to grade thle soutl
side of the Athletic Grounds, and put it in good shla)e for
the use of the Association.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the Auditing Board
were authorized to fill in the floor of the addition to the
foundry room with the clay and moulding sand required
for the work, at cost not exceeding $50. by the full vote
of the Board.




AUG UST MEETING, i898.


265


Qn motion of Regent Kiefer, Corydon F. Heard, M. D.,
was appointed Assistant to the Professor of Ophthalmic
and Aural Surgery in the Department of Medicine and
Surgery for one year without salary.
The Executor of the Estate of the late Dr. Flizabeth
H. Bates having notified the Board that the heirs had
given notice that they proposed to contest the will, Regent
Cook mioved that Regents Cocker and Farr go at once to
Port Chester, New York, and take such action as they
shall deem necessary to protect the interests of the University in the said estate.
Regent Butterfield moved as an amendment that the
matter be placed in the hands of Benton Hanchett, of
Saginaw, with instructions to begin at once an investigation of the New York statutes bearing on the case, as there
was no time to loose, and to make all possible preparation to defend the interests of the University in the
Courts.
A call vote was taken on Regent Butterfield's amendment with the following results:
Ayes-Regents Dean, Butterfield, and Iawton.
Nays-Regents Cook, Kiefer, and Farr.
Not Voting-Regents Fletcher and Cocker.
The amendment was declared lost and Regelnt Cook
then witildrew thle origilnal motion.
Regent Butterfield renewed his motion to place the
case in the hands of Benton Hanchett alnd that Regents
Cocker and Farr be requested to go to Port Chlester and
secure all the detailed information possile bearing oil the
case and colmmunicate tile same to Mr. Hanchlett.
After considerable discussion a call vote was taken
which resulted as follows:
Ayes —Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Cocker, and Lawton.
Nays —Regent Farr.
Not Voting —Regent Fletcher.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Architects Spier &
Rohn were allowed $300, on account of plans and specifi



266


A UGUST MEETING, 1898.


cations for the Law Building, by the full vote of the
Board.
Regent Fletcher submitted the bid of Henry Carew &
Co., to put Georgia pine ceiling and wainscoting in the
large lecture rooms on the first and second floors of the
Law Building; the wainscoting to be five feet high; also
to put ceilings in all the rooms on the first, second, and
third floors not provided for in their original contract, for
the sum of $1,541.52.  The bid was accepted, and the
work awarded to Henry Carew & Co., by the full vote of
the Board.
Regent Fletcher presented and read the proposition
of N. J. Rogers, of Detroit, to furnish all material and
labor necessary to complete, according to the plans and
specifications prepared by Spier & Rohn, Architects, the
remodeling of the roof and ceiling of the Auditorium in
University Hall, (except the steel and wrought iron work
in trusses and columns), for the sum of $8,580.
Regent Fletcher moved that the contract be awarded
to Mr. Rogers. The vote was as follows:
Ayes —Regents Cook, 1)ean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, 'arr, Cocker, and Lawton.
Nays-None.
The Peninsular Engineering Co., of Detroit, being subcontractors for the structural steel work in the New Law
Building, gave notice that there was a balance due them
of $1,252.51 which the contractor had declined to pay; they
ask that the Board withhold the said sum of $1,252.51
from the next estimate given to said contractors, to protect
their claim. The Board directed the Secretary to make
answer that the Board had fully conmplied with the law by
taking an indemnity bond sufficiently large to protect the
material men on said work, and therefore tlhey must
decline to undertake the settlement of differences between
the contractor and his sub-contractors.
On motion Hugo P. Thieme, Ph.D., was appointed
Instructor in French for one year at a salary of $900, and
Charles A. Rabethge, M. D., was appointed Instructor in
the Gymnasium for one year at a salary of $1,000.




AUGUST MEETING, i898.                 267
A call vote resulted as follows:
Ayes —Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, Farr, Cocker, and Lawton.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer the Board aljourned to
Wednesday, October 19th, at 10 o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




SEPTEMBER MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, )
ANN ARBOR, SEPTEMBER 20, 1898. 5
The Board assembled in the room of the President at Io
o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr,
Cocker, and Lawton.
Absent, Regent Butterfield.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Kiefer, approved and ordered
printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the Board,
for consideration.
On motion of Regent Cocker the Finance Committee
were authorized to make a loan of $7,500 from the Williams
fund on property on Beecher street, in the city of Detroit,
owned by E. Wordell, and $4,300 to other parties in Detroit,,
provided the abstracts of titles are found to be satisfactory.
Regent Cocker presented and read the resignation of
S. D. Townley, Instructor in Astronomy, which was accepted.
Regent Cocker presented and read the following communication from Bryant Walker, Administrator for the C. L. Ford
estate.
DETROIT, M1ICHIGAN, Aug. 31, I898.
Treasurer, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Dear Sir.-Enclosed please find check for $I,ooo, to apply on the
legacy of the late Dr. C. L. Ford to the University. This sum, according to
my account, makes a total of $I7,500 which the University has received up
to this time on the Ford legacy, leaving a balance of $2,500 and some inter



270


SELPTEZ BER MEE TING,. S898.


est still to be paid. I have belonging to the Ford estate two mortgages
which I would be glad to transfer to the University to apply on this legacy.
These mortgages are on the two houses belonging to the Ford estate in Ann
Arbor, which were recently sold. The property on corner of Forest and
Washtenaw Avenues was sold to G. P. Coler, for $3,I00. Upon this there
is a mortgage of $I,400 representing the unpaid balance of the purchase
price, which is payable on or before July I, I899, with semi-annual interest
at 6%.
The house on corner of Forest and South University Avenues was
sold to Mrs. Jennie Voorhies for $3,000, $2,000 cash and a mortgage back
for $1,ooo, which is payable on or before July 12, I899, with semi-annual
interest at 6%. Both these mortgages are abundantly secured and would
be good investments for the University. If the Regents will accept these
mortgages, I am ready to pay the balance due on the legacy and close the
matter up.
Please bring the matter before the proper committee and let me know
what you will do, and oblige,
Yours truly,
(Signed) BRYANT WALKER, Admr.
On motion of Regent Cocker the Board           accepted  the
proposition of Mr. Walker to transfer to the University the
two mortgages mentioned       in  his  communication, and     the
Treasurer was authorized to receive them in partial payment
of the legacy of the late Dr. C. L. Ford to the University.
Regent Cocker moved that an appropriation of $I70 be
made for the purpose of revising and publishing a complete
catalogue of the Art collection. The vote was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, Cocker, and
Lawton.
Nays-None.
Regent Dean read the following communication from
Professor M. E. Cooley:
U. S. S. YOSEMITE,       }
LEAGUE ISLAND, PA., Sept. 8, 1898. 
The Honorable Board of Regents, University of Michigan:
Gentlemen. —I. I have been expecting to lay before you the plans of
the Navy Department respecting my services, but up to the present time
have had no word further than that for the present I am not to be detached.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1898.


271


2. In view of this I respectfully ask that my leave of absence be extended until I can report definitely. The ship is about to sail for Mole St.
Nicholas and will be gone about two weeks. Should I be detached on her
return I shall be with you October I.
3. It is possible the Department may requiremy services a little longer.
In this case I request that the Dean of the Engineering Department be
authorized to employ Mr. George B. Willcox, of Bay City, to help in the
work until I return.
Very respectfully,
MI. E. COOLEY,
Chief Engr. U. S. N.
On motion of Regent Dean the leave of absence of Professor Cooley was extended as requested, and the Dean of the
Engineering Department was authorized to employ Mr. (eo.
B. Willcox, of Bay City, to helip in the work until Professor
Cooley's return.
On motion, the Board took a recess until 2 o'clock p. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. I.
Regent Fletcher submitted the bids of three companies
to furnish machinery for the new laundry at University Hospital, and the Board directed that a contract be made with the
American Laundry Machinery Co., of Chicago, for all the
machinery called for in the specifications, except the sterilizer,
for the sum of $1,520; and the Auditing Board were authorized to purchase a sterilizer of the Boston Laundry Company
at a cost of $650. A call vote resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, Cocker, and Lawton.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the Auditing Board were
authorized to purchase a still for University Hospital at a cost
of $30, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Auditing Board were




272


'SEPTEIEBER -MEE TIVG, z8o8.


authorized to contract for window shades for the Law Building
by a unanimous vote.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Regent Farr was requested
to go to Grand Rapids and select furniture for the Regents'
new room.
On motion of Regent Cook, the Auditing Board were
requested to provide a case for filing papers in the Homceopathic Hospital.
On motion of Regent Cook, the Ladies' Guild of the
Homceopathic Department were given the use of University
Hall for the purpose of giving an entertainment at a date to
be named hereafter.
The duty of assigning rooms in University Buildings was
committed to the Auditing Board.
On motion of Regent Dean, the Board went into executive session and listened to a summary of the financial condition of the University presented by Professor Pettee, who was
charged with the duty of auditing the books of the Treasurer
and Secretary.
The Committee on the Parke, Davis & Company Fellowship, recommended Clifton H. Briggs, M.S., as the Parke,
Davis & Company Fellow for 1898-99, and the Board approved
their action.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, Bert W. Peet, M.S., was
appointed Assistant in General Chemistry for one year, in
place of Clifton H. Briggs promoted to the Parke, Davis & Co.
fellowship, salary $300. The appointment was made by a full
vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Kiefer the leave of absence granted
Dr. V. C. Vaughan to enter the service of the United States
was extended to enable him to complete the work assigned to
him by the War Department.
President Hutchins presented and read the following letters from Secretary of State, William R. Day, and Mr. Charles
Quarles.




SEPTEM7'iBEE' MIEETIANG, i898.              273
DEPARTMENT OF STATE, 
WASHINGTON, July I2, I898. 
Professor H. B. Hutchins, President University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Michigan:
My Dear Sir. —I was much gratified to receive your note of July 6th,
and beg to thank you and the University authorities for the high honor conferred upon me. Nothing could afford me more pleasure than this unsought
distinction and the terms in which you have been pleased to advise me of it
With high regard, I am,
Very truly yours,
WILLIAM R. DAY.
MILWAUKEE, WIS., July II, I898.
lion. Ui. B. Hutchins, Acting President University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
Dear Sir.-I have your favor of 6th inst., notifying me of the degree
granted me by the University.
I am exceedingly grateful for the favor conferred, and extend hearty
thanks to the Faculty and Board of Regents.
Yours very sincerely,
CIAS. QUARLES.
Regent Farr moved:
ist, That George DeWitt Harris be appointed ClerK of the
Practice Court in the Law Department for one year, at a salary
of $Ioo;
2d, That the degree of Bachelor of Laws be conferred
upon Benjamin Volcan Kohout, in accordance with the recommendation of the Law Faculty;
3d, That the Law Faculty be requested to report a plan
for some public exercises in commemoration of the completion and opening of the new      Law   Building.   The motion
was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, Cocker, and
Lawton.
Nays-None.
Regents Farr and Cocker who, at the request of the
Board, went to Port Chester, New York, to look after the
interests of the University in the Bates will case, submitted
the following report, which was accepted and ordered printed
in the minutes:




274


SEPTEMBER MVEETING, 89S8.


GRAND RAPIDS, Mich., Sept. 13, 1898.
GENTLEMEN OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
Mr. Hanchett having declined engagement in the matter of the will
of Miss Bates, Regent Cocker and myself went to New York to look the
matter up. We found the following state of facts:
Objection to the probate of the will was made by some second cousins
of Miss Bates. They objected to it upon two grounds: first, the incompetency of Miss Bates to make the will, and second, that the University could
not legally be made a devisee. The reasons for this second objection
were not given. We found the estate to amount to about $I60,ooo. About
$105,000 or $II0,000 is personal, and the balance in real estate. There
were some claims to be presented against the estate, one of $,00oo.oo as
a subscription to the Presbyterian Church of Port Chester, one of $5,ooo.oo
by her physician, and I think about $I,2oo.oo from a nurse.
The church matter is undoubtedly all right; the physician's bill is
questionable, and we advise a compromise. The physician told the executor that he had not intended to charge anything, but as the estate was
going to a Michigan college they might as well get all they could.
Wingate & Cullen, attorneys of New York City, had appeared for the
executor, and had filed a demand that the contestant specify why a devise
could not be made to the University, that is, for a bill of particulars. T'his
will be heard upon the g9th.
There can be no question, I think, of the competency of Miss Bates,
and there can be as little of the right of the University to take a devise
either under the laws of New York or this State. There is probably no
question but what the personal property may be considered outside the contest. Under the laws of the State of New York at the time of the death of
Miss Bates, second cousins could not take, as heirs, personal property.
The attorneys for the executor desired us to employ counsel for the
University. Miss Bates had two aunts who would, as heirs, take all personal property. Wingate & Cullen are attorneys for one of these heirs.
They do not intend to make a contest or to dispute the will, but their interests are against those of the University, and it was thought better to have
counsel of our own. We employed Chas. H. Otis, of Brooklyn. lie is
counsel for the Public Administrator of New York and an accomplished
lawyer. He is engaged upon one side of nearly all the will cases in New
York City. The retainer is $,000.00o, but we could not do better in New
York for a lawyer of his standing.
President Hutchins was with us in the city and visited Wingate &
Cullen, and also Otis, with us.  Very cordially yours,
GEO. A. FARR,
W. J. COCKER.




SEPT7'IIMBE3R MAIEE TING, 1898.


275


Regent Cook moved:
ist, That Dr. Oscar Leseure be granted leave of absence
for the time his services are required by the War Department,
and that the work of his chair be placed in the care of his
assistant, Dr. G. P. Cooley, and that the salary of Dr. Coolev
be paid by Dr. Leseure.
2d, That the proper certificates of graduation be granted
to Miss Lillian Peltier and Miss Bertha Bryant, they having
completed the course in the Training School for nurses in the
Homoeopathic Hospital.
3d, That the following goods be purchased by the Auditing Board for the use of the Homceopathic Hospital, and
charged to the budget fund of that department: Rubber
matting, to be placed in the corridors of the Hospital; one
sewing machine for the use of the Hospital; one medicine
chest to cost $5; one additional table for the dining room;
four hampers for clothes to cost $2 each; one blackboard for
the lecture rooms.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, Cocker, and
Lawton.
Nays —None.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Treasurer was directed to
send to Charles H. Otis, of Brooklyn, New York, one thousand
dollars as a retainer fee in the Bates will case, by the full vote
of-the Board.
The Board having decided to remove all the wooden
lateral trusses in the roof of the Main Building, Regent
Fletcher moved that the proposition of the Russel Wheel and
Iron Company to furnish the iron work required for eight
lateral trusses delivered in Ann Arbor for $225, be accepted,
and that the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds be
directed to furnish the contractor such other additional
material as may be necessary by reason of this change, and
that he also carry up the brick walls on the front of the building about five feet.




276


SEPTEMBER iMEE TINVG,,898.


The motion of Regent Fletcher was carried by the unanimous vote of the Board.
Regent Farr submitted the following resolution which
was adopted unanimously:
The thanks of the Board are hereby tendered to Acting President 1-.
B. Hutchins for his able administration during the absence of President
Angll, and to him as much as to any man is due the success of the University during the past year. Ile returns to his duties as Dean of the Law
Department with the best wishes and the hearty commendation of the Board.
On motion of Regent Cook an appropriation of $125
from the General Fund was made for the purpose of purchasing
a cooking range for the Honceopathic Hospital, by the full
vote of the Board.
The President read the following letter from the Hon.
Stanley Waterloo:
CHICAGO, JULY 9, I898.
PROFESSOR IL. B. IHITCHINS, PRESIDENT UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN:
DEAR SIR:-1 do not think I have been more gratified in my life than
by the gracious and kindly act of my old University. Nothing could more
inspire me to effort in the future than such recognition from such a source.
Allow me to thank you very earnestly and, through you, the Board of
Regents. I place a value on the honor which I cannot readily express.
Faithfully yours,
STANLEY WATERLOO.
The Executive Committee were authorized to appoint an
Instructor in the Engineering Department, and to take such
action as they shall deem   necessary in regard to filling the
place made vacant by the resignation of Instructor Townley.
On motion of Regent Farr the Board adjourned to
Wednesday, October 19, at o1 o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




OCTOBER MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, /
ANN ARBOR, OCTOBER 18, 1898. i
The Board assembled in the room of the President at io
o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, and
Lawton.
Absent, Regents Butterfield and Cocker.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Lawton, approved and ordered
printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the Board
for consideration.
The Executive Committee reported as follows, ahd the
Board approved their action:
The Executive Committee beg leave to report that Mr. Faig, instructor in mechanical engineering, having resigned we found it necessary to
make an appointment in his place. After careful search we selected
George L. Grimes, and appointed him for one year, at a salary of $700.
JAMES B. ANGELI..
P. N. COOK.
The Librarian presented and read his annual report,
which was accepted and ordered printed in the minutes, and
Ioo copies were ordered to be furnished the Librarian for exchange with other libraries.
The following is his report:




27S


()(CTO71E' CJ/i' /IY.(,', 7 /SS.


LIBRARIAN'S REPORT', 1897-98.
TO THLE I NRA II.IR, T'1  I O T1  (AR IO F R) EG ENT'S:
GENTIIEMEN. ---lThe following rel)ort in regard to tlie libraries of tile;niversity covers the twelve months from Julyi I, 897, to June 30, I898.
and is made in accordance with a requirement of the Iaws and By-l,aws.
There were in all of the libraries, June 30, 1898, 122,962 volumes,
I8,461 pamphlets,* and 1,299 maps. Of these there were in the General
Library, 98,222 volumes, 16,952 pamphtlets and 1,299 maps; in tlie I aw
Library, 14,609 volumes; in tile Medical library, 8,630 volumnes anld 1,49(
pamphlets; in the I ibrary of tle I loollopathic Medical College, 665
volumes and 10 pamtphlets; and in tlhe,ilbrarv of tle I)ental College, 836
volumes.
During the year, 740 periodicals were regularly received, as follows:
In the General I,ibrary, 550; in the Medical,ibrary, I45; in the Iaw
Library, 12; in the Library of the lHomceopathic Medical College. 20; and
in the Library of the Dental College, 13. Eleven daily and 17 weekly
newspapers are also regularly received. These latter are not intended for
current use, Ibut for binding and preservation.
The amount appropriated by your honorable hody for the I)urchase ()f
books during thle year was  5,oo000.00. In the division made li\ you of this
sum tle differelt libraries received as follows:
General Library,..S o, 500
Medical Library,..............    2500
Law Library,...     I,500
Homceopathic Library,...                                250
Dental Library,..                                            250
$I 5,oo
TILE GENERAL LIBRARY.
ADDITIONS.-The additions to the General l.ibrary for the year were
7,110 volumes, I,o61 pamphlets, and 24 maps. (f these 1,941 volumes
and 591 pamphlets were given, and 5,169 volumes and 470 pamphlets were
bought.
EXPENDITURES. —The total amount of bills certified to by me for this
library, and pertaining to the book appropriation, was $IO,820.02. (f this
sum $9,562.88 were paid for books, pamphlets, and periodicals receive(l
irregularly, and $1,257.I4 were for annual subscriptions to periodicals.
Certain miscellaneous expenses, incurred for catalogue cards, readers'
slips, a typewriter, etc., and paid from the contingent fund of the library,
amounted to $I44.32. The attendants in the cloak room  vere also paid
from this fund, as follows:: In former reports 1 have said unboZunz pamnphlets.  11n this,report a b6o0tu
pamphlet is counted as a volume, and this will be the case in fitture reports. Absence of
binding is signified by the word pfamlthlel.




O('CTO)LA'lF JIEE `7'ZG, iSgS.2T


2) -)


Day attendant, serving II hours daily for.nine months,:...  17.70
Evening attendant, serving 3 hours daily for nine months,.   64.98
Total,.............   236.68
IlMI'ORTANrT URCl(:AS1.S.,. — -Following are some of the more important
purchases of the year:
Publications of the St. Petersburg Academy.  135 vols.,...026.65
Journal des Economistes. 18i vols.,........                    5.oo
Journal de Pharmacie et de Chemie, Paris.  112 vols.,.45.00
Reeueil des HListoriens des Gaules et cle la France. 23 vols.,.   30.00
Larousse's Dictionnaire. 17 vols.,....       82.00
Philologus.  6   vols.,...........  2.o
Banker's Magazine. (,ondon.) 39 vols'.,....                  7.o
Zeitschrift f. deutsclien Philologie. 32 vols.,....      (7.62
Journal des Mathdmatiques 6eementaires et speciales. 35 vols.,.  40.00
Wagner's. Fliegende Hollander. (Orchestral score.)..,.77
Zeitschrift f. deutschen lUnterricht. 9 vols.,......         28.50
Huth Library. Ed. by Grosart. Large Paper. 29 vols.,..     I05.00
British Museum Catalogue. (As far as completed.)...     308.00
'he last two items were paid for from' the income of the Covl l und.
ENDOWMENT' FU'tN)S. —According to the Treasurer's report the condition of the Endowment Funds was as follows, July I, I898:
Ford-Messer Fund. (The full bequest is S20,000.)  Amount
paid  in  with  interest adde,........     5,001.28
Coyl Fund ($I0,ooo), with interest added,.                I0,990.92
(Gethe Fund ($2Io.00), with interest added,...       219.05
Orders, not to exceed $1,025.00 have been made on the income of
these funds.
SPECIAl. COI,.LECTIONS. ---The special collections, for the increase of
which provision is made, are the McMilIan Shakespeare librarv andl the
German-American Goethe Library.
The additions to the former were 288 volumes and 174 pamplhllets.
'The collection now consists of 4,642 volumes and I74 pamphlets. A coinsiderable number of the additions of the year were from the Free Public
Iibraries of 'Birmingham; England. A catalogue of the Shakespeare duplicates possessed by that library was received from Mr. Mullins, the librarian.
A list of such of these as we did nlot have was made out and sent to M\r.
McMillan who authorized their purchase. 'he cost was $S50, 'I'le matter
thus acquired was largely "oult f print " matter, and constitutes a most
valuable addition to our collection.
'The appropriation of $50.00 made by you last year for completing the
catalogue of Shlakesperiana was expended and the work brought down to
date.
Eight volumes were added to the Goethe Iibrary, which now numllers
948-volumes.




280


OCTOBEPR 1E XTIAG, 1898.


THE FELCH LIBRARY. ----he Felch Historical Library has been put
in order for use. Exclusive of duplicates, of which there are about 2,500,
it numbers 1,368 volumes.
On a former occasion I referred to the pamphlets in this collection as
numerous and valuable. (f these 174 were considered of sufficient importance to bind singly, and were by this operation raised to the dignity of
volumes. Six hundred and fifty were classified and bound together in 44
volumes.
The greater number of these pamphlets relate to American history,
and they constitute a most important addition to our collection on that subject. Indeed the preponderance of American history is not confined to the
pamphlet part, but is a feature of the collection as a whole. While this is
true, general history and travel have a representation in reputable editions
of the standard works. There are also a good many volumes of illustrated
books. There was a period, late in the last century and early in this one,
when it was the vogue to illustrate objects, and especially scenery, by steel
engravings. These were both drawn and executed by artists of reputation
and were usually published in elegant editions. The following will serve
as examples:
I. China: Its Scenery, Architecture, and Social llabits. 2 vols.
2. Syria: The Holy Land, Asia Minor, etc. 2 vols.
3. Shores and Islands of the Mediterranean.
4. The Gallery of British Engravings.
5. Views in Ireland.
Work of this character has been superseded by photography. It falls
into the category of Literary Annuals, and has the same relation to the art
of the period that the annuals have to its literature. Both are important
in a great library and these volumes of illustrations in the Felch collection
swell not a little our slender resources in this direction. I should also refer
to the fact that in this collection is found our first historical manuscript.
This is, "Journal of a tour to and fro overland from San Miguel de Orcasitas,
Sonora, to the Bay of San Francisco, California, in the years I775-6. By
Padre Fray Pedro Font: Neilson, script.: Monterey, Cal., June, I854."
This journal is one of the important authorities for the early history
of California. During Gov. Felch's residence there as Land Commissioner
a Catholic priest, in whose possession the original MS. was, made this copy
and presented it to him. The original is said to be lost.
This bequest is a piece of good fortune that we can never cease to be
grateful for. The books will not only do service as the hosts of students
come and go, but they will also permanently associate with the University,
as even his official connections cannot do, a name honored throughout the
state.
GIFTS. —In the matter of gifts we have as usual fared well, although
no collection of books has been received. The following seem worthy of
special mention:
From C. M. Burton, Esq., of Detroit, was received vol. 25 of the




OCTOBER MIEE TING, r898.


281


Stevens Facsimiles of Historical Manuscripts. This is an index volume and
completes the first series of the work, for the whole of which we are indebted
to Mr. Burton. It was when our resources were much more meagre than
now, and when acquisition of the work seemed impossible, that he was
appealed to. His hearty response will always be remembered.
The Duke of Loubat added the following to former gifts:
I. Hamy. Galerie Americaine du Musee d'ethnographie du Trocadero,
Part 2.
2. Il Manoocritto Mesicano Borgiana. A Facsimile made at the expense of the Duke of Loubat.
Miss Minnesota Neill in response to inquiries relative to certain of the
books of her father, Rev. Edward Neill, presented to the Library three
volumes and twenty-five fugitive pieces of his writings.
Leland H. Sabin, Esq., of Centreville, presented a number of earlI
volumes of the Ietroit Advertiser and Tribune and the Albany Argus — in
all II volumes.
Mrs. Morris added to the Morris Philosophical Library a set of the
Griggs Philosophical Classics, 8 vols., which had been edited by Professor
Morris.
From Hon. David Boyd, of Greeley, Colorado, was received a copy of
Hall's History of Colorado, 4 volumes. Mr. Boyd was a member of the
class of I866.
From the Baroness Burdett-Coutts was received a copy of "Women's
Mission," a large and elegant volume by various writers, and prepared for
the Columbian Exposition of I893.
The Ann Arbor Music Company presented seven volumes of Schirmer's
Collection of Operas.
President Angell turned over to the Library the papers of the Deep
Waterways Commission, of which he was a member. They consist of
considerable printed and typewritten matter, and maps.
Professor E. L. Walter gave books at various times during the year.
The whole number was 104 volumes.
I have referred to Mr. McMillan s gift of $I50 for the increase of the
Shakespeare Iibrary.
From the Venezuelan Legation at Washington was received a copy of
the Case of Venezuela in the boundary controversy, consisting of five (5)
volumes of text and a portfolio containing 17 maps.
I take this opportunity to acknowledge the generosity of the Institution of Civil Engineers of London. On the solicitation of Professor Greene
the Institution began in I872 to send its Minutes of Proceedings, and has
continued to do so with unfailing regularity. Up to this time Ioo volumes
have been received. The publication is of great value to engineers and the
Institution of Civil Engineers deserves, and has, the hearty thanks of the
University authorities.
Mrs. Chas. H. Chapin of this city presented 50 volumes of miscellaneous books, and 23 pamphlets.




282.


OCTOBEIR I/AEE1 7lyI7AG,,8 S.


Hon. D. M. Ferry gave S70.00 for the purchase of certain rare volumes, i9 in number, of Leigh Hunt.
In March an arrangement wa, made with the officers of the First
National Bank of this city by which they deposit with us at the end of each
year their copy of the Bankers' Magazine, New York, to be used by the
Library as its own books are. ()n our part we agree to bind the volumes
and care for them. This is an arrangement in the interest of both parties
to it. The set is complete from and including vol. I3. The number of
volumes is 43.
Other benefactors whose gifts there is not space to specify were Judge
C. B. Grant, Professors Demmon, Adams, and linsdale, Dr. S. A. Green of
Boston, Professor Francis Bashforth of England, Dr. Mary S. Cutter of
Seoul, Corea, Dr. I. G. Doane of New York, and many others.
USE OF THE LIBRARY.-The statistics that follow were compiled by
Mr. Finney who has charge of the circulation, and represent the use of the
library for the year:
Recorded circulation in the library...        I34,607 vols.
Drawn for home use by members of the Faculty..       7,500
142,I67
This is an increase of 5 per cent. over last year. The "recorded circulation," it shotld be said, represents about one-half the actual use of the
Library.
*The daily average of readers in the Reading Room was I63.
The privilege of consulting books in the Book Room was granted
to 75 students. This was all that could be admitted under the rule.
During the two semesters 350 students were admitted to the Seminary
Rooms, as follows: 6o to the East Room for the study of History, Political
Economy, Philosophy, and Pedagogy; and 290 to the West Room for the
study of English, French and German I iterature, and Greek and Latin literature and Art.
CONDITION OF THEE II1iRARY,-The condition of the bools is good.
Six volumes have been missed. I report them as lost, while believing that
some of them are only misplaced.
* Additional statistics furnished by Mr. Finney are as follows: Of the readers in the
Reading Room 54 per cent. were men, and 46 per cent. womnen. Classified they were:
University students                                       97.37 per cent.
School of Music "......40
High  School............20
Others...                                   2.03. "
IOO  per cent,
A record kept in the men's Cloak Room for the week ending March l9,
1898, showed an average of men visiting the library daily of...  424
A fair estimate for women in the Reading Room and both sexes in the Seminary Rooms is.. 576
I000
While this number would not unfrequently be exceeded during the middle months of
the year it would not be reached in the earlier and the later months.




OC7'TO0BI -/:'/ YEE  TG,,S9S.


2S3


The expenditure of the special appropriation of S200 made by Sou in
1897 to begin a change of classification, was begun during the vacation.
The subject selected for the change was English literature and it was practically carried out in the books of that class before the opening of work ill
(ctober. ()ur books had a fixed location on the shelves. Experience has
shown that with such a system of marking it is impossilble in a large library
to preserve the classification of the books on the shelves without labor that
cannot be justified. It is very desirable —1I may say nzecessa:,y-to preserve
this classification. Consequently schemes have been devised in which the
marking is elastic — analagous to an alphaletical arrangement. Our old
fixed method having become intolerable it was necessary to adopt one of
these schemes, or devise another having the same features.  At first it
seemed possible to devise something which would unloose our fixed location
and make the books movable without having to make changes in the catalogue. It was soon evident, however, that the development of such a
scheme, and the preparation of the details necessary for its use by others,
was too formidable a task for one already fully occupied. The one of the
schemes alluded to which has been worked out most carefully and which is
used most extensively is the "Decimal Classification " devised by Mr. Melvil
Dewey, State Librarian of New Vork. I am not entirely satisfied with this,
but I saw no better course for us under the circutmstances than to adopt it
with such modifications as our needs made desirable. A circumstance that
had influence in producing tllis decision was the fact that Mr. Jordan, the
cataloguer, and Mr. Finney, who has charge of the shelves, are b)oth familiar
with it.  As already said, the collection in English Literature has been
changed, practically. All the accessions of the year received tle new
markings.  These accessions are now occupying temporary cases in the
cataloguing room where they will remain until the extension to the bookroom is ready for occupation.
The second appropriation of $200 made by you for additional work
on the catalogue for I898-99 will be expended in forwarding the change.
As the two markings of the books —the old fixed and the new movablecreate confusion it is desirable that tile change be completed at the earliest
moment possible.
LIBRARY FORCE FOR I898 —99. --- —- The permanent force remains the
same as last year. At the delivery desk Mr. Frank II. Diehl remains. The
three new men are IHarvey IL. Curtis, Irving T. Raah, and H-arry M.
Robins.
Mr. H. S. Person will have charge of tile East Seminary Room and
Mr. La Rowe of the West Room.
WORK OF THE COMIN( YERAR. ---This will be the regular routine work
of the library and a continuation of the change of classification as there 'is
opportunity.
A large number of pamphlets have been received in the past few years.
Such of these as were of importance have been bound separately and are
counted as volumes. Those of minor importance that were parts of special




284


OCTOBER' METL 77NG, 'SQS.


collections —as the Morris and Felch collections-have been classilied and
bound in varying numbers in volumes. No arrangement, however, has
been made of the considerable number of minor importance that have come
at different times from a great many sources. To dispose of these in some
way that will make them accessible will be a part of our work.
The extension of the book-room will, when comp)leted, enable us to
carry on our work to a much greater advantage. Notwithstanding this fact.
however, I think it desirable to state now that in the estimates for the
library for I899-I900, 1 shall ask for additional assistance. We have been
obliged to omit for several years a part of our work that is growing in importance and should be omitted no longer. This is the examination at
stated intervals of the departmental coilections in other buildings, in order
to ascertain their condition and to learn whether or not there have l)een
losses. There are now five such collections which are parts of the General
Library. They are the Astronomical collection at the Observatory, the
Botanical collection at the Botanical Laboratory, the Zoological collection
at the Zoological Laboratory, the Chemical collection at the Chemical
Laboratory, and the Philosophical collection in the class-room of the professor of Philosophy. Besides these, and requiring the same service of us,
are the departmental libraries, half a dozen in number, of the Medical
Library.
In the last few years the library has been the recipient of a large nu1mber of photographs, acquired largely by the departments of ancient languages
for illustrating classical antiquities. The Library has stored them, but we
have been entirely unable to do more. What arrangement and description
of these has been made, has been made l)y the departments of instruction
using them. With our prospective increase of room it is possible to make
more suitable provision for them.  While certain expert assistance must
always be had of the professors it will be better for the library employees to
assume full control of all of this material and handle it as other library
matter is handled.
Our collection of maps has grown to quite respectable proportions in
the last few years. These are the maps of the Coast and Lake surveys, of
the Geological survey, of the Land office, maps of special surveys of the
Government, and military maps. These are in frequent demand for illustrating the scientific work. There has been equal activity in the collection
of maps that illustrate the political changes that have taken place in modern
history, and the progress of geographical discovery. The importance of
these is very great for the study of history in general and for information in
the special exigencies that are sure to arise. The extension of the book
room will give us space for properly arranging these so that they can be
catalogued and found readily when wanted.
I will name again these comparatively new duties, already important
and growing in importance, that we can now hardly attend to at all, and
only in a hurried, imperfect, and unsatisfactory way. They are the regular
inspection of the departmental collections of books and wall maps, the




OC77OBLER JILETIG, 1898. S


2S5


arrangement and care of the collections of photographs, and the arrangement and care of the rapidly accumulating maps and charts.
TI E OT' I IE\k I. IBRARI.LES.
MEDICA.L 1,11.RARY.-.The additions to the Medical library were 918
volumes and 9 pamphlets. Of these 808 volumes and 9 pamphlets were
bought and IIo volumes presented.
For the greater number of volumes given, the Library is indebted to
Mrs. Thirza R. Spalding, of Detroit, Dr. Theodore A. Felch, of Ishpeming,
and Dr. W. J. Herdman, of the University.
The total of bills certified to by me for this library was $2,210. 15. ()f
this sum $I,612.17 were for books, and periodicals published irregularly,
and $597.98 were for annual subscriptions to medical periodicals.
The books of this collection are all in good repair. Owing to a want
of room, classification on the shelves is not a little confused. This will be
remedied as soon as the extension is completed and occupied. When the
amount that has been expended for this library is taken into consideration
the extent and quality-and especially the quality-is very gratifying.
THE LAW LIBRARY.-There were added to the Law Library during
the year 760 volumes. The library of the late Judge Douglass, presented to
the University by his widow, Mrs. Elizabeth C. Douglass, does not enter
into this enumeration, as the books had not been received at the time this
report closes, June 30, I898.
In June the books of this library were removed to the old chapel in
University Hall where they were shelved in the cases they had formerly
occupied. In this condition they were found convenient for consultation.
Members of the Law Faculty, and students of the department, alike
look forward with pleasure to the greater facilities for work, and the inspiration for it that will be afforded by the new quarters in which the books will
be shelved in the near future.
DENTAL LIBRARY.-Nineteen volumes were added to the library of
the Dental College. The cost of these was $80.20. The small number of
additions is accounted for by the fact that the periodicals which form an
important part of the regular annual increase, were not in readiness for
binding before the year closed.
THE HOMOEOPATHIC LIBRARY.-The number of volumes added to
this library was 215, and 9 pamphlets. Of these 200 were bought and 15
given. The interest manifested by the present faculty of this department
is resulting in a very creditable collection of Homoeopathic literature. The
total of bills certified to by me for this library was $251.90. The volumes
presented were largely from Dr. C. B. Kinyon of the Homceopathic Department.
THE BINDERY.
As I anticipated in the report of last year it has been necessary to add
to the force employed in the bindery in order to keep up with the work.




286


OCTOBER MlEETINAG, 'g89q.


For a portion of the year two additional persons were employed.  The outlay for labor and materials was as follows:
Labor..                                                    1.,352.92
Materials............               88.08
Total.........                        $ I,741.00
The following table prepared by Mr. Finney shows the work in detail,
with estimates of the cost of it at prevailing prices.  It also shows the per
cent. of work:
STATEMENT OF BINDING, JULY —JUNE, 1897-98.


Bound and Rebound,
Leather --— _ -- -
Bound and Rebound,
Cloth --- —---
Newspapers Bound in
Duck --- —---
Repaired, Resewed,
etc. —   ----
Paper Covers and
Book-plates -
Index Slips Mounted
on Cards -- -----
Maps Mounted ----


Estimated.
No. of Vols.  E
-Expenses.
950     $  99  88
I,025      355 30,.


Avera ge
Expense
per Vol.
$   I 04
35
I 95
72


66
2,041


129 oo
1,476 i8


68i
677
956
7
4,362


I04 68
6 80
3 30
3 70
1,594 66


I5
01
003
53




OCTOBE'R AlIETfTIATG, Sg8.


287


DISTRIBUTION BY DEPARTMENTS.
General Lib/ra-y.     No. of Vols.  Amount.  Pe- cnt. of
Bound and Rebound, Leather --   704     $ 747 68
Bound and Rebound, Cloth —.    919        3I6 85
Newspapers, Duclk ---- ---       66        I29 oo
Repaired, Resewed, etc. ----- -  609       83 58
Paper Covers and Book-plates —  283          I 40
Index Slips Mounted ----— _.   956         3 30
Maps M1ounted -. —. ---. —        7         3 70
3,544      1,285 51  $       85
Law Lib1rary.
Bound and Rebound, Leather.-    96         92 70
Bound and Rebound, Cloth. ---     2           40
Repaired, Resewed, etc. ---.. 44         I6 70
Paper covers and Book-plates —  394          5 40
536        115 20       7 33
Medical Libiray.
Bound and Rebound, Leather --         8     84 5
Bound and Rebound, Cloth ----    54         28 05
Repaired, Resewed, etc. ------    7          2 90
141        II5 Io       7 32
fomfceopathic Library.
Bound and Rebound, Leather --    6          54 95       3 50
Tolalfor Depatmeent Librarnies-  4,282   1,570 76     l00 00
SPECIAL WORK.
Inserting additional sheets in pay-roll warrants ---  - - S  50
Eight binding samples for State Auditor's (ffice _       I I I5
One volume rebound at expense of Prof. Russell -------    I 25
Twenty Soldiers' " Iousewives," stamped_ ----              I oo
Fifty volumes bound for use in Prof. Hinsdale's class room ----   00
80 Total Special    ---.. ---      --   -- $    23 90
4,282 Total for the Libraries --- — 1 — -      -,570 76
4,362 Vols. Total Output --— $,,594 66




288


OCTOBIER iL.EE TIATG, r,898.


A comparison of the estimated cost of the work at outside linderies
with the outlay for labor and materials shows a balance against the bindery
of $146.34. This is a little more than the favorable balance of last year.
In explanation of the showing this year, the binder informs me that
he had on hand at its close much more stock than he had at the end of the
previous year, and also that a large number of books that were practically
completed, June 3oth, did not go into the account for the year.
It should also be said that the work has been unfavorably affected by
sickness and changes on the part of employees, and the absence of help
sometimes when it was very much needed. As now- constituted the force
promises a better showing for next year.
On the basis of the percentages shown in the table the expense to b)e
borne by each one of the libraries is as follows:
General Library,__-. 81.85 per cent. of $I,74I.00 = $I,425.0085
Law I.ibrary, --- — 7.33 per cent. of 1,74I.00 =   I27.6153
Medical Library,_ _.- 7.32 per cent. of 1,74I.00 -=  27.4412
-Iomoeopathic Library, 3.50 per cent. of 1,74I.00 =  60.9350
$I,741.0000
These amounts have been charged to the appropriations of the several
libraries.             Very respectfully submitted,
Oct. I8, I898.              RAYMOND C. DAVIs, Librarian.
Regent Lawton presented and read the following communication from    the Faculty of the    Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and     the degrees recommended
were conferred in accordance with the recommendation of the
Faculty:
ANN ARBOR, Mlich., October 17, I8q8.
To THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTrS:
GENTLEMTEN:-I have the honor to report to you that the Faculty of
the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, has recommended to
your lonorable Body the following named persons for the degrees indicated:
BACHELOR OF LErTErRS.
John Frederick Thomas.
BACHEIOR OF SCIENCE.
John Auer (in Biology),
()rlo Ray Williams (in General Science).
BACHSIEIOR OF PHILOSOPrHY.
Clarence I). Rowley.
BACHEIOR OF ARTS.
George Henry Allen,
Robert Southgate Danforth,
Thomas Ernest Rankin.
Respectfully submitted,   P. R. DEPONT, Registrar.




OCTOBE:R l/FE T7/AG. iG, 8'<'.


-2S9)


Regent Lawton moved that Mr. F. J. \Vilbur be appointed
Assistant in Astronomy for one year at a salary of $3oo, he to
give half time to the work at the Observatory.
The appointment was made by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Lawton, Carl V. Tower, A\.M., Ph.).,
was appointed Instructor in Philosophy for one year without
salary.
On motion of Regent Lawton Mr. R. H. Pond, B.S.,
was appointed Assistant in the Herbarium for one year without compensation.
The request of Professor Reighard for additional janitor
help in the Museum was laid on the table.
On motion of Regent Dean the degree of Bachelor of
Science in Electrical Engineering was conferred on Charles
Olney Cook, and the degree of Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering was conferred on Roy WNilcox Brown in
accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the
Department of Engineering.
On motion of Regent Dean Alfred Emanuel Lindau was
appointed Assistant to the Dean of the Engineering l)epartment for one year in place of Ernest P. Goodrich, who did
not qualify. Salary $300.
The appointment was made by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Dean presented and read a communication from
the Special Assistants in the Engineering Shops, asking that
they be allowed to stop work at noon on Saturdays. T'he
communication was laid on the table.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the following communication from the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and
Surgery, and the recommendations therein contained were
approved by a full vote of the Board:
ANN  AROI(R, ()ctober 17. Iq1 S.
TO THE HONORABLE, 'THE BOARD1 OF REGENT S:
At a meeting of the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery October 4, I898, the following recommendations to the Board of
Regents were made, and the Secretary was instructed to transmllit tlheml to
you:




290


~~9O        00~~OT0215R I11/IiP[A  SOJ.


I. They recommend for graduation Mr. William Henry Tefft, and ask
that he be graduated with the class of i808. (Mr. Tefft failed in his June
examinations in Surgery and Dermatology. tie was given permission to
appear before the Faculty on June 24th and try a second examination in
these subjects. Several days before that date he was called to New York
State, and could not be at hand. The Faculty then gave him permission
to try the examinations in Surgery and Dermatology (ctober ist, at which
time Mr. Tefft completed these subjects).
2. They recommend Mr. James R. Bibbins to the position of Dispensing Clerk in the Electrotherapeutical Iaboratory, to take the place of
the present incumbent at the same salary.
3. They recommend that the title of Professor William J. lIerdman,
which at the present time reads " Professor of Nervous Diseases and Electrotherapeutics," be changed to read "Professor of the Diseases of the
Mind and Nervous System, and Electrotherapeutics."
Respectfully,
G. CARL. HIBER,
Secretary Med. Faculty.
The Hospital Committee gave notice that Misses Louise
L     _0A,  I~owy, Julia  Stohl, and  Lillian  Grace  Ellsworth  had completed the course in the Training School for Nurses in the Department of Medicine and Surgery and were recommended for
the proper Certificate of Graduation.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the President and Secretary
were authorized to sign and deliver tbe Certificates and attach
the seal of the University thereto.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist was conferred      upon  Herbert Eugene Taber in
accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the
School of Pharmacy.
The Director of the Chemical Laboratory notified the
Board that Messrs. Frederick Stearns & Co., of Detroit, had authorized  the renewal of the Stearns &       Co. Fellowship for
Research in the School of Pharmacy for the year 1898-99.
And on motion of Regent Kiefer, the Secretary was requested
to transmit to Messrs. Stearns & Co. the cordial thanks of the
Board for their great generosity in establishing this Fellowship,
as well as for their interest in the University as manifested in
many other wavs.




OCTO B'' R  IEL IIN', 7 -G, 88.9.


291


On the recommendation of the Director of the Chemical
laboratory, and on motion ot Regent Kiefer, Mr. Charles W.
Johnson was appointed Assistant in Qualitative Chemistry for
one year to take the place of Mr. J. G. Van Zwaluwenburg,
resigned.   Salary $200.
Regent Kiefer presented and read the following coilmunication from the Director of the Chemical Laboratory:
ANN ARBO()R, ()ct. 17, ISqS.
To THE H-ONORABLE T11E B)OARI) OF REGEINTS.
DEAR SIRS: ---I beg to request you to receive in trust the sum of $8I5,
appropriated by " 7'e Conmmittee ofq evision alnzd Publication of the Pharmacopoia of the Uniteld States, i89o-00oo, for experimental research in the
chemical laboratory of this University during the present college year. This
appropriation is to provide $500 in compensation of II. M. Gordin, Ph.D.,
$200 in compensation of Paul I. Murrill, M.S., both these persons being now
in residence as students in this University, also $65 in payment of laboratory
fees of Dr. Gordin, and $50 toward typewriting and other office expenses.
Payments to be made on vouchers approved by the undersigned or by
Charles Rice, Ph.D., New York City, Chairman of the Committee above
named.
My reason for desiring the Treasury of the University to hold this
appropriation is that I believe it will give greater security to the vouchers of
payment. It is of the nature of a fellowship fund. This is the third year
that we have received these appropriations from the same committee.
Very respectfully,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the Treasurer was directed
to receive the money in trust for the purpose stated in the
communication.
Regent Lawton moved that Miss Alice G. Snyder be
reappointed Instructor in the Women's Gymnasium          for one
year. salary $900, with permission to pursue work in the Medical Department, upon the condition        that  she  secure the
services of a competent person to take care of the work during
her absence.     And that Miss Helen Bender be appointed
Assistant in the Gymnasium for one year, salary to be paid by
Miss Snyder.
The motion was carried by a full vote of the Board.
Relgent Fletcher presented and read a communication




292                OCU7TO'E' 1/LEE7TIGU, S9gS.
from A. Hild, of Detroit, a sub-contractor on the Law Building, asking the Board to reimburse him       in the sum of $400,
for error made in estimate for ceiling the large lecture rooms.
The Board decided that his recourse was on Carew and Coripany, the contractors for the work.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the matter was laid on
the table.
The President reported the following list of reappointments which should have appeared in the minutes of the May
meeting of the Board, and the appointments were made:
Walter 1B. Pillsburv, Ph.D., Instructor in Psychology for one year,
salary S9oo, salary to he raised after one year, Assistant Professor after
two years.
Earle W. I)ow, A.B., Instructor in 1listory for three years. Salary
$I200.
Joseph 1f. Drake, A.B., Assistant Professor of Latin for three years:
Salary $I6oo.
Dean C. Worcester, A.B., Assistant Professor of Biology and Curator
of the Museum for three years. Salary $I600.
G. Carl HIuber, M.D., Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Director of
the Histological Laboratory for three years. Salary $160o.
A. 1. Stevens, Ph.C., Assistant P'rofessor of Pharmacy for three years.
Salary $I600.
0. R. Iong, M.I)., Special Lecturer on Mental and Nervous Diseases
in the Home(opathic Medical College for one year, without salary.
Ernst 11. Mensel, Ph.D., Instructor in German for three years. Salary $I200.
Warren W. Florer, Ph.D., Instructor in German for one year. Salary
$900.
Edwin C. Roedder, Ph.D., Instructor in German for one year. Salary
$900.
John E. Iautner, M.L., Instructor in German for one year on half
time. Salary $450.
On motion the Board took a recess until 2 o'clock P..
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board assembled at 2 o'clock P. M., Regent Cook in
the chair, the President being temporarily absent.
On motion    of Regent Fletcher it was voted        that the
mechanical appliances in the Physical Laboratory be placed in




OC ('   t 'O ' R  ill/A T '7'I, iSS.  '2.):
the Mechanical Laboratorv under the direction of Professor
C. G. Taylor.
The request of D)r. Carrow for additional gas liglhts to be
placed in his room at the Hospital was laid on the table until
the next meeting.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, it was voted that 42 yards
of rubber matting be laid in the corridors of University Hlospital and that the cost of the same be charged to the budget
fund of the Hospital.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Messrs. Spier and Rohns
were allowed $750 on account of plans and specifications for
the new ILaw Building by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted that Albert
Fritsch be allowed $36.75 for additional plastering in the Iaw
Building, made necessarv by installing the electric wires.
On mlotion of Regent Fletcler-, the Superintendent of
Buildings and (rounds was directed to put in a line of sewer
pipe from the Anatomllical Iaboratory, and the water closets
on the east side of the campus, and connect it with the city
sewer in East University Ave.
Regent Fletcher moved that $500 be aIp)lropriated for the
purchase of pipe covering. The vote was as followss:
Ayes —Regents Cook, I)ean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Fiarr, and I.awo\n.
Navs —None.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds was authorized to purchase three cars
of lumber for use on the campuls.
Regent Fletcher plresented and read a colmmiunication
fromi Henry Carew & Colmpany, claimling to have lost S2,700
on their contract for the new I.aw Bulilding, and askinl the
Board to reimburse theml to the amount of $1,430.  After
some discussion the matter was laid on the table.
On motion of Regent Farr, the degree of Bachelor of Iaws
was conferred upon Walter Napoleon Langell, William Adaml
Seeg Miller, and Tholmas Joln Weadock, in accordance with




294


294       ()C!'Ofl/&A'   ll: I: iY~V(I. I8S'.S


the recommendation of the Faculty of the I)epartment of
Law.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, it was voted to amend the
Hospital rules of June, I891, as follows: after the words, "are
required to occupy private roomls," line 7, page 536, add, " All
charity cases are left to the discretion of the Superintendent
and the Clinical Professors, providing there are rooms vacant."
The Faculty of the Homceopathic Medical College asked
permission to give a course of medical lectures in their Deplartmnent, to the physicians of the State, and that the Board establish a uniform fee of $10 for the samne.
The request was granted by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Kiefer read a colmmunication froil Mr. (. K.
Harroun, endorsed by General Wheeler, sutesting the wisdoml
and the great desirability (in view of our new relations to the
Island of Cuba) for each educational institution in this country
to undertake to educate two or Imore Cubans free. After somie
consideration the matter was postponed until the next meeting.
Regent Farr, chairiman of the sl)ecial conmmittee sent east
to look after the interest of the University in the Bates will
case, made an exhaustive report on the work of the commlittee.
The report was accepted and ordered placed on file.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, it was voted that the State
Horticultural Society be invited to hold the D)ecember ]meeting
of the society at the University.
On lmotion of Regent Kiefer, the resignation of J. \\.
Minerd, Demonstrator of Operative I)entistry, was accepted.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Wednesday, Novemllber T6th, at io o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. \VAI)E,
S,(" ECRF''lA R.




NOVEMBER IMEETING.
UNIVERSITY  1)i  \  ( 1(1I;IAN. /
ANN ARBOR, No)VEBliiER 1l6, 1898.
The Board assembled in the room of the President at io
o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Cook, I)ean, Kiefer, FIletcher, Farr,
Butterfield, and Iawton.
Absent, Regent Cocker.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were on motion of Regent Kiefer approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry communications which had reached the President
were placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the
Board for consideration.
The President then presented and read his annual report
which is as follows:
'Lo the Regents of the University:
I have the honor to lay before you my Annual Report.
By your permission I was absent during the entire year,
engaged in the diplomatic service of the United States.  I
am, therefore, unable to speak froml personal observation of
the life of the University during the period under consideration. But I have endeavored to inforim myself concerning
what has been done, and can, I think, see what are some of
our most pressing needs.
First of all, I wish to express my hearty appreciation of
the industry, energy and wisdom which Acting President
Hutchins brought to his executive duties. At your urgent




296)0)


296      i~c) I i~i//)/~IC  1//if /124;, 


request he most relunctantly undertook theml. But students,
Faculties and the public most cordially agree with the warml
commendations of his work which you lhave forimallv uttered
in your resolutions of tlhanks to hil.
The weeks of this last summler vacation have been
freighted with heavy p)ersonal losses to the University.
Scarcely were the festivities of (Commencemlent week ended,
when we were shocked by the terrible news that Professor
Walter was lost in the fatal disaster to the steamer Bourgogne on July 4. A\ graduate of this institution in the class
of I868, Mr. Walter had given his whole life to her service.
A scholar of ample and various learning, a faithful and inspiring teacher, a man of the noblest character, he. will be remuembered with deep affection 1by his colleagues and with gratitude
by his many pupils.  Ile had filled the chairs of Assistant
Professor of Ancient Languages, of Professor of Modern
Languages, and, when the duties of tils last chair were at hlis
request divided, of Professor of Romance lIanguages and
Iiteratures.
On September 12, last, after a very prolonged illness,
Professor Thomas M1. Cooley found a welcomle release in
death.  It may safely be said that no milal has contributed
more to the fame and prosperity of the University than Judge
Cooley. A memlber of the first l'acultv of the.aw I)epartment in 1859, he has rendered continuous service of some
kind to one or another Department of the University almost
to the time of his decease.  His writings, especially his treatises on Constitutional Law, made his name and that of the
University known wherever lEnglish law is read.  Students
came from afar to sit at his feet, and all went awav filled with
admiration for the teacher and affection for the mlan.. His
administrative services as Dean of the Law I)epartment were
of the highest value. By the simplicity, sincerity and integrity of his character, and by his quick sympathies and kindness
of heart, he bound us all to him by the closest of ties.
On October 3, James L. High, who has been a lecturer




NClO IE.IB'AER 1IEE1 7'iNG, 1S9S.


297


on special topics on law for several years in our Iaw Department, died after a brief illness at his home in Chicago. Mr.
High was a graduate of our law' School. lie had not only
won a high reputation at the Illinois lbar, but was well known
both here and abroad through his treatises on Injunctions and
on Receivers and on Extraordinary ILegal Remedies.   He
was a man of refined and scllolarly culture, and he inspired
his pupils with the highest ideals of professional life.
I think that never in so brief a period hlas thle University
before been called to suffer so heavv an affliction as the loss
of these three eminent teachers has brought to it in the past
few months.   I amn painfully reminded of the rapidity of
changes in our Faculties, as I reflect that since the death of
Professor Coolev and Professor Walter, of the more than two
hundred teachers on our rolls only four were members of our
Faculties when I assumed the duties of the Presidency in 1871.
In appendices to this report will be found a list of appointments and resignations in the Faculties during tlie year, a
statement of the attendance in the several l)epartvments, and a
list of the degrees conferred.
The attendance last year was the larcest in tlhe history of
the University. Thle total nulmber of students, exclusive of
those in the Sumimer Schools, was 3,114, an increase over that
of the preceding year of 236. If we include tlhe students of
the Summer School of 1897, the attendance was 3,223. The
gain was largely in the Iaw I)epartment, which then fully
completed its change of course fromn two years to three years.
It is therefore apparent that the public was fully ready for the
extension of the course. The gain ill the number of undergraduate candidates for degrees in the Literary Department
was considerable, 97. The number of graduate students
changes but little from year to year. It is encouraging to
observe that we retain and attract so many students for graduate work, when most of the stronger Universities are able by
endowments to offer our cgraduates, and the graduates of other
institutions, fellowships and scholarships yielding from $300




298


ANO VEMAIBER   A EE TI NG, 898.


to $500 a year, or even more. It is well known that we have
only one permanent fellowship, though the generosity of some
of our friends is temporarily furnishing us two or three others.
In other words, with two or three exceptions, graduates must
remain here, if at all, at their own charges, while they are
offered a comfortable support if they will accept a fellowship
at some one of four or five of the stronger Universities in our
country. We ought to be encouraged by the fact that seventysix persons are pursuing graduate studies with us in these
circumstances rather than to be discouraged by the fact that
there are not more.
At the same time, as has been intimated in some of my
previous Reports, one of the gravest questions now confronting this University and several others, is whether the States
or private generosity will furnish them the means for carrying
beyond the undergraduate curriculum the considerable number of brilliant and aspiring young scholars who are willing to
give the time for two or three years of advanced and specialized study. It is by the training of such men that American
scholarship will be carried to the high level which the needs
of our country demand. It will be for the good of the State
and for the glory of the University, if we can be enabled and
permitted to do our full part in this honorable work. We
shall certainly suffer in reputation and usefulness and influence, if we are unable to do so.
I give as usual some of the interesting figures concerning the residence of our students. Michigan furnished 1,863,
which is 116 more than in the previous year, and the largest
number ever sent by this State. Estimating the population at
two and a half millions, one person in 1,342 is a student in
the University. Illinois, although so well furnished with colleges and universities, sent us 365 students, 58 more than in
the year before, Ohio furnished I9I, Indiana 98, Iowa 86,
New York 71, Pennsylvania 69, Missouri 60, Wisconsin 40,
California 34, Massachusetts 30, Colorado 28, Kentucky 26,
Kansas 19, Nebraska 19, Utah 16, Montana I5.




A\o f0VEiluER it' l' Ai G,,898. S


2L2-9


Every State in the Union, except Delaware, and every
Territory, and Alaska, and the District of Columbia, and the
Hawaiian Islands, were represented, as were (ermany, IEngland, Russia, Turkey, Mexico, Japan, and the provinces of
Ontario and Quebec. It may be doubted whether so cosiopolitan a company of students is assembled at any other
university in the country. Not the least of the happy influences of life here is found in the opportunity of associating
with students from every part of this land and from several
foreign lands. While Michigan mlay be glad to see that an
ever increasing number of her sons and daughters are availing
themselves of the privileges which the State furnishes by the
support of the University, we trust that she is proud to observe
that the Institution has sufficient merit and fame to attract
students from all parts of the civilized world. Nor need her
joy be tempered by the apprehension that the attendance of
these students from afar puts an additional burden on the
tax-payers of Michigan. In previous Reports it has been
repeatedly demonstrated that their presence is of distinct
pecuniary advantage to our treasury, as it is of marked benefit
in giving a large catholic spirit to the life of the University
and in spreading far and wide its reputation and its influence.
The attendance of women was as follows:
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts,. 589
Department of Engineering,..                        I
Department of Medicine and Surgery,...59
Department of Law,....                        5
School of Pharmacy,....                        3
Homeopathic Medical College,.......  8
College of Dental Surgery,....                    8
673
The preceding year the number was 647. The gain was
therefore 26. In the Literary Department there was a gain of
48; in some of the Departments there was a slight loss. The
relative attendance of women to the total attendance fell from
22.4 per cent. in the previous year to 21.6 per cent. For
several years the proportion of women to the total attendance




300


Al                         i&98.


has not fallen below 20 per cent. nor risen above that of
I896-7, 22.4 per cent.
The work of the various Departments has been carried on
smoothly and successfully. It is a cause of satisfaction that
the condition of the treasury has made it possible to enlarge
somewhat the teaching force in the Literary I)epartmnent,
especially for the classes in the modern languages.  It is quite
impossible to do good work in teaching those languages to
large sections.
The arrangelments, Ib which students are allowed in the
latter part of their literary course to combine with it studies in
law or in miedicine, are proving very satisfactory.  By availing
themselves of the opportun ities offered students are able to
abridge by a year the time otherwise needed to complete the
collegiate and the professional course. One who is studious
may thus graduate from both the Literary and the Law Department in six years, or froml both the Literary and the Medical
Department in seven years. This is possible, not because any
of the work is slighted, but because certain work conmmon to
the Literary and the Professional course is credited as fulfilling the requirements for both degrees.  For example, certain
studies in chemistry are properly credited as meeting the
requirements for a bachelor's degree and those for the degree
of doctor of medicine.  In the same way studies in constitutional history or in international law are treated as meeting
the requirements for the lachelor's degree in arts and the
bachelor's degree in law. A careful committee considers every
application for the privilege of pursuing the joint course, and
reports favorably only when it is clear that the privilege can
safely be granted to the applicant.
There has been much complaint throughout the country
because, since the courses in all the best professional schools
have been lengthened to three years in law and four years in
medicine, students who complete a full collegiate course and
a full professional course get so late to their real work in life.
Some have proposed as a remedy reforms in the lower grades




0    JlE- A' ii'/ 1A, '  9.          301 1
of schools which should bring the student to college a year or
two earlier than he now colies. If such reforms are feasible,
some time seems necessary to accomplish themn. And some
doubt whether if students could get to college at the age of
sixteen, they would derive as much profit from the collegiate
course as they do when entering at the age of eightcen. and
therefore whether the supposed ogain in timle might not prove
a loss in attainmients and mental growth. Without deciding
if that dolubt is well founded or not, it seems clear to us that
having all our Departments on the salme grounds w\e (an
wisely and without inconvenience to tlme student or witlhout
detracting from the thorouhllness of his collegiate or professional training pursue the plan which we have adopted.
At the Observatory Professor Hall has bleen engged since
April with the meridian circle in observing zenith distances of
Polaris for the purpose of determining the variation of latitude
and the aberration constant. 'The preliminary reductions
have been kept up as the observations have bee  in ade, and
results seem to be very satisfactory. Since the instrument was
remounted in the piers, it has been lmuch more steadv, and
probably a cause of trouble that had existed for many years
was thereby removed. With the large equatorial Dr. Townley
observed several comets and asteroids.
Certain much needed improvemlents have just been comnpleted in the Chemical Building, which is used to its utmost
capacity by the students of the several departments of the
University.  An enlargement of the Iaboratorv of (eneral
Chemistry has been made, by elevating a portion of the building on the east, and the interior has been adapted to the best
laboratory methods.  By this extension provision has been
made for teaching Physical Chemistry, a branch of Imuch
importance.  Room has been secured for Chemical Technology by finishing in a substantial manner the entire south
basement. The whole of this space has been very carefully
fitted with superior appliances for the principal branches of
Chemical Technology. This greatly needed improvenment wi.ll




,02.)02  ~~~-NOV111)!JBJCAJL 7N, 8Q&.


give added impetus to the work in industrial aids and methods, so much in demand.
Messrs. Parke, IDavis & Co., of l)etroit, have made a gift
in support of a fellowslip in research in the Iaboratory of
General Chemlistry for the year I898-9. We were indebted to
the samne house for a like -ift in 1895.
The work of the Department of Medicine and Surgery
has as usual been carried on with great thoroughness. The
course at present imakles very strenuous delnands on the
students. The requiremTents for admission have been somewhat modified in order to secure preparation in scientific
studies. The rooms assigned to the Department are seriously
overcrowded. A building providing larger laboratory facilities is much desired by the Faculty, and is no doubt much
needed.
The hospital connected with the Iepart:cent has had
unusual demands on it. The number of patients froml July I,
1897, to July i, 1898, was the largest ever known here, being
1,7I5. Of these 1,072 were in-patients, 643 were out-patients.
Seventy-six counties of Michigan were represented among
them. The farmers numbered 288, the mechanics 100, housewives 375.  Persons of almost every vocation were treated.
Many were restored from helpless disability to lives of useful
productivity.  Of these some had become a charge on the
treasuries of the counties.  Had the hospital been larger, this
beneficent assistance could have been rendered to others.
A neat and convenient building has been completed
during the year, which affords pleasant rooms for twenty
nurses, and a kitchen and dining room for patients.
The Law Department is now housed in a fine building,
fitted with modern conveniencies, and having ample accommodations for one thousand students.  In 1892, the growth
of the Department had been such that the original building
had become inadequate, and a large addition was constructed.
In I895, a third year was added to the course, and soon thereafter the requirements for admission were materially increased.




A'C O iEMBIR i E/Tilv' TNG, lS.S.


30')3


It was thought by some that these changes would result in a
decrease in the attendance, but instead of this there has been
a marked increase. The enrolment of last year was seven
hundred and sixty-seven, an increase of one hundred and
eighty-one over the enrolment of the year previous. Enlarged
accommodations became a necessity, and during the year the
Board discussed and finally adopted plans that involved practically the reconstruction of the old building and an addition
thereto that would more than double its capacity. The plans
were so made and have been so carried out that the old building is completely lost in the present structure, which presents
the appearance of an entirely new edifice. The new building
has a frontage of 208 feet, and its extreme width is 120 feet.
It is three stories high with a basement. The material of the
basement and first story is cut stone and of the other two
stories pressed brick with stone trimmings. The building is
substantial and dignified in appearance, solid in structure,
and gives the department a housing that for commodiousness
and convenience is second to that of no law school in the
United States. Three large lecture rooms, capable of accommodating upwards of three hundred students each, are provided, while six smaller ones, each of half that capacity,
furnish ample room for the sections into which classes are
divided for recitation purposes. The office of the Board of
Regents, the offices of administration, the offices of the several
resident professors and four lecture rooms are upon the first
floor. The capacious and well lighted reading room  that
contains the law library is upon the second floor, and clustered around this are seminary, consultation and private study
rooms for the use of the students and the Faculty. Near the
library and upon the same floor are the court room and the
offices of the practice court. There are also three lecture
rooms on the second floor. Upon the third floor are two
lecture rooms, ample debating and society rooms and the
office of the instructors.  The building is provided with a fan
system of heating and ventilation and is lighted by electricity.




304..


304..           V~X01   JEIIBA' jf22      -/iy IVSOS.


For the money expended, about 65,ooo0 including the furnishing, the results are more than could reasonably have been
expected at the time the work was undertaken.
The School of Pharmacy now enters upon its thirty-first
year. Its graduates number 765 persons. MAore than half of
its students have entered the University from the high schools
of this state, but on going out they have been in demand in
all the states, in the east even more than in the west, for
various services of skill.  As an instance of tle part which
Michigan has taken in pharmaceutical education it may be
mentioned tlat the present dean of the oldest school of pharmacy in New England graduated in pharmacy here in iSS3,
and came as a boy from the Jackson high school to the UIniversity in 1878. As another instance, a few years ago the
Maine State College established a department of pharllacy
and called to take charge of it a pharlmacist resident in Alichigan, who had prepared for college in a Michigan high school
and earned our degree in pharmlacy in 887. Again, in Alabama, upon the establishment of pharmacy in the Institute of
Technology, it was intrusted to a Michigan man, educated in
pharmacy at this UTniversity.
For the prosecution of chemical and pharmlaceutical
research at this University in the year now b)efore us, certain
trust funds have been placed in the hands of the Regents, in
continuation of gifts for like purposes for several years past. It
is proper to acknowledge the trust reposed in this institution
by the givers of these annual stipends, in their purl)ose to sustain scientific investigation. The Committee of Revision and
Publication of the Pharmacopoeia of the United States, 1890 -I900, a body representing the physicians, the pharmacists, and
the government of this country, out of the proceeds of publication, have set apart a sunm sufficient to support two experienced workers in research at this point. This work is to be
upon the quantitative methods establishing the purity and
strength of remedial agents, under the direction of the School
of Pharmacy.  Messrs. Frederick Stearns & Co., of Detroit,




AO!791/BAA))ER I/A/iTJA7, zSgs.


this year again, support a fellowship il research in the School
of Pharmacy, this annual grant having been continuous since
1895.
The Honceoplathic Medical College continues to mnake a
moderate but regular increase in numbers. As it now has a
united and efficient Faculty and apparently enjoys the cordial
support of the profession in the state and in the whole country,
there seems to be every reason to expect a high degree of
prosperity for it. In its laboratories and its hospital it has
now a good outfit for work of the most thorough character.
The report of its hospital shows that from October, 1897,
to July I, 1898, it cared for 315 in-patients and 423 outpatients. Compared with the previous year that is an increase
of 98 in the number of in-patients, and of 225 in out-patients.
It has nearly doubled the earnings of the previous year..s in
the other hospital the farmers, o'f whon there were 71, and tle
housewives, 104, exceeded in number those of any other calling in life. More than half the counties in the state were
represented in the patients. The hospital is elmphatically a
most useful public charity.
The Dental College continues its work with increasing
usefulness and prosperity. Its graduates are now found in
all parts of this country and in foreign lands.  It is a noteworthy fact that almost everywhere in the world the superiority
of American to European dentists is recognized. This is due
to the fact that the training in our best dental schools is
better than that of foreign schools.  Hence we always have
some foreign students in the D)epartment.
The growth of our libraries durinl the last year has been
reasonably gratifying.  The applropriations made by the
Regents from our General Fund, supplemented by the income
from the Coyl and Ford legacies and by generous gifts from
many donors has added, as we learn from  the Librarian's
report, 9,022 volumes, 1,079 pamphlets and 24 maps. Our
entire  collections  now number 122,962 volumes, 18,461
pamphlets, and 1,299 mIaps; of these the General library con



306


ANO VEMi:/BEeR MEE TiNG,,Sg8.


tains 98,222 volumes, 16,952 pamphlets and 1,299 maps. The
circulation of books was larger than ever before. The recorded
use, which is estimated at about one-half of the whole use,
reached I42,I67 volumes.
It is well known to the Board that students are not allowed
to draw books from the Library and take them to their rooms.
They must use them, if at all, in the reading room of the Library, which is kept open every week day from 8 o'clock in the
morning to o1 o'clock in the evening. As it has always been
our policy to give to our readers the largest use of the Library
compatible with the safe administration of it, the question has
often arisen whether we could not set aside a certain number
of books which  students might draw and carry to their
rooms for a limited time. I have discussed the subject in
some, previous Reports. It has seemed to me that when we
had collected about 1oo,ooo volumes in the General Library,
we might try the experiment. Of course most of our books
could not thus be loaned. But a considerable number, many
of them duplicates, could be selected for circulation without
incommoding the great mass of our students. And the students would, it seems to me, be materially aided in much of
their work. Perhaps an incidental advantage would be the
relief of our reading room, which at certain seasons does not
now furnish accomlnodations for all the readers. The additional expense of administration would not be large. The
enlargement of the Library building and the consequent
redistribution of our books seem to make this a suitable time
to consider the subject afresh. I respectfully commend it to
your attention.
It is a cause of great satisfaction that the Regents have
been able to make an addition to the Library Building, doubling the capacity of the book room and of our Art Gallery.
This addition is fifty-four feet in length and forty feet in
width. It contains three stories for iron stacks and one story
for the art room. This will provide storage room for about
70,000 volumes. It is proposed to provide on the third floor




A'O VEAZIBERiA' /E1  TING, 89oS.


307.) )i


for the special collections and the rare and valuable books,
which should be guarded more carefully. There are now
several thousands of this character. Space will also be afforded
in this third story for the "Concord Room" for the Thoreau
and Emerson collections, presented by Dr. S. A. Jones, and
for other rooms of a similar character
We shall also be able to display in a fitting manner our
collections of paintings, especially those of the Lewis collection, which in our limited space we were unable to provide for
as we desired.
I trust that the day is not distant when we may throw out
wings from the new book room to provide seminary rooms, for
which there is most urgent need. This can easily be done in
keeping with the architectural plan of the building. The
seminary method for advanced students has now been so generally adopted that all the best College Libraries recently
constructed make generous provision for seminary rooms.
Our present number is inadequate to our wants.
The Alumni Association, which now receives to lmembership the graduates of all Departments, is evincing a most
encouraging disposition to aid the University. It etmploys a
paid secretary and clerks who gather information about the
alumni, and by various means keep them in touch with tile
University. It is publishing a monthly magazine, the Alumnus,
which contains matter of special interest to graduates. A semimonthly sheet, the University News Letter, is also published fronm
the office of the Association. It is sent to any who desire it, but
especially to the newspapers of the State. It is filled with
trustworthy items of news from the University, which are given
in brief articles that newspapers are invited to produce without giving credit to the News Letter. It is edited by Professor
Scott. Through it the newspaper press of the State has been
led to give a large circulation to news of real importance to
the citizens of the State, who furnish in large part the support
of the University. We desire nothing so much as that they
should be kept fully advised of the nature and extent of the




308


IA (                              -A'(;,, So S.


work done here, and of the worth and beneficent influence of
the University.
When the recent war with Spain broke out, the patriotic
spirit of the University flamed up as it did in i86i. So far as
known, about one hundred and twenty-five of our students
and as many more of our graduates enlisted, and many others
would have willingly gone, if their aid had seemed necessary.
Three of our prominent Professors also enlisted, D)r. Nancrede,
Professor of Surgery in the Department of Medicine, Dr.
Vaughan, Dean of that I)epar-tment, and M. E. Cooley, Professor of Mechanical Engineering. The two former served on
the medical staff with the greatest efficiency.  They were
present at the fighting before Santiago, and 1)r. Vaughan was
prostrated with the yellow fever. Mr. Cooley, who is an engineer graduate of the Naval Academy, was Chief Engineer on
the United States Steamter Yosemite, which was manned by
the Naval Reserves of Michigan, and took an active part in
the campaign.  Dr. Nancrede, after discharging most difficult
and responsible duties, was released from  the service, and
resumed his work here at the opening of the year. Dr.
Vaughan, after his recovery froml yellow fever, was detailed to
study the causes of typhoid fever in certainl camps, and is
detained in Washinglton, colmpleting his report.  His return
to his post here is expected soon. Professor Cooley's services
have been so valuable that the navy department lhas been
unwilling to spare him vet, but we hope lie may before long
secure his discharge. lThe Board willingly granted these three
officers leave of absence for this latriotic duty, and they have
all done marked credit to tlhemselves and to the University.
The Board also in June conferred degrees on the men who
would have conmpleted tleir courses at that tilme, but who left
for the front in April.
So far as known to us, seven University meni lost their
lives in the war.
John Albert Bobb, iM.D., i886, was Assistant Surgeon of
the 34th Michigan Infantry. He died Aug. 19, on the voyage




,A()oI'1<.Jf'8i/K 11/AA/7 Tfi\7 I'YO.


form Santiago de Cuba to Alontauk Point, and was buried at
sea. His last words were, "I die for ill country; my only
regret is tlat I have not a hundred lives to offer for her."
Charles Augtust Fred von Walthausen, Ph.C., 1896, a
private in the 31st Michigan Infantry, died at (Camup Thomas,
Chickainauga, \Aug. 1o, aged 23 years.
William James ('Brien, who was fromll 1894-7 a lneiliber
of the last graduating class, was a sergeant in Torrey's Rough
Riders, and died at Jacksonville, Fla., Sept. 13, of malarial fever.
Oliver PBurleigh Norton, of the medical class of 190I, was
one of Roosevelt's Rolugh Riders, and was killed while bravely
charging up thle hill of San Jluall.
John Oliver, a student in tlie Iaw )epartment, a sergeant
in the 34th  li(chi,-an I nfantrv died in the hoslital at Sibonev,
Cuba, on Aug. 2I, aged 2 1 years.
Henry Carlton (owanl of the    literary I)epartmlent, a
private in the 33d 5Michigan Infantry, died of tylhoid fever at
Grace Hospital, Detroit, on Sept. T.  — e was )buried at Sault
Ste. Marie.
Elihlu Harrv l:ovnton, of St. (.lair, a 1private in tlie 3 Lst
Michigan Infant-r, died at Knoxville   n, Te i. o No-velber 2.
His home was St. Clair, Mlich. I-e liad studied in the literary and law D)epartmlents.
The naimes of these voung mien w     ill be cherislled with
those of the heroic spirits who left these halls for their coiintrv's
sake in the Civil \War and fell on southern fields.
A nulmber of students, who left the Universitv and joined
the 3ist Michigan regiment asked mie, when it was apparent
that there was no fighlting for them i to do, to inl(luire if the
War Department would not discharge theimt from service in
order that the5y iighilt return to their studies.  I therefore
requested the Secretary of War to release them. if such action
was compatible witl public interests.  1ie very promptly
granted the request. and miost of themll are already here at
their work.
In I890 we issued a General Catalogue of all tle students




310,\ 0 1 ~',JBEA) /1 At ' 71,l-G, iS'S.


who up to that time had been connected with the University.
It was prepared with ilmmlense labor and scrupulous care by
Professors Deminon and Pettee.  It gave, so far as then could
be learned, the occupations, official positions and addresses of
every graduate, and the names of those who had attended, but
not graduated. The volume was beautifully I)rinted. It has
attracted much attention, and has been i mitated by somle other
Institutions.  It was expected at the time of publication that
a new edition would be published in  900o. Clearly it is of
great importance that we should have another issue ready by
Commencement Day of that year.    In order to accolmplish
this, it is necessary that the work should soon be taken in
hand. I recommend that the Executive (Comlittee be at
once charged with the duty of relortingr to the Board a plan
for preparing the new edition of the General Catalogue. The
last one was so well prepared, and Professor Demmon has so
faithfully preserved the lmaterial whicli has come to hand for
another edition, that the task will be much less onerous than it
was before. I miay add that MIiss Chase of l)etroit has generously placed at our disposal the material gathered by her
father, the late ''heodore R. (Chase, who was so many years the
necrologist of the Alumni Association, and who prepared two
earlier editions of the catalogue of graduates.
It has been decided to require of the first year students
in the literary and engineering departments attendance for
two hours a week on instruction in the gymxinasiui1. It has
been found that often those who are most in need of physical
exercise do not take it. It has therefore been thought wise
to insist that those who are beginning college work should
take some gymnastic work.  It is hoped that they wvill by trial
see the benefits of it and acquire the habit of taking- systematic
and regular exercise.
The gifts which we have received during tlme year encourage us to hope that our friends will continue to sulI)plement the state appropriations by generous assistance.
In addition to the fellowships provided -by Parke, Davis &




NOEJ IiBE'   AIE LY 7A-(,. S9S.:,11


Co., and Frederick Stearns & Co., Mr. D. M. Ferry also provided one in Botany for the year.
Hon. James McMillaln has (continued his c('ontrilutions for
the Shakespeare Library.
The Iaw Lib-rary las been enriclhed dllring the past year
by the gift from the widow and childten of the late Judge
Salmuel T. I)ouglass, of Detroit, of the law l)ooks that formled
his office collection. albout 700 volutlles. \\lliletlhese are very
largely duplicates of books tlht we already lhave. thev \\ill l)e
very useful to the D)epartmtent, as witl our large number of
students, miany duplicates are needed. Tlhe gift of tlese books
was in accordance with a wish expressed by Judge Douglass not
long before his death.  It is to be hoped that other members
of the bar, when providing for the disposition of their law
libraries, will remember that a Iore useful disposition could
not in most cases be made than b p)lacing them in the collection of this I)elartmlent.  All stuch gifts are kept bv themselves, and are known I) the name of the donor.
In Decemlber last Ex-Regent l evi I.. Iarbouir, \who had
already displayed his generosity to the University by his liberal
contribution towards the erection of the Barbour (Gvmlnasium
for XWomen, proposed to present to the Regents of the University certain pIremises in I)etroit valued at $15,ooo  or Imore
as a contribution toward the erection of a building to be
devoted to the display and promlotionl of art in the University.
The gift was to be made on the condition that within five
years the Regents should secure $5,0ooo for the erection
of the art building, and that wvithin six years they should
have begun the building and expended at least $20,000
upon it.  Mrs. Barbour joined with her husband in this
action.
Of our great need of such a building there can be no
question. Since the gift of the Rogers Collection of statuary
and of the Lewis Collection of pictures, our Art Gallery has
proved much too small for the proper display of our objects
of art. It is true the extension of the art gallery soon to be




312:312  OT JiJ/LI   if/i/ifAYA;W, iS9~.


completed will nmuch relieve us.  But the day is not distant
when the whole of our present art gallery, which occupies the
upper story of the Library building will be needed for library
purposes. Besides, if we had an appropriate fire proof building set apart exclusively for a gallery, we should receive many
gifts for our collections which are not likely to come to us in
our crowded rooms.
On April 6, I898, Miss Elizabeth Bates, M.I)., died at
Port Chester, N.. Y By will she bequeathed to the University
the bulk of her estate.  She directed that, subject to certain charges, the property be(lueathed should be "for the
use of the Medical Departmlent to found a Professorship to be
known and called the Bates Professorship of the Diseases of
Women and Children, provided. nevertheless, that said University or College will i-eceive female students to pursue their
studies thereat, and give to them the same advantages as male
students in the Medical Department thereof."
It does not appear that our benefactor ever visited the
University.  So far as we can learn, she was moved to remember us in this generous Ianner by the fact that this University
was one of the first to offer medical education to womlen.
She wished to testify her appreciation of the service thus rendered to her sex, and to enlarge our facilities for medical
education.  There seems good ground to expect that the
legacy will yield $ioo,ooo or more.
Such instances as these now namled of generous regard
for our welfare encourage us to hope that other persons of
liberal intent will be found ere long to aid the State in ministering to our many needs. No investments are inore productive
of permanent good than the endowment of schools of learning.
Many of these have survived the greatest political and social
changes, and bid fair to remainl perpetual fountains of blessing
to mankind.
|AMES B. A.m..lI,.




N'O! VEl1BEA' 11  TING, iS9S..313


APPENDIX A.
A POIINT'MEN'TS,                  R REP0I1  N A'NoN, 1t  S', EItTNS,  ''.   l 'I. 1'T
YEAR E,..)IN(. 'S.M.ER 30. IS)S.
Resicgnations:
At the meeting of Jutle (, 1898, the resiglnation of Elmler A. viiian,
A.B., Instructor in Mathematics, was )resented an(l accepteld.
At the meeting of June 28, IS98, the resignation of Alexis C. Angell,
A.B., LL,.B., I'rofessor of law. was presented aln accepted.
At the meeting of Septembller 20, I898, the resignation of Sidney I).
'Townlev, Sc.l)., I nstructor in.\stronomnv, was presented andl acceplt'dl.
Ieaves of Absence:
At the meeting of ()ctoler 20, I897, lProfessor Mortilier E. Coolev,
M.E,., was granted a short leave of absence, to senre as Chief Elngineer of
the Michigan State Naval Brigade in aiding to bring the '. S. S. \antic to
I)etroit.
At the meeting of January 26, I898, Assistant Professor I)ean C.
Worcester, A.B., was granted leave of absence for the academiic year
1898-99.
At the meeting of Felbruary S8, I898, Juniior Professor George \\'.
Patterson, A.M., S.B., was granted leave of absence for the academic year
1898-99.
At tile mneetinig of March I8, I898, the leave of absence previously
granted to Tobias Diekhoff, \A.l., Instructitor in (Gerl:an, 'was extend(led for
the academic year I898-99.
At the meeting of April 22, I898, lProfessor Mortimer 1'. Cooley, MI..,
was granted leave of absence to tile first of ()ctober, to serve as a volunteer
officer in the United States Navy; and Jiunior '-rofessor Alexander Ziwet,
C.E., was granted leave of absence for the academic year 1898 —9.
At the meeting of May 13, 1898, Professor Charles B. Nancrede, A.M.,
M.D., was granted leave of absence to the first of ()ctober, to serve as volunteer surgeon in the United States Arml; the leave of absence previously
granted to Clarence I. Meader, A.B., Instructor in Latin, was extended for
the academic year I898-99; and Professor Volney M. Spalding, Ph.I)., was
granted leave of absence for the academic year I898-99.
At the meeting of June 9,.898, 'Professor Victor C. Vaughan P'h.l).,
Sc.D., M.)., was granted leave of, alsence to the first of ()ctoher, to serve
as volunteer surgeon in the United States Army.
At the meeting of June 28, I898, Instructor Perry F. Trollwridge,
Ph.B., was granted leave of absence for the academic year I898-99.
At the meeting of September 20, i898, the leaves of absence previously
granted to Professors Cooley and Vaughan, were extended; and Professor




0,4


NO[7 0'IBiI' iLtEET G 7, S&S.


Oscar Ieseure, M.D., who was serving as volunteer surgeon in the United
States Army, was allowed a similar leave of absence beyond the first of
October.
Non-resident Lecturers in the Department of Medicine
and Surgery were appointed at the mneeting of May 13, 1898,
as follows:
William M. Edwards, 1M.1)., Mental Diseases.
Edmund A. Christian, A.B., M.D., Mental Diseases.
James D. Munson, M.I)., Mental Diesess.
Samuel Bell, M.I)., Mlental I)iseases.
Hlenry B. Baker, A.M., I.1)., Administration of lIealtlh laws.
Non-resident Lecturers in the D)eplrtllent of I aw were
appointed at the meeting of May 13, 1898, as follows:
'Ihomnas M. Coolev,  ). l, Interstate (Commllerce.
James I. High, 11..1)., I1njuInctio<ns alnd  Reccivers.
John B. Clavberg, 1 1.B., Mining law.
Melville M\. Bigelow, Ph.)., Insurance.
H-enry H. Swan, A.M., Admliralty.
Frank F. Reed, A.B., Copyright Iaw.
Albert f. Walker, IL.B., Patent Law.
A non-resident Lecturer in the lHomleopathic Medical
College was appointed at the mleeting of October 30, 1897, as
follows:
Oscar R. Long, M.D., MIental I)iseases.
At the meeting of May I3, I898, Special Lecturers in the
Department of Law were appointed as follows:
Victor C. Vaughan, Ph.D., Sc.D., MI.D., Toxicology in its Legal Relations.
Henry C. Adams, Ph.D., The Railroad Problem.
Andrew C. McLaughlin, A.M., LL.B., Constitutional Law and Constitutional listory.
Richard Iudson, A.M., Comparative Constitutional Law.
Joseph H. Drake, A.B., Roman Law..
William J. Herdman, M.D., LL.I)., Neurology, Electrology, and Railway Injuries.
The following lists comprise other appointments, reappointments, and changes of title of members of the Faculties.




NA.O [1BtJ'/R  /lA'A 7\'XG, iS98.


) 15


The Instructors were appointed       for one year, unless a longer
term  is mentioned.      The names of assistants and of others
appointed to positions of lower grade than Instructor are not
here included.
At f//e mleetfiz of- Ocober,o, /S9.
lThe title of Assistant Professor Frederick C. Newcormle, 1"w.I).. was
changed to stand Junior Professor of Botanv.
Alt t/ie I/lertinz of Decr/ber 22, / S7.
Charles A. Rabethge, 1M.D., was appointed Instructor in Dermatology
in the Hlomeopathic Mledical College..At tie viertin(g of J/an ia ll  26, /S9S.
S. lawrence lBigelow, 'h.I)., was appointe(  Instructor in (General
Chemistry.
/At the mieetii-n of /pril 22, /S9S.
The title of Professor \Varren 1'. I omiard, A.B., 1.1)., was cliange(l
to stand Professor of Physiology.
The title of Professor J.P. McM urrich, 'h.D., was changed to stand
Professor of Anatomy and Director of the Anatomical Laboratorv.
The title of Assistant Professor G. C. ltubler, M.D., was changed to
stand Assistant Professor of Anatomy and I)irector of the Ilistological
Iaboratory.
Af the tieeizng- of AbI(j /3, 8/9S.
Appointments were mnade as follows:
Moses Gomberg, Sc.D., Instructor in Organic Chemistry.
Perry F. Trowlridge, Ph.B., Instructor in Organic Chemistry,
Alfred HI. White, A.B., Instructor in Chemical Technology.
Simon M. YutzV, M.D., Instructor in Anatomy.
Frank W. Nagler, B.S., Instructor in Ellectrotherapeutics.
Herbert II. Waite, A.B., Instructor in Bacteriology.
Iouis A. Strauss, Ph.M., Instructor in English for three years.
John S. P. Tatlock, A.M., Instructor in English.
Penoyer L. Sherman, Ph.I)., Instructor in General Chemistry.
James W. Glover, PhI)., Instructor in Mathematics for three years.
Edwin C. Goddard, Ph.B., Instructor in Mathematics for three years.
James B. Pollock, Sc.D., Instructor in Botany.
Wilbur C. Abbott, B.Litt., Instructor in History.
Walter Dennison, A.M., Instructor in Latin.
John R. Effinger, Ph.M., Instructor in French for three years.




316G


}\1T)  I: 'E).1' I:'  i El/   '7 (;ING, /9,9.


Ewald Boucke, Ph.I)., Instructor in Germlan.
Victor E. Francois. Ilstrutctor'in French for three years.
Herbert J. (Gouldling, 1P.S., Instructor in Descriptive (;eometry and
Drawing for thrlee 'ears.
John R. \llen, MEI.I,., Inlstruttor in Mechanical Engineering.
John T. Faig, ME.I, Ins:ructor in Mechanical Engineering.
Carroll D. Jones, E.E., Ihis ructor inl Electrical Engineering.
John N\. I)wver,,I,.M., Instructor in Law.
Albert J. Farrah, I.1.B, Instructor in Law.
Augustus Trowhridile, li. '1), Instructor in Physics.
A4 /iMe meefing oj'f Jue 9, /SS.
Appointments were made as follows:
Benjamin P. Bourland, Ph.l)., Instructor in French.
Colman D. Frank, Ph.IB., Instructor in French.
William 11. Wait, Ph.D., Inst'ructor in Greek, Latin, and Sanskrit.
William H. Butts, A.M., Instructor in Mathematics.
Albert W\.-Whitney, A.B., Instructor in Mathematics.
Ernst J. Fluegel, Ph.D., Instructor in German.
Hlamilton G. Timberlake, A.B., Instructor in Botany.
Julia W. Snow, Ph.)., Instructor in Botany.
John B. Johnston, Ph.B., Instructor in Zoology.
Fanny E. Langdon, M.S., Instructor in Zoology.
Louis P. Hall, I).D.S., Instructor in Dental Anatolmy, (perative
Technique, and Clinical ()Operative I)entistry.
Alt t/e IieeCClli, of J/une 28, /SS.
Appointlments were mlade as follows:
Keene Fitzpatrick, Acting Director of the Gymnasium  for one year.
Robert C. Stevens, A.B., B.S., Instructor in Mechanical Engineering.
Sidney 1). Townley, Sc.I)., Instructor in Astronomy.
Archilald Campbell, Ph.B., Instructor in ()rganic Chemistry.
Atl /lie mieeting'- o/ J/I' 21, 19(8.
Applointments were made as follows:
Aaron V. McAlvay, A.B., 11..B., Professor of law for one year.
John R. Rood, ILL.B., Instructor in,Law.
Shirley W. Smith, B.I.., Instructor in English..I t/ie leeztizg- ol'f Azus /7, '898.
Arthur G. Hall, 1B.S., Instructor in Mathematics for three years.
I lugo P. Thieme, Ph.D., Instructor in French.
Charles A. Rabethge, MN.1)., Instructor in the Gymnasium.




1..\''IEJIE7; i/FEETILG, i8Y8.               3'17
APPENDIX B.
The   following degrees were conferred      during   tle year
October i, I897, to September 30, 1898:
()RI)INA RvY IDE(;REILS.
Bachelor  of  Letters..............................................   56
Bachelor  of  Science  (in  Biology).................................  9
Bachelor of  Science  (in  Chemistry)................................  5
Bachelor of Science (in Electrical Engineering)............... 22
Bachelor of  Science (in  Mechanical  Engilieering).................  14
Bachelor of  Science  (in  Civil Eng eerineeig).........................  20
Bachelor of  Science  (in  Pharmacy)................................  2
B achelor  of  Science.............................................  25
Bachelor of Philosolphy......................................... )o
Bachelor  of  Arts...........................S.................
C ivil  E ngiaee..................................................  2
M. aster  of  letters.............................................. 
M aster  of  Science..............................................  Io
Master of Science  (D)epartment of E:ngineering).....................  2
M aster  of  Philosophy............................................  4
M aster  of Arts...............................................   I5
Doctor of  Philosophy............................................ 
Doctor of Medicine (Department of Medicine and Surgery).......... 72
Bachelor of  aws...............................................200
M aster  of  Law s................................................  4
Pharm aceutical  Chemist.........................................  20
Doctor of IMe-icine (Homoeopathic Medical College)............. 9
Doctor of Dental Surgery................................. 59
I)octor  of  D ental  Science.......................................  2
703
1O)NORARY I)DEREFS.
D octor  of  M edicine............................................  I
Master of Arts................................................ 
Doctor of Iaws.......................................      2
Total.................................................     707
APPENDIX C.
SUIMMARY OF STUDENTS.
DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS.
Holder of Fellowship... 
Resident Graduates.......    70




318g         NO I      llBE' IEE AG, 1898.
Candidates for an Advanced D)egree, enrolled in other Departments.......
Graduates Stud(ing //  A etia..-'I /fi      2
Undergraduates:
Candidates for a Degree.                  I oq
Students not Candidates for a I)cgr-e..  04 -I  3 
DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING.
Resident Graduates.......      3
nlndergradluates........     274  277
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY.
Resident Graduates........   4
Fourth Year Students.......    77
Third Year Students..                 02
Second Year Students.... 
First Year Students... 
Students enrolled in other I)epartments of the University:
Second Year Students in Mledicine.....  12
First Year Students in Medicine...   6 — 437
DEPARTMENT OF LAW,
Resident Graduates.....          4
Third Year Students......  21
Second Year Students....                244
First Year Students...                  25
Special Students.... 
Students enrolled in other Iepartments of the University.  22- - 765
SCHOOL OF PHARMACY.
Resident Graduates....                 5
Undergraduates:
Candidates for a Degree.....64
Students not Candidates for a Iegree..   0 ---  7Q
HOM~EOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE.
Resident Graduates.......   2
Fourth Year Students... 
''hird  Year Students........   10
Second Year Students                        13
First Year Students...                 26
Students enrolled in the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts..                          2 —  6i




NO I EMB ER ME   7'1AmG, 8,gS.           319
COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY.
Resident Graduates....                             4
Seniors.....                               5
Juniors.......74
Freshmen....                                 - 223
31 75
I)educt for names counted more thani once..   b
Total, exclusive of Summer Schools...       114
SUMMER SCHOOLS OF 1898.
In I)epartment of Literature, Science, and the Arts  204
In Department of 1aw...           3 I  35
Deduct for students enrolled in I897-8 in somoe D)epartment of the Universit..           00 — I 35
Grand total....                       249
On motion of Regent Cook the report was accepted and
ordered printed in the minutes, and a thousand copies in
pamphlet form for distribution.
The Treasurer presented and read his annual report
which was accepted and ordered to be printed in the minutes
and bound with the President's report.  The following is the
report.
To the Finance Committee, Board of Regents, University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEN: Herewith T submit my annual report for the fiscal year ending June 3o
1898.
Respectfully,
H. S()U,LE, T'reasurer.
RECEIPTS.
From State Treasurer, acct. General Expenses..   79,406 39..."  "  " Special Appropriations   29,000 oo...."  "  ".    "  Accumulation, 1-6 Mill  20,000 00
"  Earnings and Miscellaneous Sources...  213,265 8I
" Balanc, Overdrawn, June 30, I898..  9,799 52  s551.471 72
D1ISBU RSEMENTS.
To Special Fund Accounts, acct. Legislative Appropriations  32,755 68. Accumulation, i-6 Mill.  24,745 i8
"General Fund, acct. General Expenses...  487,478 50
Balance Overdrawn, July i, 1897...   6,492 36  $i, 47' 72




320


ANO i I1ZAIBER 3/EEI 7NG, i8gS.
GENERAL FUN).
RECEIPTS TO TIHE GENERAl. FUN).


From  Balance, July i, I897
"  State Treasurer, acct. I-6 Mill Tax
1"  "       "  "  University Interest
"  Interest on Deposits 
"  University Hospital Earnings 
"  Homceopathic Hospital Earnings
"Dental College Operating Room Earnings
"  Botanical Laboratory (Sale of Microscopes)
General Library (Sale of Books)
Electric Lighting Plant (Sale of Material)
"  Mechanical Laboratory (Earnings in Shops)
"  Miscellaneous Sources 
From Students' Fees:Literary Department.          S 51,9
'    Sulmmler School     4,8
Medical  "..         19,41
Engineering....,82
Law...     36,I1.".     Summer School  9,
Dental...     1,5
Pharmacy  "..      3,9,
Homceopathic Department.        2,8
Chemical Laboratory..         1 2,1
Hygienic....      2.5
Botanical....       4
Zoological  "..               8
Physiological "
Pathological  ".      1.4
Histological..,6
Anatomical..      2,4
Mechanical  "...
Dental...           71
Electric Engineering Laboratory.  5
Electrotherapeutical               9
Medical Demonstrations...   4,91
Pharmacology.
Gymnasium Lockers...
Women's Gymnasium..           4
Law Lockers
Diplomas.                  6,9
Key Deposits..              2
Drawing Boards..       2
Total.                   $.83,
Fees Refunded...      5,c
Net..                  77,3
Balance Overdrawn, June 30, 1898


S  7,868 20
221,020 46
58,385 93
I.700 20
I8,oi6 24
4,025 5(
4,22-3 37
59 85
12 45
T59 35
164 02
1,8S0 (7   3,)9 348 "4


5 oo
[5 oo
15 00
O5 00
)5 00
35 oo
75 oo
3i o8
57 oS
38 00
68 oo
17 oo
81 oo
70 00
59 oo
55 oo
95 oo
8i oo
21 00
68 oo
60 oo
35 oo
30 oo
12 00
24 00
(95 oo
25 oo0
04 (o $183,324 I()  I83,324 I(
324 i6
)50 54
373 62


6f,248 66
506,789 06


DISBUtRSEMENTS FROM THE GENERAL FPiNl).


To General Pay Roll."  "  "   ". Sutlmmer School
"      "  Expenses  "  "
" Engineering Department Pay Roll
"  '*(  ~Expenses'


>159,025 II
4,365 62  I63,390 73
325 78
37,897 04  37,8y7 04
193 60(




NOVEMBER MAEEI 77A'G, /898.


3-21


To Law Department Piy Roll.     37,522 52
c"         '. I.. Slummer School  850 35 38,372 87
C" "(    Expenses  "                     71 25....      "  Expenses.35I 95
(" " "c   Books.                      2,413 4I
" Medical "  Pay Roll             41,006 70 41,006 70."."    ". Expenses                         1I92 95.     "... Books..                 2,019 77
"Pharmacy and Chemical Department Pay Roll 24,845 42 24,845 42........ Expenses      8,957 89
"Dental Department Pay Roll.12,849 96    I2,849 96.."      ".( Expenses.4,904 18...."    "    Books                         87 3o
"Homoeopathic College Pay Roll.   3,3C0 O0  3,300 oo
"..          " Expenses.                   395 29
(   ".". Books..251 9
"        "..'Transfer to Special Fund  19,310 56
"University Hospital Pay Roll.6,780 75   6,780 75
(..  "   Expenses..2,369 37
"Homreopathic Hospital Pay Roll.  2707 o8  2,707 o8."          ".,Expenses.             7,T65 49  390,161 24
Pay Rolls Total.          $. 33I,Io 55


To Contingent Account
' Repairs
" Fuel 
"Lighting
" Books for General Library 
"Expenses for General,ibrary
" Materia Medica
" Theory and Practice
' Postage
Book Bindery
" Advertising and Printing
" Museumn
"Botany
"Histology
Hygiene
Zoology
"Engineering Shops
" Civil Engineering
Astronomical Observatory
"School Inspection
"Practical Anatomy
" Electrical Engineering (Physics)
" Physiology
" Pathology
" Electrotherapeutics 
" Nervous Diseases
" Insurance
" Waterman Gymnasium
" Teams
" Carpenter Shop
" Women's Gymnasium
" Diplomas
- Geology 
" Surgical Demonstrations
" Latinl




11,277 24
*15381 68
13,972 i8
4,703 56
10,122 33
640 35
33~ 73
99 19
2.562 83
1,745 38
* 2,478 29
524 50
785 I6
544 14,886 83
997 56
795 62
732 96
377 48
624 02
1,886 87
687 06
282 40
458 74
474 05
121 07
346 oo00
448 95
535 52.  8 57
2,121 00
1,077 8o
I87 84
1 35 54
*  *         510 50




322


NAO E.'TiMBER ilZEII 77NG, 1SOS.


To Ophthalmology
" General Chemistry.
' Dermatology
"University Hospital Dormitory
Diseases of Women and Children
Water Supply
"Psychology
"Philosophy.
"Semitic Languages.
"Students' Fees refunded
"Electric Lighting Plant
"Hospital Lighting Plant
"University News Letter
" Alumni Association
New Law Building
Electrical Supplies
" Engineering Iaboratory
"English
Music....
"State Pathologist
" Commencement Expenses
"General Catalogue
"Addition to General L,ibrary




8o 30
2 59
30 95
16,838 14
IC2 14,587 59
268 5()
114 20
18 51
5,95) 54
7. 125  ('
2.448 42,7 76
380 51
20 (64
149 93
410 05
32 20
206 o6
i68 56
(41 40, (2
3 24,,789) o6


SPECIAL FUND ACCOUNTS.
IHOMIEOPATHIC COLI.EGE.
Riceipts.
From State Treasurer
Transfer from General Fund.
Dislb urscentIs.
Balance Overdrawn, July i, 1897
Vouchers
Balance in Treasury, June 3o, i898 
ELECTRIC LIGHT PLANT.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer 
Balance Overdrawn, June 30, 1898 
DisbIu rscoCml ts.


S  6,ooo oo
19,310 56    4 25,31o 56
S I4,360 56
9,350 00
1,6oo 00    S 25,310 56


$ 20,000 00.405 68    > 20,405 68


Vouchers


$ 20,405 68  $ 20,405 68
SUMMER HOSPITAI.S.


From State Treasurer


Recesits.
Disbu rsem'ents.


3,00 00 oo      3,000 oo


Vouchers


3,00ooo oo     3,000 (x
ACCUMULATION OF SAVINGS, LAW BUILD)ING.
Receipts.


From State Treasurer.
Balance Overdrawn, June 30, I898 
i)isbursezents.
Vouchers..


R 20,000 00
4,745 I8    S 24,745 i8


S 24,745 TS   S 24,745 18




XNO! 70IMIBLER  LtE JEING, iSgS.                323
GIFTS AND TRUST FUNDS.
Under this head are included gifts and other funds which the Regents have received
from time to time from benefactors for special purposes, and to which additional amounts
have come into the hands of your treasurer during the year as follows:
By the Alumni a fund to be called Frieze Memorial Fund; by the Graduating Class of
1898 a Scholarship Fund; and the Alumni Society have turned over the Williams Fund
and the M orris Alumni Fund, which funds are detailed fully in this report.
\'WOMEN'S (GYMNAS11'M.
Recc ipts.
Gifts                     6.                       S 1,967 34
Interest.                                             3 78  $  1,97I  12
l isbirf se ntLc Stts.
Balance Overdrawn, July I, 1897                   $ 1,632 47
Vouchers                                                8 00
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 8)8..                  330 65    1,971 12
P 1t.o  l'AIRSONS  Fl't D.
Balance in Treasury, Jly i, 1897...    5   92 67
Interest.                            3 54   '   O6 21
i)iol/'o, r;,,',n/zt.v.
Balance il Treasury. Junte,3,  89....         96 21       ()6  21
(;()E'l'lE  F N N1).
Aeceists..
Balance in Treasury, July I, 1897,.              $    211 00
Interest.......8 05            S   219  05.)i)bA /.t'scI oco/at.
Vouchers......         14  6
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I8)8....     $  204 45  S   219 05
ELISHA J)NE'S CLASSICAL FELLO\\vSHIP FIUN)D
Aeceipfs.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 1897....            77
Interest.......            30
From Mrs. Elisha Jones                                500.  0 oo.  508 07
I)isul.rse mo' nts.
Vouchers....                    S 5 00 o
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1898.               8 07      508 07
)DETRO'{(IT  AlNCH:I.OL.()OGICAI. FUND).
lv'eceits.
Balance in Treasury, July I, 18)7..                 200 00
Gifts.    s...                        902 28
Transfer from '96 Class Memorial Fund.          7 52  $ I,o9 80
I)isbuo'rscc'nots.
Vouchers....,o9 80    I, 1109 80
(CO)Yl COLLECTION.
Recccipts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 1897....      10,769 76
Interest.                                           636 39  $  11,406  15
Disb2r-seinczots.
Vouchers...        4   23
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1898.                10,990 92  $ 11,406 15




324                NO VIEJI   A BE /'R  1ETING, iS9S.
BUHL LAWV LIIBRARY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, 1897....      2,514 88
Interest....                                    70 30,  2,585 i8
lDisb(tsemcnllts.
Vouchers.....                   $   322 65
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1898..      2,262 53  S 2,585 18
SETH HARRISON SCH.-LARSHII FUNI).
Rcceipts.


Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1897
Interest.


$ 25,769 90
1,393 69     $ 27,163 59


Disbu rseIe ntos.
Vouchers..        I,000 00
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1898...  26,163 59  $ 27,63 59
CLASS OF NINETY-FOUR SCHOIARSHIP F1ND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury, July 1, 1897...   64 08
Interest.......          25 92


Subscriptions Paid 
Disbi, 'semen, ts.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1898.


292 70  $  932 70


932 70            932 70


F()ORD-MIESSER FUND.
TLeceipts.
Balance in Treasury, Jul)y, 897...             12,804 62
Interest......         696 66
Bryant Walker, Administrator of Estate Corydon L. Ford    1,500 00  $ 15,001 28
)/isbut rsement s.


Balance in Treasury, Jtune 30, 1898
THE PHII.l.II'S SCHOLARSHIPS lUNl).
Reit' ts.


15.o301 28    < 15,001 28


Balance ill Treasutry, July i, 1897.                         i66 12
Interest....                                    5 85   $   171 97
])i/sblor 'sec'lme zts.
Vouchers....           9 20
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1898.                         162 77   <   171 97
MIISIC HALL FUN1).
R'ce ipts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 1897..                     I,044 86
Interest....                             40 If r    1,0O4 97


Balance in Treasury, June 30, i898 
CLASS OF NINETY-SIX MElMORIA..
ReceCt1s.


I,084 97    $   1,084 97


Balance iln lreasury, July I, 1897...      18 92
Interest.....                          35
Gifts....           152  33  5  171  6o
Disbn r.semenfs.
Vouchers......       145 o8
Transfer to Detroit Archaeological Fund.    7 52
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 1898...      19 oo;  1 71 60o




ANO 1'E/BERA'  EETI /'/ NG, S9S.       '3b
'AIRKIE, IDAVIS & CO. Ftl NI).
Rceitv.ala
Balance in Treasury, July I, I897....  9 62
Interest.......38          S   10  o0.)is iursme c/enIts.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, I898..     0 00 oo   1  00
STEARNS PHtARMACY FELLOWSH()\   IIP FT).
Rece'pts.
Balance in Treasury, July I, 1897....   77
From  Frederick Stearns & Co.....   350 00
Interest......         ou  S  350  78
Disbuzt sein ents.
Vouchers....                   350 00
Balance in T'reasury, June 30, I898...   78    350 78
LIBRARY OF EARLY CHRISTI AN LITERATURE.
Recic6ts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, I897..     26 90
Interest.......         26     27  16
})i'sb.; r sc.o,,ts.
Vouchers......       2  66
Balance in Treasury, Julne 30,188....  6  o   27 i6
JAMES E. SCRIPPS LIBRAIRY   F;-ND.
R'ecei'ts.
Balance in Treasury, July i, 1897....  15       15
/)isb2l'.use'lments.
Balance in Treasury. June 30, 1898...    15  S    15
IFRIEZE MEMORIAL F:UN).
Froml I,. P. Jocelyn, Secretary, Collections from  Graduates  4$ 491 5
Interest on Deposits...                3 66     495 1i
Di.sburlsemeonts.
Vouchers......        8  o5
Balance in 'reasury, June 30, I898..    396 66  S  493 I6
CLASS OF NINETY-EIGHT SCH()IOARSHIl' FUNI).
ReCCip/s.
Fromi Mi arvin \TW. Turner, Collections.  2.  S  '53 30  S  253 30
l)is, z  -ssctcl'nts.
Balance in Treasury, June 3o, 1898...  253 30  $  253 30
VWILLIAMS FUN).
Receizpts.
From  J. M. Crosby, 'Treasurer....  793  14
<  s......14   oo
Interest......          920  59
Loans Paid......             3,29o oo
Rent Collected.......       37  4(0  -  5.055  13
li )/,vbt  me Hitcts.
Voutchers.....          327 9~
Cash Balance in 'reasury June 30, 1898.  4.77 23.  5,055 13
Invoice of Ioans on Mortgages..  7,077 44
"  "Property...     3,53 68
$10,231 12




326                  AN-VEIMBER        1A    E7TING, iSoS.
CLASS OF NINETY-SEVEN SCHOLARSHI- P 'UN1).
Receipts.
Subscriptions..                                        $    134 oo
Interest........           4  43  $   138  43
Disburse ienrts.
Balance in Treasury, June 30, 18)8.                    $   I38 43   $   138 43


Cash from Former Treasurer.
Securities.         (.
Interest on Deposits


MORRIS ALUMNI FUND.
Receiptss..  1,090 74..  i.o o o 1,150 00
5 09  $  2,245 93
38.  I       2.,245 83  $   2,245  83


Balance in Treasury, Junle 30, IS


From    1). 1M. Ferry


Reccit/s.
i)/i,,   rsco-sL'n'is.


S   250 00       250 00


Vouchers....   $  200 00
Balance inl Treastury, Jtune 30, 1898..  50 00.$  250 00
RECAPITUL''ATI()N OF TRUST FUND BLALIANCES.




Women's Gymnasium Fund...     Cash
Philo Parsons,.       "
Goethe                "
Elisha Jones Fellowship Fund... 
Coyl Collection.. 
"     "           '..  *. Securities
Buhl Law Library..            Cash
Seth Harrison Scholarship.         "... "                   "... Securities
Ninety-Four Class Scholarship Fund..     Cash
Ford-Messer 
~" ~               (   ~"<.. Securities
Phillips Scholarships        ".         -  ash
Music Hall 
Class of Ninety-Six Memorial  ".. 
Parke, Davis & Co 
Stearns Pharmacy Fellowship 
Library of Early Christian Literatture Fundt.
James E. Scripps Library. 
Frieze Memorial         ".         "
Class of Ninety-Seven Scholarship   " 
"        "           i            ". Securities
Class of Ninety-Eight Scholarship   '.      Cash
Williams. 
("                              "'. Securities
"                                i"i. Property
Morris Alumni                                   Cash..... " e~~"                   -. Securities
D. M. Ferry Botanical.     Cash


330 65           330 65
96 21           96 21
204 45         204 45
8    07        8 07
990 92
10,000 oo       10,990 92
2,262 53        2,262 53
5,663 59
20,500 00       26,I63 59
932 70         932 70
5,ooI 28
1o 000 00       15,001 28
162 77         162 77
1,084 97        1,084 97
19 00           19 00
10 00           10 0()
78              78
6 50            6 50
I5              15
396 66          396 66
63 43
75 0oo          38 43
253 30          253 30
4,727 23
7,077 44
3,I53 68       14,958 35,0o95 83
1,150 oo        2,245 83
50 oo           50 oo




$75,417 14


Aggregate:
Cash...23,461 02
Securities...        44,802 44
Property at cost...  3,53 68-75,47  14




.NO I'>'/.B:A J i111 TAI\, /Sg8.:'27
APPENDIX TO TREASURER'S REPORT.
I. Contributors to the Ninety-Four Class Scholarship Fund dur.'n; the
year I897-I898:
1. I. IIaug, Battle Creek..... —..-. --- —-- ------  S_ oo
F. A. Sager, Urbana, Ill -I-_ —__ — -__-___ _._ __    oo
l)elia S. Bailey, Detroit ---— __ --  --._ -_ —_ ___._..  oo
Jamie Maud Blanchard, los Angeles, Cal. -----— _ — _-__ - _  oo
Oscar Greulich, Milwaukee, Wis _ __ --- —--- -.  ___  5 oo
Delos F. Wilcox, New York, N. V.- ____ ___ --- —-.... _ _ __5 oo
J. R. Nelson ----. -. ------        - __     _     5 oo
Joseph Weare, Hlamilton, Ont --- --. --- —-------      oo
R. W. Newton, Pittslurg, Pa --  -  ---- -___. ___.  5 oo
Geo.. 'lTremble, Ellsworth, Kansas -------------— _.._-  oo
1). F. Lyons, Fenton ---- -------  ---—. --- —---- -  5 oo
S. A. Smith, Wilton, N. I1. --- —-...  —.-. --- — ---- -  oo
B. H. Kroeze --—. —.-  -- ---  -- ---- - - --  -.  2 oo
W. M. Hamilton, Ann Arbor.  -----------              5 oo
A. A. Prentice, Kalamazoo ---- --- -- ----. --       5 oo
W. L. Whitney, Moline, 111. --- -- --    -10 oo
Clare Briggs, Battle Creek ---- ------------------ -.   oo
A. J. ILadd, Shabbona, Ill ___. ____  __._ —____     5 oo
F. M. Elliott, Pontiac --—.-. --- —-----. —10 30
Oscar Greulich, Milwaukee, Wis --- —._ ---.- -.___  _- 5 oo
Sara M. Riggs, Cedar Falls, [a. --- —-----.. —.     5 oo
F. L. Osenburg, Elsinore, Cal 2 — -_- --               80
Ielos F. Wilcox, Cleveland, ()_ — ----..-    5 oo
Anna Trainor, Iron River,-..,. ---------- --          30
G. L. Davison, South Chicago, Ill-  __ __ -26 So
F. W. Newton, Ann Arbor-. --- —--                3 oo
A. R. Crittenden, Ypsilanti ------- ------—. — -----  oo
I). O. Miller, Greenfield, Ohio --- ——.- ------ — _  _ _  5 oo
R. E. Jones, Webster City, Iowa-_ -.. --- -. _  _ _     oo 
D. F. Lyons, Knapp, Wis  -         - --- — __ __ -   5 oo
C. T. Tremble, Ellsworth, Kansas ---- - -. — -.     oo
Sarah M. Howard, Kalamazoo, ----- -------.. --- —  -- 5 oo
Joseph Weare, Hamilton, Ont _ -_ --- __ — __ —.-____   oo
E. C. Woodruff, Chicago, Ill _. —_____  -----------    o
B. L. Haug, Battle Creek.. —. —.... --  ------         o
Lucy E. Textor, Grand Haven,-_ —. — _- - _._ _ --— _  oo
Jesse C. Moore ----  —.   __ __.   _-  _   _    5 g
A. J. Pieters, Washington, D. C. ---- — ____           oo 
V. W. Mills, Chicago, Il1-. ----  -—.- -- ------    4 oo
Delia S. Bailey Cobb, Detroit __ — _ ____ -_         5 oo
Jeannette Caldwell Mix, Chicago, Il11. — --—.-.. - _...5 o
H. O. Chapoton --- —,-     -__ __.. —_  20 6o
Total _ —_-_- --- __-  __  _. _ _._  ___   __. S  292  70




:,28.XV 71/MLE AI T.NG1, 88./ 
2. Contribtlt.)rs to the NWo:en's GNlmnasium fromn July I, 1897, to June
30, I898:
Ilypatia Club, I)etro t --—.-. ---- -S                 14 00
G. Teckor                          -- - - ---- ---       5 oo
W\ixom Club. aro --- —------------- -5 oo
Women's Club, Detroit -- ----  --—. ---—.   -         35 oo
A. Lovell-                                              50 oo
Saginaw Tourist Clubl                                    4 25
Mrs. E. J. \Veeks, Jackson. --------- ----  --------       50
Mrs. C. C. Bloomfield, Jackson ---- - -- ------------    I 00
Mrs. J. M. Root, Jackson --. ----- ---------- - --       75
Mrs. 1P. L. oomis, Jackson ------             - --      I 00
Women's Historical Club, l)e'roit ----. --- --             oo0
W\omen's Club, Saginaw.- -------- —.-.               10 00
Catherine Coman, W\ellesley College-._..-__            I 00
Mrs. J. A. Watling ------—. ----—.-.. I 00
Women's League, Battle (reek -----------                43 77
VWomen's Club, Battle Creek -- -------------            IO 70
Ladies' Tuesday Clulb, Saginaw  _ __- _ _  ___  __       7 2I
I). M. Ferry, Detroit ----                             I,ooo 00
Women's 'ourist Club, Jackson ------                     I..  oo
Zetama Club, Detroit._  -_   _ ----_-                    5 oo
Women's Club, Dowagiac.-1 — __0- ---—._ —  _             00
Wednesday History Club, )etroit --- —--------             6 oo
Alice Snyder, Collections  ----    -  -------       -   44 75
I)etroit Review Club ---- -.... --- -------.      -   12 75
Clio Club, Detroit.. --- —. -----  ---  -----—.. ---  2 69
Ladies' Literary Club, Ypsilanti - _I.___  _ _.   _        oo0
Oratorical Association _ ----  - _ —_  _.                1 7 75
Saginaw Reading Clul 1) _ --- —---  —. --- -_.- -   -        50 oo
Study Club, Ypsilanti _-_  __  __.. ____     _   _       5 oo
Winter Club, Saginaw, E. S.      _-  __-   _   __ -      4 50
Mosaic Club, Jackson -------------                       3 82
Twentieth Century Club, I)etroit _ --- —---- -...77 50
Mrs. 11. Pilcher — -_  -  _______          ____ -  _       50
\psilanti ILadies' I.iterarv Societ!y ----  -- - ---      5 25
Monday Club, St. Louis    _ _ _ -- -                -    7 I5
Clara A. Avery_ ---.._   --------      ------.   -     500 oo
Women's Club, I-lowell -— _ ---   -----— __.____          5 oo0
Twentieth Century Club, Detroit. --- — --- --—.. — ---    50
Total -_____._  __ ___. __ ______,967 34
Regent Fletcher submitted     the  following resolution
Resolved, that the Treasurer shall not draw his check for the
payment of any bill until he has a receipted voucher for the
same in his possession.




ANO  Z'JVE BER' 1IE A TIVG, iS9 S.


329


A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Aves —Regents Cook, I)ean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and ILawton.
Regents Farr and Butterfield not voting.
'l'he Board then took recess until 2 o'clock 1.. M.
A TE: RNOO)(N SESSI().
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock P. 1.
On motion of Regent Fletcher- it was voted that the
Departmlent of Physics be allowed to retain the lathe now
used by the instrument maker.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the 1Executive Comirmittee were requested to report at the next meeting the necessary action to be taken by the Board, in order that another
volume of the General Catalogue may issue in 1901.
On motion of Regent F'arr it was voted that the $200
shown in the Budget for a Secretary of the l.,aw D)epartmrent.
be paid to Professor E. FU. Jolnson as Secretary.
On motion of Regent Farr the degree of lBachelor of
I,aws was conferred uplon fMr. John Cazwood, of the class
of I898.
On motion of Regent Fletcher tle Auditing Board were
requested to put down a carpet in the Regents' rooms by the
full vote of the Board.
Regent Fletcher moved that the Auditing Board be
authorized to purchase 262 yards of cocoa matting for use in
the Law Library, and 300 new arms for the old recitation
seats in the Iecture Rooms.
The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes ----Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, IButterfield, and
lawton.
Nays-None.
Regent Fletcher moved that tle Secretary be authorized
to contract with the McCray Refrigerator and Cold Storage
Co., of Detroit, to put in a new ice box in the University




330


AN'O!I0 11J/BER  /lEEl TINCGG, SQS.


— lospital, according to plans and specifications, for the suni of
$375.   The vote was as follows:
Ayes —Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Falr, 3Buttertield, and
1.awton.
Nays ---None.
On   motion   of Regent Keifer the       Superintendent of
Buildings and (rounds was instructed to put gas lights in Dr.
Carrow's dark rooii at the University Hospital.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the requisition of Professor
Reighard for the purchase of birds for the Mtuseuln was laid
on the table.
On motion    of Regent Kiefer, $210 was added to the
budget of the Chemical Laboratory, to cover the expense of
fitting up twelve new    talles in the Ialoratorv of General
Chemlistry, by the full vote of the Board.
(n motion     of Regent Kiefer, 1)r. Ilingmgann, asvlutlr
)athologist, was allowed such use of the mIicrotomies in the
Pathological,aboratory as Inav l)e necessary for his work.
Regent Farr sublmitted tle following- resolution, which
was adopted by the full Board:
W\HEREAS, Unlder the provisions of the will of Dr. Bates her aunt.
Miss Hanners, is devised an annuity of $1,200; and it appearing that Miss
-Tanners is in want of such annuity, and the executor declining to pay the
same in quarterly installments or otherwise without the consent of the
Board of Regents, permission is hereby given to said executor to pay Miss
Hanners said annuity from the death of I)r. Bates without waiting for the
settlement of said estate.
Regent Farr submlitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
WHEREAS, It is claimed that )Dr. Bates held during her lifetime a
mortgage against her home church in Port Chester, N. V.; and it is further
claimed that said church was further indebted, and that it was agreed by
Dr. Bates that if a subscription could be made of sufficient funds to clear
said church from debt above the amount of her miortgage, that Dr. Bates
would subscribe the amount of her said mortgage and cancel the same, and
W~HEREAS, It is claimed that a sufficient sum has been raised to lift
the debt, except said mortgage, from said church, and that the conditions
required before cancellation of said mortgage have been performed by said
church. Now, therefore, it is
Resolved, That the matter be referred to the executor of said estate,




XNOE!.I1BElA' ItEL TI 7AG, /S9S.


3 31


and if lie is satisfied that 1)r. lates did agree to discharge said moirtgage
upon the performance of certain conditions which have been performed by
said church, then said executor is herel)y authorized to discharge said mortgage, and this shall be his authlority.
Regent Farr presented and read the following cotmmunication fromn  Mr. H. 1). Smith, executor of the estate of the
late Dr. Bates:
PIINCE'TON, I.l.., Noveml)er ii, I898.
G:ORi(;,; A. FAR.R, Es0.,
Grand HIaven, Michigan.
Dear S'ir.-I anm directed bv Mr. I lodgskini, of the firm of \indgate
& Cullen, of New York. my atto(rnevs in the settlement of the estate of the
late I)r. Bates, of Port Chester, to write to vou for some instructions in relation to properties in ()Omaha, Nelraska. At the time of Dr. Bates' death
there were two mortgages which hald Ieen foreclosed, the stay had run out,
and they were ready to be advertised for sale; b)ut she (lied at that time
and I have not lmknown what to (lo with tlhem since, 'lThev are still in the
same condition. Sliall I advertise and sell them? 'hle property is absolutely sure to come on the mortgage. W\\hom shall I take the c(eed to?  I
don't know whether I have a right to take it to the University or not, and
would like your instruction on the q(uestion.
There are also two other mortgages owneed )b the estate upon propertv in ()Imaha upon x\li cll there has h eei nio interest paid for a long time.
and which must also come on the miortgages. I was in Port Chester anid
saw I)r. Bates about a xweek before her deathl, and in talking of these
two mortgages, slie told lme to b)uy tle equity if I could get deeds for S200
a piece, hliicli I think I could. Before I reacled home I received news
of her deatli, so this matter is standing. What would you advise doing
in this case? Can we buy the equity or must the mortgages lbe foreclosedl?
It is cheaper to buy than to foreclose.
Please advise me (m tile above )points, and ol)lige,
Yours truly,
I). W. Smill'rt.
On motion of Regent Flarr, the Secretary was directed to
instruct Mr. Smith, the executor, to proceed as follows: In
case of the first two mort-gages mlentioned, tlat lie advertise
and sell the property, taking the deeds in the name of the
Regents of the University of Michigan.       Referring to the last
two mortgages mentioned in the communication, the executor
is authorized to pulrcllase the equity for two h-undred dollars
each, provided there are no liens against the property; but if
there are other liens, then he should foreclose and sell, letting
the deeds run as stated above.




339


NO!ULiIBAE  IIIJ&'TAYJ, IS.


On motion of Regent Kiefer, Walter H. Iowmanl, D).D.S.,
was appointed Assistant in Operative Dentistry to take the
place of Dr. J.. Minerd, resigned, at a salary of 400o.  TIhe
appointment was made for one year from Oc(tober 1, i898, by
the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher the Secretary was instructed
to pay the Variety Iron Works, of Cleveland, Ohio, SI.ooo on
their contract for the structural iron for the roof of the Main
Building, and the Sturtevant Coml)anyl, of Chicago, $2,000 on
their contract for heating anld ventilatilng the New Iaw Building.
Regent Fletcher moved that $300 be appropriated for the
purpose of repairing and enlarging the ice houses at the
Hospitals.  The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes ---Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcler, Farr, IButtertield, and
1 awton.
Navs ---Noine.
O)n motion of IReent l letclier tile Superintendent of
Building-s anid Grounds was requested to get )ids for all woodwork necessary to finish the   llarlbour (lyllmi nsiulllm, except tlie
basemnent, the wood-work to lIe  anulfa(tllured and ready to be
put in place.
Regent Lawton presented and read tle followinol colllmunication from tlie Faculty of the I)epartment of Iiterature,
Science, and the Arts, and the degrees indicated were conferred upon the persons nallmed, in accordance witlh tlle recollmmlendation of tlie laculty.
TO THF.I HONORABI., 1' Bt),OA) OF K.;KN'IS:
GENT:l IEMEN-: — I have the hcnllor to informl \our I lonoralle Bo(ldv
that the Faculty of Iliterature. Science, and the Arts recomlllmeI1nd to yLou the
following named persons for the dlegrees in(ticatedl.
I enry IElmore \Wilkinson for iBachelor of Ietters.
Charles Jacob Rice for Bachelor of Science (in Chelllistrv).
Karl Krenkell Stevens for Bachelor of Science (in Chemistry).
Abraham Van Zwaluwenburg( for Bachelor of Science.
\illiam Morgan Case Bryan for Master of Science.
Respectful l subl)mitteld
I'. R. 1KPot'()N'rT  Registrar.




AY) I '1V/ 1<AiP1   \.I/sg.


(n motion of Regent Lawton it was voted that the following re-distribution of the work in the Zoological Laboratory, made necessary tb the resignation of Mr. John H. McClellan, be made.   The changes ordered do not involve any
addition to the pay roll of the department, and the termn of
service for each is for the remainder of the College year
(beginning November I).
Mr. Ernest Cleverdon to be Assistant in Zoology. Salary at the rate
of $250 per year.
Robert T. Young, B.S., Assistant in Zoology. Salary at tle rate of
$200 per year.
Mr. Leon J. Cole, Assistant in Zoology. Salarv at tle rate of S50 per
year.
On   motion   of Regent     Butterfield the Secretary   was
requested to call the attention of the several departments to
the rule of the Board requiring all communications to reach
the Board (through the President) at least ten days before each
meeting, in order that they may have proper consideration.
Regent Lawton presented and read the following cotlmunication fronm Professor I.. I )emmlon.
T') THE HONORABILE, THEI OARD OF IEiGENTS:
Through the generosity of the lon. I)exter M. Ferry, of Detroit, a
noteworthy addition has just bleen made to the General I ilrarv. It consists
of a very full set of the originals of Matthew Arnold's works. including the
extremely rare volumes of 1849 (The Straved Reveller) and of 1852 (Elmpedocles on Aetna). The latter of these was withdrawn from circulation
by the author before fifty copies ha(d been sold, and was reprinted only at
the solicitation of Robert Browning fifteen years later.  Among other
rareties are the Poems, 2v., I853-55, with the scarce Prefaces; ()n Translating Homer, 2v., I861-62; New Poems, I867; Culture and Anarchy, I869.
The cost of the entire set of nineteen volumies was one hundred dollars.
ISAAC\ N. I)D:EIMONx.
On motion of Regent Iawton the President was requested
to transmit the thanks of the Board to the Hon. l)exter M.
Ferry for his valuable gift to the (eneral Library.
Regent Dean presented an elegantly bound volume containing the record and the biographies of the Class of 1849,
transmitted to the Board through Doctor Edmund Andrews,
of Chicago, President of the class.




,.. J~4.131       Nfl)~X V/1M131BA! JI/'AT/ilVC;, i.


Regent Dean submitted the following resolution which
was adopted by the unanimous vote of the Board:
Resolvedl, That the University of Michigan accelpts this volulle con —
taining the record and biographies of her sons of the Class of I849, u11po
the conditions named by I)octor ELdmiund Andrews, IPresident of the Class,
viz: That in accepting it, this volume becomes the property of the University of Michigan, and that it shall lIe kept in the I ibrarv for (general
reference, and that it is never to 1)e loaned or taken therefrom with tlhe
single exception, that upon the occasion of the reunion of the class on its
50th anniversary at Ann Arbor in the year 1899 it may ce taken to the
place where the reunion is held, the volume to he returned to the l ibrarv
immediately after the close of the reunion.
Resolvedl, That the University of Michigan tenders its thanks to her
beloved sons of the Class of 1849 for making her the possesso(r of this
precious record, and pledges them that she will carefully guard a(nd keep it
for the benefit of coming generations.
Regent Dean presented two volumtes of I,oval L egon
Papers, which   were accepted    and   placed in the (eneral
I,ibrary.
The Law Faculty reported that the expenses attending
the public exercises in commemoration of the comupletion and
opening of the new Law Building would be about $400. Tlhev
asked the Board to divide the expense with the Facult if they
could see their way clear to do so.
Regent Fletcher mioved that the sum!l of S250 be app)ropriated for that purlpose, and the motion was carried by tile
unanimous vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the contract of Henry
Carew & Co., for the erection and completion of the,a\v
Building, was accepted and the Secretary was authorized to
make a settlement with the said contractors, reserving $250 to
cover some unfinished work, and the Secretary was authorized
to deliver to the said contractors their personal bond for the
performance of the contract.
The Board then adjourned to Wednesday, D)ecemlll)er 2t,
at io o'clock, A. M.
JAMES H. \VADF,
SE( R t TA1R V.




DECEMBER MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, DECEMBER 21, I 88. 
The Board assembled in the room of the President at o1
o'clock A. M.
Present, Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr,
Cocker, and Lawton.
Absent, Regent Butterfield.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were on lnotion of Regent Cook approved and ordered printed.
Sundry communications which had reached the President
were placed in the hands of appropriate conmmittees of the
Board for consideration.
On motion of Regent Cook, the President was requested
to transllit the thanks of the Board for two bound volumes of
Loyal Legion Papers presented to the General Library by
Col. Henry S. Dean.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution which
was adopted.
Resolved, ''hat the Finance Committee shall be authorized to make
such loans of University money left to it bv bequest as the\ may deem
desirable, and that all such loans shall be reported to the Board of Regents
at the next meeting following.
On motion of Regent Farr, the degree of Bachelor of
Laws was conferred uplon IMr. Colin Percy Camtpbell in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Law.
On motion of Regent Lawton, the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds was directed to lay a new floor of




/I)/A'CA/' / ',//7Ai; 1 '.\ 1, ',  SS.


Georgia pine in tie room in the Museumll to he used for the
Stearns Collection, at a cost of $75.
Regent Cook moved that the salary of Dr. WN. B. Hinsdale l)e mlade $2,000 for the Professorship and $,000ooo as  ean
of the I)eparttlent in accordance with the resolution of the
Board adopted at the Septelmber meeting, 1895.
A call vote resulted as follows:
Ayes- -Regents Cook, Dean, Fletcher, and Ilawton.
Nays —Regents Kiefer and Cocker.
Not voting —Regent Farr.
Regent Kiefer moved that the Auditing Board he authorized to purclhase a one horse power motor for tlhe use of the
Physiological Laboratory at a cost of $So. and that the budget
fund be increased b\ that amount.
It was so ordered 1b the full vote of tlie Board.
The Commiittee on Buildings and (Grounds witl Regent
Kiefer were requested to examnine the old. laundr-y buildino- at
the Hospitals and ascertain what it will cost to put it in condition to receive patients afflicted with contagious diseases.
(n mlotion of Regent Kiefer, a Certificate of (raduation
was conferred upon Miss Bertha H. Dietzel, she having coImpleted thie course in the Training, School for Nurses in the Universit Hospital, and the President and Secretary were authorized to issue the said certificate and attach the seal of the
University.
'l'he Board tlen took a recess until 2 o'clock l. M.
AF\ TERNOON SESSIO()N.
(n motion of Regent D)ean, it was voted that whlen tlle
Board adjourn it adjourn to January r7th, at io o'clock A. M.
Regent Kiefer submlitted tle following resolution wlhich
was adopted:
/'esolved, That the Superintendent of the Universitvy Hospital is herewith ordered to regulate the temperature in the wards, halls, and private
rooms as much as possible, to place thermometers in all tle rooms, wards,
and halls and to record the temperature every two hours in such roomls,




D)ECA'E'I.i/AA 1' E  IiNt, 89S.


0).    I


wards, and halls as are in use. Also to change the open registers so that
they may be regulated by valves, and report the deficiencies in the heating
apparatus, and recommend such improvements as he mav deem necessary
after consulting with the Chief Engineer.
The Board then went into executive session to hear the
relort of Professor W. H. Pettee who had been employed by
the Board to audit the accounts of the Treasurer and the Secretary.  The report was accepted and placed on file.
Regent Cocker sublitted the following resolution which
was adopted:
'esolved, Tlhat the President and the Secretary of the Board of Regents
be authorized under the direction of the Finance Committee to sell and convey any lands now obtained by foreclosure under the \\illiams and Fellowship funds and to lease any property in these two funds belonging to and
held by said Board of Regents.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the President and Secretary of the Board of Regents
shall be and are herely authorized to discharge any! and all mortgages on
payment thereof.
Regent Cocker mioved tlat the title of John E. (ralnrud,
Ph.D., be changed frot      " Assistant in Latin" to "'Instructor
in Latin " without change in salary.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes —Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Farr, Cocker, and I.awtoli.
Nays —lRegent Fletclher.
On mlotion of Regent Cocker, the degree of 3Bachelor of
Ietters was conferred upon     Miss Hannah     Emlily Kieth il
accordance with the recotmllendation of the Faculty of the
Departmlent of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
Professor Pettee appeared before the Board and stu)bmitted an estimate, in detail, of the probable cost of issuing the
second volutme of the General Catalotgue in   90o1.  Whereupon
Regent Cook mloved that the suul of $5,ooo, or so tnuch thereof
as may be necessary, be appropriated for that purl)ose, and




:-"38


)DECAiLBE/t' _ iAEY/'B  (,7VING, iSoS.


that $I,ooo of the said sum be made available during the coCning year, and the balance from time to time as the work progresses.
'The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Cook, I)ean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, Cocker, and
Iawton.
Navs — None.
Regent (ocker presented and read a comllunication from
Professor Kelsey and others, asking the Board to alppoint a
Professor of the Fine Arts.
The communication was laid on the table.
Regent Cocker moved that the proceedings of the Schoolmasters' Club be published as a sul)plement to the News
Letter at a cost not exceeding $70.
The motion was carried by a full vote of the Board.
Regent Cocker read a colmmlunication froml the Factltv
of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts asking
the Board fully to adopt the sulmmer school as an integral
part of the University, and to assume all responsibility for its
mrnanagement and maintenance.  The Board signified their
willingness to comply with the request.  TheN asked the
Faculty to formulate a plan of work in detail for the school,
and subl)it the same at the next!eeting of the Board for
a pproval.
(n motion of Regent Cocker, the President was requested
to transmit the thanks of the Board to H. A. Wetzel of I)etroit
for a fine relief cast of the moon presented to the Astronomical
Observatory.
(n motion of Regent Farr, the Secretary was authorized
to purchase and put in place 700 new arms on the old recitation seats in the Law Building.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Auditing Board were
authorized to purchase one acetylene lamp, generator, and
stand, one projection curtain, and one framle for curtain, to
be used by the department of Botany and others, in illustrating




DJICECEAIBE R MlEETIANG, 8 98.


3t3:9


lectures to be delivered before the Farmers' Clubs, and other
organizations in the State, the cost not to exceed $22.50.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was authorized to pay Spier & Roehm, Architects, $Too for professional
services on the new Law Building, and $250 on account of
roof on Main Building.
The President reported that the Hon. Dexter IM. Ferry,
of Detroit, and Mr. A. C. Bartlett, of Chicago, had contributed
$150 each- to the Oratorical Association to be used as testimonials to the honor debaters in this year's contests; also $30
from Mr. Hugo Pam, of the class of 1892, for the same purpose. On motion the President was requested to transmit the
thanks of the Board to the persons named for their generous
gifts.
A. Hild & Co., of Detroit, a subcontractor on the new
Law Building claims to have lost $400 on his contract to ceil
the two large lecture rooms in said building and asked the
Board to reimburse him in that amount. The Board declined
to consider the claim, as they could only deal with Henry
Carew & Co., the original contractors.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Committee on Engineering were requested to investigate the management of the
Engineering Shops and report at the next meeting of the Board.
Regent Kiefer reported that it would require $200 to fit up
the old laundry building at the Hospitals as an emergency ward.
That sum was appropriated by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farn, Cocker, anld lawton.
Nays-None.
Regent Lawton reported that the collection of Indian
Implements owned by Dr. W. B. Hinsdale was, in his judgment, a fine collection and should be furnished a place in the
museum.
The Board then adjourned to Tuesday, January i7th,
at Io o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




JANUARY MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MIICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, JANUARY 17, 1899. 5
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at io o'clock
A. M.
Present, Regents Cook, Dean, Butterfield, Cocker, and
Lawton.
Absent, Regents Kiefer, Fletcher, and Farr.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Cook, approved and ordered
printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the Board
for consideration.
The President gave notice of the receipt of a collection
of two hundred rare coins, presented to the University by Mr.
William Lambert Dorr, of Federal Point, Florida.
On motion the President was requested to transmit the
cordial thanks of the Board to Mr. Dorr for this valuable gift
to the collections of the University.
The President presented and read the following communication from Dr. C. B. Nancrede:
ANN ARBOR, Mich., Dec. 31, 1898.
To THE IHONORABIE, THE BOARI) OF RIEGENTS:
I have herewith the honor to request you to accept upon the part of
the University, for use in the University Hospital, an operating table and
the instrument-and dressings-sterilizers, which have been used by myself
and colleagues in the hospital service for some years past.
As these were purchased solely for the use of the University Iospital,
and are essential to proper care of the patients, I herewith donate them to
the institution, the original cost having been over $1oo.oo.
CHAS. B. NANCREDE, Prof. of Surgery.




342              JANUAR Y IMEE TING, 899.
On motion the gift was accepted, and the President was
requested to convey the thanks of the Board to Dr. Nancrede.
Regent Dean, chairman        of  the   special  committee
appointed to investigate the working of the engineering shop,
reported progress, and asked that the committee be allowed
until the next meeting of the Board to make their final report.
The request was granted.
Regent Cook moved that Dr. Joseph H. Ball be appointed
as assistant to the Professor of Ophthalmology in the Homceopathic Hospital without salary, and that $Ioo   be appropriated
for the purpose of procuring obstetrical cases for the clinics.
The motion was carried by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Lawton it was voted that the collection of Indian relics belonging to Dr. W. B. Hinsdale be
installed in the Museum.
Regent Cocker submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted by the unanimous vote of the Board:
Resolved, That the thanks of this Board be returned to Frederick
Stearns, Esq., of Detroit, for his gift to the University of his very valuable
collection of musical instruments, which represent the musical art of several
centuries and of many lands, and that we have pleasure in complying with
his request to place the collection in a fire-proof room in the Iuseum.
Resolved, That we also thank Mr. Stearns for the further gift of new
cases in which to install the collection.
Regent Butterfield presented the following coinimunication from Professor Carhart, and the request therein contained
was granted:
UNIVERSIrTY oF MIICIIGA -,
ANN ARBOR, JANUARY 14, 1899. )
DR. JAMES B. ANGELL, PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY:
DEAR DOCTOR ANGELL: —May I ask you to kindly present to the
Board of Regents my request for a year's leave of absence under the usual
conditions applying to full professors. The leave asked for is for the academic year I899-I900.
The present year will complete my thirteenth year of continuous service
here. Next year Professor Patterson will be back, and it will be easier to
provide for the work for the coming year than at a later period. The




JANUAR Y MEE TING, i899.


343


same teaching force will probably be continued, substituting Professor Patterson for myself.
It is my intention to spend the year abroad if my request for leave of
absence is granted.             Very truly yours,
HENRY S. CARHART.
On motion of Regent Cook the Secretary was authorized
to furnish the necessary pulleys, shafting, and labor to install
the new motor in the Physiological Laboratory, and charge
the expense to the budget fund of that department.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the Finance Committee
were requested to confer with the Auditor General as to the
method of drawing money from       the State by the University.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the Board went into
executive session.
Regent Butterfield presented and read the following
communication     from   the  Faculty   of  the  Department of
Literature, Science, and Arts, and the recommendations therein
contained were adopted by the board:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., January I7, I899.
To THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
GENTLEMEN:-I have the honor to communicate to your Honorable
Body the accompanying recommendations, which the Faculty adopted at the
last meeting and beg you to sanction:
The President and Advisory Committee appointed to assist him in
preparing a plan for carrying on the Summer School in pursuance of the
action taken by the Board of Regents at its last meeting, submit the following:
First. It is recommended that the Board of Regents establish the
following schedule of salaries for such members of the Faculty of Literature, Science, and Arts as may teach in the Summer School:
I. Professors and junior professors, one hundred dollars a course.
2. Assistant professors and instructors of the higher grade, seventyfive dollars a course.
3. Other instructors, fifty dollars a course.
The term course, as here used, means five hours a week for the full
period that the school continues in session.
Second. It is recommended that the Board of Regents appoint the
Faculty in the usual manner that appointments are made in the University.
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DEPONT.




344


JANUARY MEETING, 1899.


On motion of Regent Cocker Professor J. O. Reed was
appointed Chairman, and E. H. Mensel Secretary of the
Summer School at a salary of $Ioo each, by the full vote of
the Board.
The request of Professor J. H. Drake for leave of absence
was laid on the table until the next meeting.
Regent Cocker moved that J. E. Bolles & Co., of Detroit,.
be awarded the contract to furnish and put in place the book
racks in the new addition to the Library Building for the sumn
of $2,350, they being the lowest bidders; also $I25 for one
flight of stairs.
The motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Cook, Dean, Butterfield, Cocker, and Lawton.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Butterfield it was voted that the
University extend an invitation to the Committee in charge
of the Farmers' Institutes, to hold their next Annual Roundup at the University.
Regent Butterfield moved that Phillips & Co., of Detroit,
be awarded the contract for making the changes in the Musetum
as shown on the plans submitted to the Building Committee,
for the sum of $400. These changes are made necessary in
order to accommodate the Stearns collection.
It was so ordered by the vote of the Board.
On motion the Secretary was directed to write to John
Scott that if he cannot furnish the detailed plans for the
finish of the Womans' Building at once, the Board will employ
some other person to do the work.
On motion the Board adjourned to meet at the call of
the President to meet the Legislative Committee.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




FEBRUARY MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, FEBRUARY 16, 1899.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at 4 o'clock
P. M.
Present, Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Cocker, and Farr.
Absent, Regents Fletcher, Butterfield, and Lawton.
The reading of the minutes of the last meeting was
deferred until the next meeting.
On motion of Regent Kiefer the degree of Doctor of
Dental Surgery was conferred upon Carl Hans Lebert in
accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the
Department of Dental Surgery.
Regent Kiefer presented and      read  the following communication from the Director of the Chemical Laboratory, and
the recommendations therein contained were approved by the
full vote of the Board.
ANN' ARBOR, MICH., February I5, I899.
To THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
GENTLEMEN:-At the close of the First Semester, two of the assistants
in this Laboratory have asked release, to enable them to accept permanent
positions of advantage in chemical technology, and in both cases I think
the release should be given.  Mr. H. E. Brown, assistant for full time at
$Soo, goes as chemist of a branch of the extensive works for manufacture
of Portland Cement in this state.  He has been some time engaged to
begin when his place at the works should be ready. To fill this vacancy
for the Second Semester I recommend the appointment of two Assistants
in Qualitative Analysis, for half time each, at $I25 for the Semester (the
salary of both to be the same as that of Mr. Brown for the same time)
namely: Mr. William Melville and Mr. Fred Leroy Woods.
Mr. Walter A. Nivling, assistant for partial duty, is offered the place
of Chemist of a new starch factory at Sioux City, Iowa, his home, and
must take the place now or lose the opportunity.  To fill this vacancy I




346


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1899.


recommend the appointment of Henry W. Hess, B. S., '98, as Assistant in
Qualitative Chemistry, at the rate of $200 a year, the salary of the previous
incumbent.
Very respectfully,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT.
The President recommended the following list of
Teachers in the Summer School and the appointments were
made by the full vote of the Board.
ANN ARBOR, MICH., February I6, 1899.
To THE REGENTS:
I respectfully recommend the appointment of the following men as
teachers in the Summer School for this year:
PROFESSORS. ---W. W. Beman, A. C. McLaughlin, T. C. Trueblood,
J. C. Rolfe, G. A. Hench.
JUNIOR PROFESSORS. —F. MI. Taylor. F. N. Scott.
ASSISTANT PROFESSORS. —J. 0. Reed, J. L. Markley.
INSTRUCTORS. —G. 0. Higley, D. M. Lichty, E. H. Mensel, K. E. Guthe,
A. G. Hall, L. A. Strauss, H. J. Goulding, J. R. Effinger, \W. B. Pillsbury,
Walter Dennison, H. H. Waite, J. E. Granrud.
ASSISTANTS. —A. Campbell, C. L. Bliss.
J. B. ANGEIL.
Permission was given to use the imprint of the University on the Catalogue of Musical Instruments to be issued
by Mr. Frederick Stearns, of Detroit, he having presented the
entire collection to the University.
At the request of Professor J. O. Schlotterbeck the Senior
Pharmacy Class were permitted to plant thirty young trees on
the Campus.
The question of appointing a Special Examiner to inspect
the Diploma Schools of the State was referred to the Literary
Committee for consideration.
The President presented the request of Professor J. H.
Drake for a leave of absence from the Spring Vacation in
April until the end of the College Year, he to arrange for his
work during his absence.
On motion of Regent Cocker the request was granted.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1899.


347


Professor A. H. Lloyd asked for a leave of absence from
May until the end of the College year, without diminution of
salary, for the purpose of going abroad.
On motion the request was laid on the table until the
next meeting.
The President presented the request of the Fruit and
Flower Mission for the use of the Gymnasium    for the purpose
of giving a dance at twenty-five cents for each person.    The
Board agreed with the President that the Gymnasium should
not be used for dancing where less than one dollar a couple
was charged.
The President presented the following      communication
and the Board requested him to extend the thanks of the
Board to the persons named therein for their valuable gifts to
the University:
ANN ARBOR, MIICH., February 6, I899.
THE HONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS:
During the past month there have been presented to the Museum of
Pharmacognosy the following articles:
From Dr. Chas. Mohr, of Mobile, Ala.a —A pine tree trunk five feet long, showing the American method
of boxing and bleeding pine trees for turpentine.
b-Twenty large samples of all the turpentine products manufactured
in the South.
(This is a very complete and valuable collection.)
From Muth Bros., Manufacturing Pharmacists, Baltimore, NMd.An original package of Aloes from East Africa consisting of a
monkey skin into which the hot liquid Aloes is poured and allowed to
harden.
(This is a rare specimen and therefore valuable.)
I respectfully ask that the thanks of the Board be extended to these
parties.
Respectfully,
J. 0. SCILOTTERBECK.
The President presented and read the following comrmunication from Instructor V. E. Francois, and the leave of
absence was granted, the salary to lapse during his absence.




48


FEBRUAR Y MEETING, 1899.


ANN ARBOR, MICH., January 30, I899..
DR. JAMES B. ANGELL, PRESIDENT UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN:
DEAR SIR:-Permit me to ask of you the kindness that you present
to the Board of Regents my request for a leave of absence for the academic
year I899-I900, my intention being to take my Doctor's Degree at the
University of Brussels, and to go to Spain to study Spanish.
Very respectfully yours,
V. E. FRANCOIS,
Instructor in French.
The   Executive   Committee    made the following report
which was approved by the full vote of the Board.
ANN ARBOR, MICH., February 16, I899
To THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
The Executive Committee beg leave to report that on January 23
Mr. P. L. Sherman, Jr., having accepted the position of Secretary to Professor Worcester, appointed Commissioner to visit the Philippine Islands
asked leave of absence until the beginning of the next University year.
The Committee granted his request with the understanding that his salary
lapsed on his departure.  Further, they appointed, on the recommendation
of Professor Freer, Mr. C. L. Briggs Instructor in Chemistry during the
absence of Mr. Sherman at the usual salary of $900 a year.
Respectfully submitted,
JAMES B. ANGELL,
W. J. COCKER.
On motion of Regent Kiefer the Board          adjourned to
March 2 at io o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




MARCH MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, MARCH 2, I899.
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at ic o'clock
A. M.
Present, Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Farr, and Cocker.
Absent, Regents Fletcher, Butterfield, and Lawton.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last two meetings
which were, on motion of Regent Dean, approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry communications which had reached the President
were placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the
Board for consideration.
On motion of Regent Farr, Eugene C. Sullivan, B. S.,
Archibald Campbell, Ph. M., and Erwin E. Ewell, Ph. C., were
appointed to give instruction in the summer school.
On motion of Regent Dean, the degree of Civil Engineer
was conferred upon Julius Kahn, B. S., in accordance with
the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of
Engineering.
On motion of Regent Cocker, an appropriation of $30
was made for the pirpose of printing the memorial exercises
of Judge Cooley and Professor Walter, by the full vote of the
Board.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the degree of Doctor of
Dental Surgery was conferred upon Mr. John William Smoots
in accordance with the recommendation of the Dental Faculty.
The University Hospital Committee gave notice that
Miss Ida Marie Tracy, Cora E. Hess, Marie Agnes Breiten



350


MARCH MEETING, 1899.


bach, and Josephine Halverson, had passed satisfactory examinations in the Training School for Nurses, and were recommended for Certificates of Graduation.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the President and Secretary
were authorized to issue the said Certificates and attach the
seal of the University thereto.
The Hospital Committee asked the Board to authorize
the appointment of four additional nurses in the Hospital.
The request was referred to the Budget Committee.
On motion of Regent Cocker, Mr. Clement C. Lemon,
A. B., was appointed Assistant in Zoilogy for the second
semester, in place of Miss Juliet Butler, who has taken a position at the University of Illinois, the compensation to be $150
for the semester.
The request of Professor Reighard that the salary of one
of the assistants in the Laboratory be increased, was referred
to the Finance Commiittee for consideration.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the Secretary was directed
to write the B. F. Sturtevant Co. that the working of their
plant for heating and ventilating the new Law Building was
not satisfactory, and ask them to give the matter their iminediate attention.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the request of the Graduate School for $500 for advertising purposes was referred to
the Budget Committee for consideration.
Regent Farr submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the President and Secretary are hereby authorized and
empowered to sign all requisitions upon the Auditor General for money
standing to the credit of the University in the State Treasury, as the same
may be from time to time required, and as the same shall be appropriated
by the Board of Regents.
Regent Dean, Chairman of the Engineering Committee
charged with the duty of investigating the working of the
Engineering Shops, reported progress and asked for further
time, which was granted.




MARCH MEETING, 1899.


351


On motion of Regent Kiefer, the Board took a recess
until 2:30 o'clock p. iM.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
On motion of Regent Cocker, the Superintendent of
Buildings and Grounds was directed to overhaul the smoke
stack at the Chemical Laboratory for the purpose of providing
better ventilation, at a cost not exceeding $200.
The vote on Regent Cocker's motion was unanimous.
Regent Kiefer moved that in the event of the Legislature
appropriating $Ioo,ooo for a scientific building, that the said
building shall be set apart for the exclusive use of the Laboratories in the Department of Medicine and Surgery. It was
so ordered by the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Board adjourned to
Wednesday, March 29th, at o1 o'clock A. 1M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




MARCH MEETING.
(ADJOURNED MEETING.)
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, MIARCH 29, I899. 
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at io o'clock
A. M.
Present, Regents Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Butterfield, Farr,
and Lawton.
Absent, Regents Cook and Cocker.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Dean, approved and ordered
printed.
Sundry communications which had reached the President
were placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the
Board for consideration.
Regent Dean moved that the resolution passed at the
last meeting of the Board, by which the new Scientific building was set apart for the exclusive use of the Laboratories in
the Department of Medicine and Surgery be rescinded. The
vote was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Dean, Fletcher, Butterfield, Farr, and Lawton.
Nays-Regent Kiefer.
Regent Fletcher then moved that the resolution be
expunged from the records.
Ayes —Regents Dean, Fletcher, Butterfield, and Lawton.
Nays-Regents Kiefer and Farr.
The President presented and read the following comnunication from Professor Freer:




354


MARCH MEETING, 1899.


ANN ARBOR, March 26th, I899.
To THE HONORABLE, THE BOARD OF REGENTS:
GENTLEMEN:-1 have the honor of informing you that Mr. Chas. F.
Brush, of Cleveland, has decided to give the University a liquid air plant
to cost not more than $I,200. The arrangements as to the type of machine
and its place of purchase have all been made, so that it only remains with
you to accept the gift before placing the definite order. The apparatus will
use three and one-half horse power during its operation, but its operation
can be confined to those hours when our plant has no great calls upon it.
This plant will probably reach Ann Arbor about October the first, and I
beg leave that the Board direct Mr. Reeve to assist me in every way in
having it properly placed in the basement of the Chemical ILaloratorv.
As far as I know, we shall be the first of American Universities to possess
such a plant. I am
Yours, very respectfully,
PAUL C. FREER.
On motion the Board accepted the gift and the President
was requested to transmit the cordial thanks of the Board to
Mr. Brush for his valuable gift to the University.
The President announced a gift of $200, by Mr. Franklin
H. Walker, of Detroit, for the purchase of books for the
Latin Department.    The President was requested to convey
to Mr. Walker the thanks of the Board for his generous gift.
The President presented and read the following report
of the   action of the    Executive   Committee, which      was
approved:
ANN ARBOR, March 29, I899.
TO THE REGENTS:
The Executive Committee, having learned that Professor Stanley
was so ill that his work could not be continued by him after March 9th
decided to grant him leave of absence the remainder of the semester, and
to appoint Hermann A. Zeitz, of the School of Music, as Instructor in
Music, without compensation, to the end of the academic year.
JAMES B. ANGELL,
R. W. BUTTERFIELD,
R. N. COOK.
WILLIAM J. COCKER,
The President read the following communication from
Professor D. C. Worcester and his leave of absence was
extended to October ist next:




3MARCH MEETING, 1899.


HONG KONG, February 24, I899.
To THE HONORABLE BOARD OF REGENTS,
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.:
GENTLEMEN: —My appointment as a member of the Presidential
Commission to the Philippine Islands came so suddenly, and the time at
my disposal before leaving Ann Arbor was so short, that many things
which should have been attended to were almost necessarily left undone,
and I neglected to communicate to you my change of plan.   I trust,
however, that the Board will feel that I acted wisely in accepting the
appointment.
I cannot at present tell how long my services may ble required in the
Philippines, and shall be glad if you will allow my leave to stand until the
first of October next.  Before that time I shall, I trust, be able to see
further into the future than I can at present. As soon as matters take
definite shape I will communicate with you. M\eanwlile, I can only say
that at the termination of my present leave of absence I shall be entirely
willing to leave the matter of my future connection with the University in
the hands of the head of my Department and your honorable Board.
TVery respectfully,
DE:AN C. WO RCESTE1R.
Regent Fletcher stated that Mrs. Catherine A. Kellogg,
of Detroit, was desirous of endowing a chair in the University
to  be filled by a woman      of acknowledged      ability.  She
desired to place in the hands of the Regents at this time the
sum of $1o,ooo for that purpose, with the probability of more
in the near future.  The Board voted to accept the gift, and
authorized Regent Fletcher to      make all necessary arrangenents with Mrs. Kellogg.
Regent Fletcher submitted the following bids for furnishing the finish for the Woman's Gymnnalsiumn ready to be put
in place, according to the specifications:
F. Letellier  &  Co., Grand  Rapids................  $3,369  71
Avery  &   Co.,  Saginaw.........................  3,655  oo
Luick  Bros., Ann  Arbor.........................  3,514  87
On motion of Regent Fletcher the contract was awarded
to F. Letellier & Co., of Grand Rapids.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the Library Committee




356


MARCH MEETING, 1899.


of the Faculty was heard in relation to the needs of the
General Library.
Regent Fletcher submitted the following resolution which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the expenses of any one away from Ann Arbor be not
paid by the University unless authorized by the Board or by the President,
and that no Professor or any one connected with the University is authorized to speak for the Board, without special authority by said Board, or by
the President.
On   motion   of Regent Fletcher, the     Budget of the
Homceopathic Department for the current year was increased
$2,000, and the Budget of the Department of Medicine and
Surgery by $ioo, by the full vote of the Board.
On motion the Board took a recess until 2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON        SESSION.
The Board re-assembled at 2 o'clock p. M.
On motion of Regent Dean, Regent Farr was requested
to go to Omaha, Nebraska, and examine the property in that
city covered by loans from the Bates estate.
The President announced that Mr. Peter White of Marquette had given $400 for a Fellowship in American History,
which will give assistance to the chair.  The Board requested
the President to transmit their thanks to Mr. White for his
generous gift.
Regent Fletcher moved that the Secretary be authorized
to insure our seven high pressure boilers in the Hartford Steam
Boiler Insurance Company for three years, taking a blanket
policy of $25,000, with a limit to any one loss of $I5,000.
The motion was carried by the full vote of the Board.
Regent Kiefer submitted the following resolutions, which
were adopted by the Board:
Resolvzed, That the Treasurer is hereby authorized to extend the loan
to James H-obine for a period of five years at five per cent. interest.
Resolve(d, 'That the Treasurer be authorized to loan to Carl Everding
$i,ooo at six per cent. taking a second mortgage on the property already
mortgaged to the University of Michigan for $2,500.




MARCH MEETING, 1899.                357
The request of Dr. C. B. Nancrede for permission to
reside in Detroit was laid on the table.
Regent Lawton moved that the investigation to be made
of the Engineering Shops be made on the 24th of April,
before the full Board. It was so ordered.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, Instructor J. R. Allen
was granted leave of absence for the remainder of the semester if necessary, on account of ill health.
The request of H. I. Weinstein for the use of the Gymnasium, without compensation, by the Athletic Association,
for the purpose of giving a dance was denied.
On motion the Board adjourned to Tuesday, April 25,
I899, at Io o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




APRIL MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIIIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, April 25, 1899. 5
The Board assembled in the Regents' room, at o1 o'clock
A. M.
Present, Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, and
Lawton.
Absent, Regents Cocker and Butterfield.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Kiefer, apl)roved and ordered
printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
referred to appropriate committees of the Board for consideration.
On motion of Regent Farr, the Board went into executive
session.
Regent Dean presented and read the following communication from Professor C. G. Taylor, and the resignation w\as
accepted by the full vote of the Board:
ANN ARBOR, APRII 13, 1899.
DEAN.OF THE ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT, UNIVERSITIY OF MICIIIGAN:
DEAR SIR:-I received your communication of this date. I wish to
tender you my resignation as Superintendent of the Engineering Shops, to
take effect Oct. I, 1899. Thanking you for your very kind acts, I remain,
Yours truly,
C. G. TAYLOR.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Dean of the Engineering Department was requested to ask for the resignation
of all the employees in the Engineering Shops to take effect
June 30, I899.




360


APRIL MEETING, 1899.


The   President presented and read      the following cornmunication from     the National Spironieter Company, of New
York, and the Board directed that the thanks of the Board be
transmitted to the Company for their gift to the Gytmnasiunm.
NeWl; YORK, April I2th, 1899.
1ION. JAMES B. ANGELL, PRESIIDENT, UNIVERSITY OF MICII(GAN.
SIR:-We have shipped by express. charges prepaid, two of our
Standard Spirometers for the use of the University Gymnasiums, and trust
they will prove acceptable gifts.
Yours truly,
A. G. IBOWEN, General Manager.
Regent Fletcher, who was authorized at the last meeting
to make all necessary arrangements with a lady of Detroit,
who had signified her desire to endow      a chair for women in
the University, read the following conmmunication:
To THE PRESIDENT ANI) REGNTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICI(IGAN.
The subject most closely interesting me now-because it seems the
most important as regards the future of the race —is the education of womanhood. The world needs a higher and more useful type. May it not )e
promoted through a study of their own peculiar characteristics and endowments —its undeveloped possibilities and a thoghtful survey of the responsibilities inherent in their constitution?
A chair in the University to be filled by a woman of acknowledged
ability, with high ideals respecting the character and aims of her sex, as
well as tactful methods of influencing them, seems almost a necessity. Tlhe
co-operation of broad-minded scientific men should be heartily welcomed by
way of lectures or other modes of instruction when feasible, and all methods subject to the approval of the proper authorities.
While it will be always understood the first object of this endowment
is the enlightenment of the highest and most responsible elements of
womanhood, any other branch of study may be added to her duties except
physical culture or gymnasium work.
If the University will accept in prospective an endowment of not less
than thirty-five thousand dollars for this purpose with the accompanying
restrictions, the writer would like to initiate the movement by a gift of
ten thousand dollars to be paid by or before January, 900o. Interest to be
added to the principal, and name of present donor to be withheld till the
whole amount is raised.




APRIL MEETING, 1899.                        361
In grateful recognition of parents whose small patrimony made possil)le a nucleus for this gift, as well as the generous and careful provision of
one whose name will appear, I am
Fel). Ist, 1899.                  (Here signature of donor.)
1)DETROIT, M\arch 30, I899.
I hereby give to the University of Michigan the two notes of live
thousand dollars each, dated March I5th instant, due January Ist, I900,
signed by R. A. Alger and payable at the First National Bank of I)etroit.
This gift is subject to the uses and purposes designated in the paper hereto
attached. Drawn and signed by me, and dated February Ist, I899. Copies
of the notes above referred to are also hereto attached.
(lere signature of donor.)
Received for collection for account of the University of Michigan the
above (lescribed notes.
March 30th, I899.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK, I)etroit.
By JoMIN T. IICrI), Cashier.
On motion of Regent Farr the gift was accepted upon
the conditions named in the foregoing instrument, and tle
President was requested to convey to the donor the cordial
thanks of the Board for her generous gift to the University.
Regent Farr submtitted     the following    resolution which
was adopted by the unanimous vote of the Board:
Resolved, That the executor of the Bates estate is hereby authorized
to pay $400 for the equity of redemption on the south thirty-five (35) feet
of lot two (2) block six (6) in Patrick's addition in the city of ()maha,
Nebraska; also that the executor is herely authorized to compromise at
the sum of $3,000, the claim of Dr. Eastman against the estate of the late
Dr. Elizabeth Bates, for Medical services rendered the said Dr. Bates (luring
her lifetime.
On motion of Regent Dean, the Board took a recess until
2 o'clock P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
On motion    of Regent Fletcher, Regent Dean iwas called
to the chair in the absence of the President.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the consideration of the
budget was postponed until the next meeting.




362              APRIL MEETING, 189,9.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the sum   of $25 was
appropriated for the purpose of employing additional help to
hang the pictures in the Art Gallery.
On motion of Regent Fletcher, the Secretary was authorized to purchase six fire extinguishers, by the full vote of the
Board.
Regent Fletcher moved that the sum of $400 be appropriated for the purpose of laying cement walks around the Law
Building. The motion was carried as follows:
Ayes-Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, Farr, and Lawton.
Nays-None.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




MAY MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICIIG(AN, 
ANN ARBOR, May II, 1899. 
The Board assembled in the Regents' room at io o'clock
A. M.
Present, Regents Dean, Kiefer, Butterfield, Farr and
Lawton.
Absent, Regents Cook, Fletcher and Cocker.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting, which
were, on motion of Regent Kiefer approved and ordered
printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
referred to appropriate committees of the Board for consideration.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the Board went into
executive session.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, Professor M. L. D'Ooge
was granted leave of absence for the next college year, his
salary to continue upon the condition that he provide for his
work in the department of Greek.
On motion the open session was resumed.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the Treasurer was authorized to extend for a period of three years at 5 per cent. the
two mortgage notes of $3,500 and $7,000 respectively, made
by J. Habin, executor and trustee, on property in the city of
Detroit, said notes being dated March I4th, 1896, the original
interest being 6 per cent.
Also to extend for a period of three years the mortgage
of $5,000 given by F. P. B. Sands, executor and trustee, upon




:6/W.              MA Y MEETING, 1899.
property in the city of Detroit, said mortgage being dated
May i6th, 1890, at 6 per cent.
The Junior Law Class petitioned the Board to establish
in the Law Department a course in shorthand.   On Imotion of
Regent Farr, the request was denied.
Regent Dean presented the resignation of D)r. E'. B.
Maynard as Superintendent of the Hoinoeopathic Hospital,
which was accepted.
On motion of Regent Kiefer, the Board took a recess
until 2 o'clock P. I.
AFTiERNOON      SESSION.
Regent Cook arrived.
Regent Dean presented and read the resignation of Mr.
W. L. Miggett as Assistant Engineer, which was accepted.
On notion of Regent Butterfield, it was voted that the
special assistants in the Engineering Shops shall be elml)loyed
and discharged by the Superintendent of Shops with the consent and approval of the Dean of the Engineering Department;
they shall be employed by the day, and their wages shall be
fixed by the Dean, and their time shall be at the disposal of
the University; the I)ean of tie Department of Engineering
shall have general supervision over the Engineering Shops.
Regent Butterfield sul)bitted the following resolutions,
which were adopted:
W EHI' IRAS: The Good Government Clulb offers the lRegents the suma of
Five tiiundred Dollars, with tle request that they appropriate the annual
income of that sum for a prize for the best essay on some theme connected
with the subject of Good Government, therefore,
Resolved, That we accept the gift with thanks to the Clul), and that we
devote it to the purpose named by the Club.
Resolvedl, That the Professor of Political Economy, the l)ean of the
Law Departmnent and the Professor of Tlistory I)e appointed a colmmittee
to choose themes for the essays and to award the prize, which shall be known
as the Good Government Clubt Prize.




4 -MA Y MEETI NG, 1899.                   8,7)"
Regent Dean presented the resignation of Mrs. I. G.
Fournier as Principal of the Training School, and Matron of
the Homoeopathic Hospital, and on motion the resignation
was accepted.
On motion of Regent Dean, the following telnl)orary appointments were made in the Homloeopathic Hospital by the
full vote of the Board:
Mr. R. L. Johnson to be Superintendent of the Hospital at a salary of
$40 per month.
Miss Bertha J. Bryant to be Principal of the Training School at a salary
of $35 per month.
Mrs. Myra 0. Runnelson to be Matron at a salary of $25 per month.
On motion of Regent Lawton, Mr. Fred P. Jordan, Assistant in the Library, was granted leave of absence froin June
Ist to September ist next.
Regent Butterfield submitted    the following resolution.
which was adopted:
Resolved, That the Chairmen of both Medical Committees of the Board
be requested to report at the next meeting, a statement showing the items
of the pay roll, and expenses of both Hospitals, including material and
supplies, and the number of patients from October Ist, I898, and the in
come from the same by months.
On motion of Regent Farr the Board adjourned to Friday, June 9th, at io o'clock, A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
SECRETARY.




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING.


UNIVERSITY OF MICIIl(;AN, )
ANN ARIO1R, June 20, I899. 
The Board assembled in the Regents' roonm at io o'clock
A. M.
Present, Regents Cook, Dean, Kiefer, Fletcher, and
Lawton.
Absent, Regents Butterfield, Cocker, and Farr.
The Secretary read the minutes of the last meeting which
were, on motion of Regent Kiefer, approved and ordered
printed.
Communications which had reached the President were
placed in the hands of appropriate committees of the Board
for consideration.
Communications were received from the several Faculties
recommending candidates for degrees to be conferred on
Commencement day, and on motion of the chairmen of the
appropriate commiittees the recommlendations wee al)l)roved,
and the degrees conferred as indicated in the lists given, by
the full vote of the Board.


DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS.
BACIHE OR ()1 1ETTERS.
Mary Anderson,                   Levi Orville I)avis,
Frank Jones Arbuckle,            Charles Fisher I)ell)ridge,
Jennie Bogner,                   Alice Jovita I ickey,
Charleb John Borchardt,          Flora Elsie lill,
Frank Egbert Bryant,             Percy Albert Ilimes,
Bertha Grinnell Buell,           Charles Benjamin Hole,
Alice Gertrude Burdsal,          Carl Tenry lbershoff,
Mary Ruth Butts Carson,          Fred Lewis Ingraham, IL.-.,
Bessie Isabella Cole,            May Selma Jaehnig,




368


ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, I8sv.


Percy Wall Jones,
Albert Henry Keith,
Elsa King,
Horace Kitchel,
James Lawrence Kocher,
John Stuart Lathers,
Mary Eleanor Lennon,
John Loeffler,
Ray James McColl,
William Lyman Mack,
Agnes MacNaughton,
Maud McVoy,
Effie Clare Mann,
Lida Chenoweth Martil,
Charles William Mlickens,
Jessie Curry Mighell,
Fanny Theresa Nichols,


Flora Estelle Parker,
(live Blanche Phillips,
Rodolphe Ransom Reilly,
Frederick Eugene Rheinfrank,
Irving Washington Riegelman,
Clifford (riffith Roe,
Ilarley Hlalsted Scclcy,
Arthur Dickev Stansell,
Wellington I). Sterling,
James Stuart Taylor,
Nellie Thomson,
Carrie L. Tower,
Henry Tupper,
Ethelberta \Villiams,
Ida Masy WVimer,
Artllur Robert Nistrand.


5I


BACIIELOR OF SCIENCE (IN BIOLOGY).


Arthur Harold Benefiel,
Earle Mason Brown,
George Edwards Fay,


Thomas Alvin Neal,
Paul ()liver.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN CtIE1MISS 1).


Luther Clarendon Carpenter,
Edmund Claude Champion,
Ralph Hugh Page,


George E. Rogers,
Roy Burnett Smith,
Carl Sundstroim.             6


BACHEIOR OF SCIENCE.


Francis Leon Bauer,
Philip Albert Bennett,
Stewart Henry Burnham,
Grace Chloe Cartwright,
Lelia Merrilla Childs,
Alphonso Morton Clover,
Harold Dunbar Corbusier,
Walter Galpin Curtis,
Lydia Maria Adams DeWitt,
Stephen Arnold Douglass,
Ida Mae Durkee,
Estelle Helen Fox,
Mabel Caroline Gale,
Herbert Charles Gore,
John Wistar Harris,
Royal Barnhart Ilovey,
Fred Joseph Johnson,
Demeter Kalinoff,
Keith Kennedy,


Charles Wolcott Kent,
Evangeline Lodge I.and,
Ellen Hart Littlefield,
Henry Iarrison Lovell,
Leila Knickerbocker M\cCotter,
Herbert Jay McCrearv,
Samuel Ottmar Mast,
Louallen Frederick Miller,
MI.)., Howard Daniel Minchin,
Grace Darling Peele,
Frank Ira Post,
Winnifred Josephine Robinson,
Ruth Louise Smith,
Willard John Stone,
Anna Zita Sullivan,
Nelson Walter Thompson,
Grace Belle Ward,
Milton W. Wimer.


)7




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 1899.


BACHELOR OF PHIIOSOPHIY.


Florence Lavinia Abbott,
Cuthbert Clarke Adams,
Guy Henry Albright,
Isabel Adelaide Ballou,
Thomas Beath, Jr.,
John Chester Bills,
Roswell Fairchild Bishop,
George Neil Blatt,
Mary Arvilla Brewer,
Mary Louise Bunker,
Mary Agnes Burton,
Margaret Sprague Carhart,
Martin Henry Carmody,
Helen Frances Clute,
William Alfred Comstock,
Ruie Ann Connor,
Henry Hobart Corwin,
Hiram Charles Dalev.
Howard Richard Ianiels,
Mary Margaret Ehrhorn,
William Richard Fieldhouse,
Helen Daisy Fortaine,
George Washington Furrev,
Lillian Ellen Hadley,
Ida Christine Harbeck,
William Benson IIarrison,
Kate Healy,
Irma Ann Heath,
Henry Heitmann,
Harry Patterson HIerdman,
Eugenia Hobbs,
Cecil McKee Jack,


Helen Louise Kimlin,
Charlotte Mendell Leavitt,
Lilabel Adda Lemon,
James Galbraith MIcllenrv,
Nellie McKay,
Sebern Sylvester MIcVay,
Mary Estelle Marshall,
Albert Taylor Mills,
Paul Moses,
Clifford ILyran Niles,
Mary Elizaleth ()'Connor,
Joe Carlos ()sburn,
Harlow Stafford Person,
Helen May St. John,
Louise Shepard,
Martha Anne Slater,
Evelyn Mary Smith, B.I.., Ilillsdtle
College,
Ina Pamella Taylor,
'. Letitia Thomp)son,
Jefferson Gage Thurber,
Clara Turner,
Edith Augusta VanKleeck,
\illiam Vought,
Frederick Rice Waldron,
May Walnlsley,
Clyde Irvin Webster,
HIugh \hite,
Matthew Peale Whittlesey,
Hlerbert Orlando Wilcox,
Nellie Wilcox,
Martha Elizabeth Wyant.       63


BIACIIELOR OF ARTS.


Mary Ella Abbey,
Marguerite Rose Ascher,
Arthur Frederick Ashbacker,
Eliza Jane Austin,
Anna Morrell Barnard,
Winifred Ernestine Beman,
Cora Louise Bodwell,
Josephine Bowen,
Mabel Mary Brown,
Amelia Louise Carey,
Charles Dean Cool,
Edwin Alfred Davis,
Alice Mabel Donnelly,
John Henry Ehlers,


Grace Sarah Flagg,
Wille Alvin Forward,
James Leslie French,
William Joseph Guthrie,
Florence Slocum I all,
Elizabeth Sheldon II awlcy,
Ieonard Counsellor llonesty,
Winifred Alice Ilu tbell,
Arthur Scott Iludson,
Harry Rogers Hurlbut,
Arthur Mastick lyde,
Burton Branch Johnson,
Rae Ilarman Kiteley,
Eva May Locke,




370


A.-ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 1S899.


Archibald Harold McMillan,
Andrd George Marion,
Frances Winifred M1iller,
Genevieve Elizaleth Mills,
Paul Broadley Moody,
Laura Moore,
Charles Rufus Morey,
Marion Relief Nims,
John Noordewier,
Gustavus Adolphus Ohlinger,
George Fred Paul,
Frances Lillian Petit,
Nancy Seymour Phelps,
Nellie Fuller Rice,
Charles Augustus Riegelman,
Joseph Wright Robinson,
Sadie P. Ryan,


Lucie Abigail Sill,
Francis Morley Stead,
Maude Hayes Thayer,
HIarry Conrad Thurnau,
Lila Turner,
LaRue Van Hook,
M\abel Rebecca VanKleek,
Henry Van Slooten,
Lisla Alice Van Valkenburg,
Gertrude Elisabeth Vaughn,
Leonard D'Ooge Verdier,
Bertha Idell Vincent,
Beulah Stone Weeks,
Jennie Mabel Whittemore,
Roscoe Mark Wood,
(reta Belle Voung,
Theodore Zlinden.


62


MASTER OF LETTERS.


Anna Mary Baker, B.L.,


1Iannah Emily Keith, B.I..


MASTER OF SCIENCE.


Lewis Oliver Atherton, B.S., Albion College,
Henry William Hess, B.S.,


William Hugh Hess, B.S.,
Frances Hinkley, B.S.


MASTER OF PHILOSOPHY.
()scar Reiff Myers, Ph.B.
MASTER OF ARTS.


George Henry Allen, A.B.,
Lewis Clinton Carson, A.B.,
A.B., Harvard Un&iversity,
Christian Frederick Gauss, A.B.,
Walter David Hadzsits, A.B.,
Alice Sarah Hlussey, A.B., Vassar
College,
Lambert Lincoln Jackson, A.B.,
Stephen Herbert Langdon, A.B.,


Clement Charles Lemon, A.B.,
Indiana University,
John Hancock McClellan, A.B.,
Norman King Mclnnis, A.B.,
May Cecil Ryan, A.B.,
Henry Ormal Severance, A.B.,
Hudson Sheldon, A.B.,
Loura Bayne Woodruff, A.B.


14


DOCTOR OF PHIIOSOPHY.


Edwin DeBarr, Ph.B.,
John Black Johnston, Ph.B.,


Ella Adelaide Knapp, A.M.,
Paul Ingold Murrill, M.S., State
College of KAentucky.  4-249


DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN ELECTIRICAI ENGINEERIN(;).


James Chivis Armstrong,
Norwood Brayman Ayers,
William Porter Baker,


James Rowland Bibbins,
Burt J. Denman,
John HIathaway Dressel,




ANN UA L J, UNE MEE TING, 1899.


371


George Herbert Gibson,
Harmon Augustus Harris,
Sanford Frank Harris,
Milton Charles Hartman,
Clinton Jerome Hixson,
Lewis Glasgow Ilowlett,
Edwin Adolphus Hughes,
William Leasure Kimmel,


Charles Augustus LaFever,
Ernest Lunn,
William Meek McKee,
John Theodore Mountain,
Ard Ezra Richardson,
Cary Davis Terrell,
Bertram DeWitt Wilber,
Arthur Brvant Wood.


22


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING).


Emanuel Anderson,
Frederic Everart Arnold,
Joseph Aldrich Bursley,
David Fernando Castilla,
William Griswold Chesebrough,
James Walter Clift,
William Lee Cooper,
James LeGrand — orth,


Augustus Joseph Mayworm,
William Lincoln liggett,
Iavid Nathaniel Rosen,
James Thorpe St. Clair, B.S.,
Frank Trott,
Charles Herman W\eideman,
William Roe Weidman,
Clarence Wright \\hitney.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN CIVII ENG(INER).
John Walter Frink Bennett,    Frederick Ruthrauff I oover,
Edwin Warren Conable,         Clarence Warren Noble,
Walter Turney Curtis,         \ellington Roberts,
Bartlett Chase Dickinson,     Arthur Gilbert St. John.
Orra Emmet Heffelbower,
MASTER OF SCIENCE.
Frank Noble Savage, B.S.
CIVIL ENGINEER.
Gardner Stewart Williams, B.S.,  Silas Iliram Woodard, B.S.
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY.
DOCTOR OF MEDICINE.


9


2-50


Florence Elizabeth Allen,
Miranda May Allen,
Alfred Wickham Balsley,
Frances Elizabeth Barrett, B.S.,
Kalamazoo College,
Lester Hayes Beals, A.B.,
Lena Adell Benjamin,
Philip Daggett Bourland, B.S.,
Robert Collyer Bourland, A.B.,
Samuel Robert Boyce, Ph.C.,
Isabel Agnes Bradley,
Frederick William Brown, B.S.,
Bucknell University,
Robert Clayton Buck,
John Everett Burnette,
James Francis Canavan,


Roy Bishop Canfield, A.B.,
Daniel George Castell,
Oscar Elias Chase,
Edwin M. Chauncey,
Clarence George Clark,
Willis Gurdon Cook, B.S.,
Harold Iunbar Corbusier,
John DeLamater Covert,
Galen Greenfield Crozier, B.S.,
William Ralph Cunningham,
Arthur Janes Dresser, B.S., Dar/mout/ College,
Amos Driver,
William Sylvio Durand,
Halle Laura Ewing,
Albert Douglas Foster,




72


XAINIAL.1 JfNE 3fEETINXG, 1899.


Raynor Spalding Freund,
Stuart Eugene Galbraith, B.1.,
Conrad Georg, A.B.,
Milton Lowrie Glenn,
James Gostanian,
George Frank Greenleaf, Jr.,
(vidus Arthur Griffin, 1.S., Fayjetfe
Norme-al University,
WValter Elno Griffin,
\Villiam Page l arlow,
Downey Lamar HI arris,
Irma Irene l-eller,
Levi St. John l   lely,
\Villard lounter llutchings, 13. I,.,
Ierbert Elias Kelly,
LeRoy Wendell King,
Cabot ILull, Jr.,
Theodore Charles Lyster, Ph. 13.,
Calvin Fenwick McDowell,
Mary Crouse McKibbin,
Jackson Lee Martin,
Maude Ethelyn Burt Martin,
Elihu Arthur Martindale, Ph. B.,
fillsdale College,
William H1ampton Matcliett,
Clarence Warren Mehlhop,
John Josiah Mersen, A. M., hlope
College,
William Robert Morrison,
Martin Alvin Mortensen,
William Daniel Mueller,
Hiram Winnett Orr,
Jesse Obed Parker,


John Leon Parker, 1.S.,
Emma Pearson,
Iarvey Newton Peck, B.S., AMichigan Agricultural College,
John Ross Petty,
Charles Banning Porter,
William Gilbert Povey, B.L.,
Floyd IHamilton Randall, 1.S.,
William Bernard Richmond,
Elizabeth Pond Rindlaulb,
Francis Albert Scott,
Joseplh Pearle Seale,
Joseph Sill, A.B.,
Bert Granville Snowv, B.S., ANor/fern
lz(lia,(a NVormal University,
Andrew Lester Swinton, B.S.,
Szymon Szudrawski,
Wesley Ewing Taylor, B.S.,
Clarence A. Traphagen,
Edward Camillo Van De Walker,
Aart Van Westrienen,
Felicie von Autenried,
Frank Stanley Wasielewski,
Alanson Weeks,
Reid A. White,
Ross Chauncey Whitman, A.B.,
Alden Humphrey Williams,
Mary Moore Wolfe, A.B., Bucknell
( University,
Charles Martin Wood,
Frederick Thompson Wright, A.B.,
George Frank Young.
88.


DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
BACHELOR OF,AWS.


Basil Burgess Adams,
Peyton Edmond Alexander,
John Curtis Ammerman,
Clifford Burnham Anderson,
Ray Nelson Anderson,
John Arbenz, Jr., A.B., West Virginia University,
Larson Harvey Arends,
Louis Selk Arnold,
Benjamin Miller Austin,
Oscar Otto Bader,
Verne Wade Badgley,
Frederick Charles Ballard, A.B.,


James Alfred Bardin,
Albert Raymond Barnes,
Richard Marshall Barnhart,
Joseph Milton Barr,
Charles Sumner Beardsley,
Chester Leigh Benedict,
Warren Berkey,
George Estal Bielby,
William James Bigger, Jr.,
Frederic Henry Bowers,
Harold Martin Bowman,
Bert John Bradner, B.L.,
George Corrington Brainerd,




ANN Il UAL.J UAE MIEETING, 1 cS9)9.


373
6~ i '

Frank WVilliamn Brown,
Charles Mumford Bush,
William Henry Caley,
Daniel Dwyer Campbell,
Jose Tomas Canales,
Joseph Knight Carey,
John Andrew Cashel,
Edward D. Caskey,
Edward Henry Cassey,
Arthur Francis Chapman,
Harry Landon Chapman,
William Carlton Chase,
Charles James Napoleon Chernoch,
Albert H. Christenson,
Percy Clarke Church,
Henry Cottman Churchman,
H[azlett Norton Clark,
Henry Tefft Clarke, Jr., Ph.lB.,
Unziversity of Chicoago,
Frederick William Backus Coleman, A.B.,
Harry Collison,
Harley June Cortright,
Louis Convers Cramton,
Clifford Waldorf Crandall, B.S.,
Adrian College,
Herman Wenger Danforth,
Daniel Edward Dannenberg,
Clarence Newton I)avidson,
Charles Pugh Davis, B.L.,
Mervin Day, B.S., Ohio  oromaol
University,
Thomas Roland Dean, A.B.,
State College of Ktentutcky,
I)avid Francis Dillon, A.B., Tufts
College,
Thomas Dooling,
Myron Elmer Douglas,
Harry Brandt Draa,
George Julius Dreiske,
Frank Gifford Irenning, B.S.,
Wszashb-urn Colleg-e,
Jacob D. Duback, LL.B., University of Oregon,
Robert Mack Dye,
Thomas Boyd Dysart,
Thomas Edwards, Jr.,
John Edward Egan,
William David Ellsworth,


Travis Elmore,
Iarold Hunter Emmons, A.B.,
Joseph John Ethier,
Thomas Leon Everett,
Frank Archibald Fairburn,
Edward Richard Feckenscher,
H-arry Anthony Fenton, A.B.,
illiavii University,
Oren Henderson Fisher, LL.B.,
LUniversity of Indianapolis,
Arthur Lyle Fitch,
Leo Trov Flansburg,
George Preston Fogle, B.S.,
Georgetown College,
James Milton Fuller,
Arthur William Ganschow,
W\infred Sutton Gilbert,
William John Gillett,
Ilarry ILeith Goodbread,
Edwin Charles Goddard, Ph.B.,
Charles Coy Green,
Lcech Agnew Grove, A.lB., Lake
Fo]rest University,
\Wilson Benjamin Haight,
Benjamin Howard Halstead, A.B.,
In dian a Un iv.ersify,
Joseph Gordon Ilamblen, Jr.,
Samuel Alain Harper,
George D)eWitt Harris,
Frederic Harry,
John Michael HIaverty,
Albert C. Healy,
Frederick Willard Hleatherly,
Ernest John H[einze,
James Madison Hervey,
Horace H. IHess,
Henry Clinton Hill, A.B., Bowdoin College,
James Ralph HIogg,
Lemuel Homer Ilole,
Cornelius Nicholas HIollerich,
Robert Edward Hyde,
(rville Kiger Jones,
William Kehoe,
Martin Van Kellogg,
Paul Courtland King,
Gerrit William Kooyers,
Marsh Euen Lanmbert,
Cary Dayton Landis,




374


ANNX UAL,~JUNE 3I1FET1It, S<1.


\\'illiam Joe Lanier, A.B., Bet/Ael
College,
William James Larmour,
Mortimer Ben Levy,
Moses Montefiore Levy,
John 1. Lewis, Jr.,
Albert D. Leyhe,
Almon HIenderson Linn,
William David Lloycld,
Archer Frederick Lowe,
Henry Cornelius Lund,
Hilliard Graham Iyle,
William Lee McConnell, B.S.,
Fsteslminzster College,
Edward McCormack,
William George McCune,
Charles F. MXcDaniel,
Francis Thomas McDonald,
John Gaily McKelvy,
Milton James McVean,
Allen Clare Malloy,
Carl Edgar Mapes, A.B.,
Olivet College,
Fred Byron Marshall,
Thomas Jackson, Marshall,
John Aaron Mlatthews,
Stanley M. Matthews, B.I.,
Webb Perfet Matthews,
Harold Cassius Mendelson,
Fredd Rial Miller, A.B., Hillsdale College,
John Oliver Miller,
William Ray Moss,
Edwin Jacob Mosser, A.M3.,
Miuhlenberg College,
Samuel Isaac Motter,
Frank Leslie Mulholland,
Warren Mullett,
Elton Robert Nellis,
Gustave Nelson,
Walter Harper North, A.B.,
Hillsdale College,
Hartwell Nowell,
William Richard Oates,
William John O'Brien,
Frank Milon Orem,
John Wallace Paul,
James Shanks Perry,
Elmer Norman Peters;


Earl Francis Phelps,
Fred Edgar Phillipson,
John Paul Pierce,
William Edward Rafferty,
Henry Eber Randall,
Fred Morton Raymond,
Joseph Lilly Reed,
Morris ltoughton Reed, A.B.,
It'le,Unziversify,
John Wilkins Reynolds, A.M.,
Villa mletle Un ivei'sity,
Tlurner Samuel Rickart,
Harry Rickel,
Hiarry Warren Robinson,
Louis Leslie Robinson,
Robert Edward Robinson,
Charles Ernest Roblin,
George Henry Rosenthal,
Burton Edward Ross,
Herbert Walter Runnels,
George Frederick Ruppe,
Fred Russ,
Sigmond Sanger,
Eugene Saunders,
Andrew Jackson Sawyer, Jr.,
Iarry Garr Schock, A.B.,
Edward Schreiner,
Philip Walter Seipp,
Lisle Shanahan,
Chester Delbert Sharp,
Frank Gray Shaver,
Frank Wiley Shepherd,
Frederic Royal Sherman,
Earnest Augustus Skinner,
Harold Rainey Small,
Ernest Clarence Smith, A.B.,
Olivet College,
George Harris Smith,
IHervey Montgomery Smith, A.B.,
Robert Abram Smith,
Wallis Craig Smith,
Custer Snyder, A.B., Scio College,
Ellis Gary Soule,
Orson Pratt Soule,
J. Branch Stocking,
Morgan Strong, LL.B., Cozrnell
University,
Justin Lovell Sutherland,
IIenry Smith Tanner,




ANNUAL JUNE MEETING, 1899.


375


Joshua Charles Taylor,          LeRoy Allen Wilson, B.S., fMich.
Walter Dudley Tipton,               Agr. Coll.,
Frederic Lawrence Travers,      Mahlon Egbert Wilson,
Leo Clyde Tuck, B.S., Napa Coll., Carl Victor Wisner,
Abraham Joseph Ullman,          ierbert I)udley Witherell,
Robert R. Wade,                 Iucerne Austin \Vittenmyer,
Andrew Josiah Walrath,          \illiam Frederick Wolf,
Roy Milton Watkins,             Alphonso Calvin Wood, A.B.,
Charles Henry Watson,               TFi-StaZe ANoromal College,
Harold Butler Wetmore,          Isidor Ziegler,
Roland Dare Whitman, A.B.,       Forest Vishua Zimmer, B.S., CenGeorge Culver Wilson,              tOre College.             218
MIASTER OF LAWS.


Colin Percy Campbell, LL.B.,


George Kingsley, Jr., LL.B.  2-220


SCHOOL OF PHARMACY.
PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIIIST.


John Newton Adams,
Walter Stephen Brooks,
Lavern Otis Cushing,
Charles Anton Duerr,
Fred Rowland Dunning,
Oscar Henry Haarer,
Jessie Graham Hall,A.B., I 'ellesley
College,
Herbert D. Harrington,
Harry Cook Hewitt.
Clinton Whitney Hibbard,


Ralph Hicks,
Philip Kephart,
Charles Bert Pettibone,
Ernest Tracy Pettis,
Elmer Albert Phillips,
George Rogers,
James Clayton Rusterholtz,
Frank Philip Seabury,
Paul George Seibert,
Leonard Fred Steenman,
(scar Charles Wheeler.


21


HOMCEOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE.
DOCTOR OF MEI)ICINE.


Ida Catura Coler, M.D., Baltiomore
Wbfomazn's MJedical College,
Robert Lloyd Johnson,
Dean Wentworth Myers,
Harry Melvin Piper,


William Colfax Roberts, B.S.,
University of NTebraska,
Tisdale Sartoris Walker,
Floyd Edward Westfall,
Erle Brice Woodward.


8


COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY.
DOCTOR OF IIENTAL SURGERY.


Hilen Duane Aldrich,
William John Allan,
Arthur Albert Baker,
Victor Emmet Bedford,
Helmuth Philip Binzel.
Francis Laurance Busch,


Will Chauncey Butler,
Joseph McGugan Cartwright,
Frank Popham Cattermole,
Carroll Flood Chase,
Gilbert A. Cotton,
Loran Scott Fleming,



