
Proceedings of the Board of Regents
July 1987 - June 1988
The University of Michigan




JULY MEETING, 1987


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, July 18, 1987
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost Duderstadt, and
Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson were also present, as
were Chancellors Jenkins and Jones. Regent Varner was absent.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order and announced that the 1987-88
budget and University Health Service fee discussions would take place the following
day.
Minutes
The minutes of the May and June, 1987 meetings were approved.
Reports
Vice President Brinkerhoff presented the Summary of Monthly Investments,
Report on Investment Transactions, Plant Extension Report, Litigation Report, and
the Personnel/Labor Relations Report. The Regents also received the quarterly
Report on Noncompetitive Purchases over $2000 from Single Sources for the period of
April 1, 1987 through June 30, 1987. The Regents requested clarification of a
purchase order on this report to Clover Electronics in the amount of $72,552.02.
Vice President Wilson submitted Summaries of a Selection of Current Research
and the report of Awards Received: Research and Other Acadeamic Activities.
Gifts and Grants
The Regents received the Development and Communication Activity, Campaign
Progress, and Campaign Phase II Reports for June, 1987.
WUOM
Vice President Cosovich announced that WUOM would begin 24-hour broadcast
service starting Monday, July 20. In response to a question from Regent- Baker, he
stated that the cost for providing a WUOM outlet in northern Michigan would be
prohibitive.
Personnel Actions
The Regents granted President Shapiro and Provost Duderstadt interim authority
to approve appointments until the next Regents' meeting in September, 1987. They
also approved the following personnel actions:


-1 -



July Meeting, 1987


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND
FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
Kevork Bardakjian, Ph.D  Marie Manoogian Associate Professor of Armenian Language and Literature
Kenneth G. Binmore, Ph.D., Professor of Economics
Raymond Y. Fadous, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Computer Science
Amit K Ghosh, Ph.D. Professor of Materials Science and Engineering
Stephen C. Rand, Ph.., Associate Professor of Electrical Engieeing and Computer Science, with
tenure, and Associate Professor of Applied Physics, wthout tenure
David J. Srolovitz, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering
Clause Mason Steele Ph.D., Professor of Psychology
B. Joseph White, Ph.b., Professor of Business Admnistration and Associate Dean for a five-year term
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on dates indicated
Carol D. Surles Ph  Vice Chancellor for Administration, UM-Flint, October 1 1987
Donald M. Weiland, PI.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1981
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED
ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
Richard C. Adelman, Professor of Biological Chemistry, reappointed Director, Institute of Gerontology
for a five-year term
Heinz Beneking, reappointed Visiting Goebel Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science
Arthur W. Burks, Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, reappointed to
teach in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Orin G. Gelderloos, reappointed Interim Director of Division of Interdisciplinary Studies,
UM-Dearborn for a six-month term, July 1, 1987
Walter M. Hancock, Professor of Industrial Engineering, with tenure, also Professor of Health Services
Management and Policy, without tenure, reappointed Director of the Center for Research on
Integrated Manufacturing and Associate Dean of the College of Engineering, for a two-year term
William H. Murphy, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Microbiology and mmuno ogy, reappointed to teach in
the Department of Microbiology and Immunology
George Piranian, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, reappointed to teach in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts
Herbert Sloan, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, reappointed to teach in the Department of Surgery, July
1, 1987
G. Brymer Williams, Professor Emeritus of Chemical Engineering and Metallurgical Engineering
reappointed to develop and organize an alumni database and development program for the
Department of Chemical Engineering and Metallurgical Engineering
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR
FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
Elmer G. Gilbert, Professor of Aerospace Engineering and Computer, Information and Control
Engineering, with tenure, appointed Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
without tenure
Edie N. Goldenberg, Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, appointed Director of the Institute
of Public Policy Studies for a three-year term
John R. Griffith Andrew Pattullo Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, appointed
Interim Chair of the Department of Health Services Management and Policy August 1 1987
James S. Jackson, Professor of-Psychology, with tenure, Research Scientist Research Center for Group
Dynamics, appointed Associate Dean for Graduate Student Recruitment and Retention, Horace
H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Gail K. McCracken, Lecturer in Management, appointed Assistant Dean, School of Management,
UM-Dearborn, July 1 1987
Amjad Umar, Associate Professor of Business Administration, also appointed Associate Professor of
Computer and Information Science
Peter A. Ward, Chair of the Department of Pathology, appointed the Godfrey D. Stobbe Professor of
Pathology for a five-year term
Max D. Wicha, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Chief, Division of Hematology
and Oncology Director of the Simpson Memorial Research Institute, appointed Director of the
University oMichigan Cancer Center, July 20, 1987


-2 -



July Meeting, 1987


OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Bradford Perkins Professor of History, with tenure, appointed Richard Hudson Research Professor of
History, Winter term 1988
Hartmut Steinecke, Visiting Max Kade Distinguished Professor of German, Fall term, 1987
Franciscus Nicolaas Stokman, Visiting Netherlands Professor of Political Science, Academic Year,
1987-88
The following committee appointments were approved.
Divison of Phvsical Education Executive Committee
Christine M. Brooks, for a two-year term, July 1, 1987 through June 30, 1989, vice Stephen J. Galetti,
term expired
Victor L. Katch, for a two-year term, July 1, 1987 through June 30, 1989, vice John I. Todor, term
expired
Museum of Art Executive Committee
Alfred S. Sussman, to succeed himself, for a two-year term, ending June 30, 1989
Personnel Reports
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
H. Frank Adidersen M.D. Obstetrics and Gynecology, June 15, 1987
Julian J. Faraway, Ph.D., Statistics
Linda K. Gregerson Ph.D. English Language and Literature
Susan E. Heckler, Ph.D., Marketing
Daniel B. Hinshaw M.D. Surgery, June 1 1987
Paulette J. Hoyer, Ph.D., Nursing, September 1, 1987
Theodore S. Lawrence, M.D., Radiation Oncology
Jeffrey S. Lehman J.D. Law, June 1, 1987
Kent D. Syverud, J.D., Law
Youjae Yi, Ph.D., Marketing
Instructor
Jeffrey L. Barnett, M.D. Internal Medicine
Thomas J. Hegarty, M.D., Radiation Oncology
Clark E. Nugent, M.D  Obstetrics and Gynecology
Benjamin N. Shain, M.D  Ph.D  Psychiatry, July 5,1987
Mark A. Supiano, M.D., Internal Medicine
Lecturer
Nilo A. Avila, M.D., Radiology
Allan R. Britt M.D., Radiology
Francesco C. Doenz, M.D., Radiology
Nancy Genero Ph.D  Psychology, June 1, 1987
Hal N. Ginsberg M.D., Radiology
Malcolm K. Hatfield, M.D., Radiology
Vaseem Iqbal, M.D., Radiology
Howard L. Kahen, M.D. Radilogy
James J. Kochkodan, M.b. Radiology
Gail A. Luecke, M.D. Radiolog
Ellen M. O'Mara, D.. Radiology
Krista A. Richey, DD..S., Dentistry, June 15, 1987
James D. Spivey, D.D.S., Dentistry, June 1, 1987
Jeffrey S. Warren, M.D., Radiology
Andrew C. Wu, M.D., Radiology
Visitinf Professor
Chester Biscardi, D.MA., Center for West European Studies
Olin G. Wellborn, III, J.D., Law, July 21, 1987


-3 -



July Meeting, 1987


Adiunct Professor
Robert C. Jaklevic, Ph.D., Physics
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Robert L. Bangert-Drowns, B.S., Education
Adiunct Lecturer
Robert L. Curry, Ph.D. Biology
David B. Edwards, Ph.D., Antiropology
George T. Goffas, D.D.S., Dentistry, May 4, 1987
Jim Loudon, MA., Astronomy
Micahel F. McGowen, B.FA., Art, May 1, 1987
Mona A. Mort, Ph.D., Biology
Pamela J. Puntenney, Ph.D., Architecture and Urban Planning, May 1, 1987
Marianne M. Sach, M.FA., Art May 1, 1987
Mark D. Wiedelman, BA., Real Estate
Clinical Professor
Samuel J. Behrman, M.D., Ch.B., Obstetrics and Gynecology, February 2, 1987
Clinical Instructor
Susan F. Engert, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Sandra L. Fntz, M.D., Anesthesiology, July 20, 1987
Alan M. Gardner, M. D., Anesthesiology
J. Thomas Miller, M.D., Radiology
GregoryD. Krol M.D. Internal Medicine
Eileen M. Murphy M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology
Mark P. Lebeis,.D., Internal Medicine
Chin-Ti Lin, M.D., Surgery, June 1 1987
Michael B. Snyder M.D Internal Medicine
Nancy M. Speed, M.D., Psychiatry, June 1, 1987
Susan B. Steigerwalt M.D., Internal Medicine
Suzanne Swanson, M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology, August 1, 1987
Timothy Watkins, M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology
Sandra S. Wu, M.D., Anesthesiology
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
Daniel R. Denison, Adiunct Assistant Professor of Psychology, also Assistant Professor of
Organizational Behavior and Industrial Relations
Marie J. English, from Clinical Instructor to Lecturer of Dentistry, June 15, 1987
Charles S. Marn, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiology
Raymond A. Maturo, from Adjunct Lecturer to Adjunct Assistant Professor of Dentistry, May 1, 1987
John E. Niederhuber, from Professor to Adjunct Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with
tenure, also holds title Professor of Surgery, without tenure, January 1, 1987
Leslie E. Quint, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiology
Mary J. Young, from Clinical Instructor II to Clinical Instructor [of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1987
Sabbatical
Karl L. Hutterer, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Curator of Archaelogy, for a six-month
period
Jessica Schwartz, Assistant Professor of Physiology, for a six-month period
William C. Stebbins, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with
tenure, for a six-month period
L. George Upton, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure,
and Associate Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, for a six-month period
Retirement Furlough
Kamal Asgar, Pro essor of Dentistry, with tenure, for a one-year period
G. Robert Greenberg, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure for a one-year period
Franklin W. Smith, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, for a one-year period


-4 -



July Meeting, 1987


Leave without Salary
Patricia Y. Gurin Professor of Psychology, with tenure, for a two-month period
Martha L. Hyneck, Associate Professor of Pharmacy, with tenure, for a one-year period
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective May 31, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
Associate Vice-Chancellor
Susan M. Burt, Sponsored Research and Development, UM-Dearborn, June 8, 1987
Thomas J. Switzer, Education, also holds title Associate Dean, August 14, 1987
Margot C. Norris, English Language and Literature, May 31, 1987
Jerome A. Smith, Aerospace Engineering, June 30, 1987
Associate Professor
David M. Bloome, Education, June 30, 1987
Assistant Professor
Richard F. Diaz, Radiation Oncology, June 5, 1987
Patrick G. Gardner, Music, August31, 1987
Niraj K. Jha, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, May 31, 1987
Robert L. Powell Political Science May 31, 1987
Thomas Vahey, Radiology, June 16, 1987
Instructor
avid E. Baker, Radiology, Ma 31, 1987
Paulette Metoyer, Internal Medicine, June 18, 1987
Edward J. Woolsey, Radiology, June 30, 1987
Lecturer
Barbara A. Banwell, Physical Therapy, UM-Flint, June 30, 1987
Mark Burnstein, Radiology, June 3, 1987
Barry L. Fanders, Radiology, June 28, 1987
Delores K. Schriner Enghsh Language and Literature, August 31, 1987
Mutsuko E. Simon, Japanese, May 31,1987
Kayo Tomura, Asian Languages and Cultures, May 31, 1987
Clinical Assistant Professor
Mitsi H. Lizer, Pharmacy June 12, 1987
Joanne L. Wible-Kant, Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 31, 1987
Clinical Instructor
Kenneth D. Williams, Radiology, June 30, 1987
Delayn S. Haynes, Pharmacy, June 12 1987
Joan L. Klein, Pharmacy, June 12, 1987
Janice Nightingale, Pharmacy, June 2,1987
Gary L. Soner, Pharmacy, June 12, 1987


-5 -



July Meeting, 1987


Retirement Memoirs
Vice President Kennedy reported the retirements of six faculty members.
Ruth N. Harris, Professor of Kinesiology in the Division of Physical Education,
retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1987.
Professor Harris received her A.B. degree from Brown University in 1941, M.S.
degree from Wellesley College in 1943, and Ph.D. degree from New York University
in 1970. She joined the faculty of The University of Michigan as an assistant
supervisor of physical education in 1946, was promoted to associate supervisor in 1949,
and supervisor in 1960. She was named associate professor of physical education in
1969 and professor in 1972.
Over the years, Professor Harris has been a teacher or advisor to thousands of
students. Most recently, she served as coordinator of the graduate program in the
Divison of Physical Education and head of the Kinesiology-Biomechanics Program
and Laboratory. She has served on the governing boards of the American Alliance for
Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance and the National Association for
Physical Eucation of College Women, and was a charter member of the International
Society of Biomechanics.
Professor Harris has conducted workshops and produced instructional films in
the areas of physical education and lifesaving techniques for the handicapped. She
developed design a swim vest for physically handicapped and elderly people that is
now being marketed nationally. In 1977 she authored a textbook titled Kinesiology
Workbook and Laboratory Manual. More recently she collaborated in writing the
American Red Cross textbook for swimming instructors, Swimming and Aquatics
Safety.
From 1948-70, Professor Harris directed the Jackson Memorial Camp for
Children in Jackson County, Michigan, and has twice been awarded the Jackson
Kiwanis Club's Distinguished Service Award for her work with underprivileged
children. She has also been associated with the American Red Cross, both locally and
nationally, for over 45 years as an instructor trainer in CPR, first aid, water safety, and
adapted aquatics. In 1976-77 Professor Harris served as the first woman president of
the Washtenaw County American Red Cross Board of Directors. She was awarded
the American Red Cross National Service Medal, and was the first recipient of the
Washtenaw County Chapter's Safety Services Volunteer-of-the-Year Award in 1980.
She is a member of Pi Lambda Theta National Honorary Society and received New
York University's Founders Day Award for Academic Achievement in 1971.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physical educator for her 41 years of
service by naming Ruth W. Harris Professor Emeritus of Kinesiology.
William M. Murphy, Jr., Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, will retire
from active faculty staus as of August 31, 1987, after a productive career as a teacher
and scholar.
He received his B.S. degree in 1950 and his M.S. degree in 1951 from
Pennsylvania State University and received his Ph.D. degree from the University of
Minnesota in 1954. He served as instructor and assistant professor at the University of
Minnestoa before coming to The University of Michigan as assistant professor of
microbiology in 1958. He was promoted to associate professor in 1962 and professor
in 1966.
Since 1958, Professor Murphy has had the major responsiblity for teaching
medical students the principles of virology and how these principles apply to the
practice of medicine. Over the years, he has played an active role in improving the
quality of instruction through constant evaluation of course content and presentation,




July Meeting, 1987


and by skillful personal guidance to young faculty at the start of their teaching careers.
Many graduate students and postdoctoral scholars received training in Professor
Murphy's laboratory which allowed them to go on to the distinguished careers in
academia and in industry. He also made his laboratory readily available to medical
students and residents, providing a liberal sampling of a career in academic medicine.
Professor Murphy's early research included studies of the poliomyelitis virus, and
the genetics of mouse resistance to streptococci. His work then concentrated for many
years on mouse leukemia and the isolation of viruses and mycoplasma from the bone
marrow of children with leukemia. His most recent work has focussed on studies of
the viral etiology and pathogenesis of age-dependent neurologic diseases. Professor
Murphy has also done pioneering work on the development of computer models of
disease development and progression which may help reduce the need for aniaml
models in the future.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist for his dedicated service by
naming William H. Murphy, Jr. Professor Emeritus of Microbiology and Immunology.
Thomas M. Sawyer, Professor of Humanities in the College of Engineering, has
retired from active faculty status as of May 31, 1987, after 42 years of service.
Professor Sawyer's specialty is the communication of technical information to the
public, and his efforts have involved significant activities in teaching, research,
publication, service and consulting.
Professor Sawyer completed his A.B. degree in biology at Kenyon College in
1939 and then served as a teacher of English at Iolani School m Honolulu. During the
U.S. involvement in World War II, he served as a Red Cross first aid instructor and
medical aidman in Honolulu from 1941-42, as an American Field Service ambulance
driver with the British 14th Army in India and Burma, with the British 8th Army in
Italy, and with the British 21st Army group in Belgium and Holland. He returned to
Kenyon College as an instructor of speech in 1942.
After the war, Professor Sawyer came to The University of Michigan where he
earned an A.M. degree in 1947 and his Ph.D. degree in speech in 1953. From 1945
until 1987 he taught in the College of Engineering, first in its English Department and
later its Humanities Department and program in technical communications. Professor
Sawyer rose from the rank of teaching assistant to professor and served as chair of the
Humanities Department from 1966-71.
In addition to his teaching, publications and research, Professor Sawyer has
enriched his contributions to the University with many other activities related to his
specialty in technical communication. Among these are his service as associate editor
and research associate at the Willow Run Laboratories; as editor consultant with the
Office of Research Administration; as Fulbright lecturer in English at the West
Pakistan University of Engineering and Technology in Lahore and at the University of
Peshawar in West Pakistan; as visiting fellow at the University of Wales in Cardiff; as
investigator for the Sloan Foundation Program in Engineering Research and Teaching
for Minority Students and as chair and consultant in a series of technical writing
courses at the University and overseas.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by
naming Thomas M. Sawyer Professor Emeritus of Humanities.
Leonard Segel, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
retired from active faculty status as of May 31, 1987. He began his association with the
field of engineering as an engineering trainee with Wright Aeronautical Corporation
from 1941 to 1943. Professor Segel received his B.S. degree in aerospace engineering
from the University of Cincinnati in 1947 and his M.S. degree in mechanical
engineering from State University of New York at Buffalo in 1953. Professor Segel


-7 -



July Meeting, 1987


joined the Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory where he served the engineering
profession from 1947 to 1966 as a research engineer, assistant department head, and
staff scientist in the flight research, vehicle dynamics, and applied mechanics
departments. He was also an instructor at SUNY-Buffalo in 1962 and a lecturer for
the advanced vehicle dynamics institute at Wayne State University from 1964-65.
Professor Segel came to The University of Michigan in 1967 as a lecturer in the
Mechanical Engineering Department and as a research engineer with the Highway
Safety Research Institute. From 1967 until his retirement Professor Segel also served
as head of the engineering research division of the UM Transportation Research
Institute where he has guided the institute's research in vehicle mechanics and
dynamics. In 1969 he was appointed associate professor and was promoted to
professor in 1975.
Professor Segel's professional career centers on applied research concerning the
mechanics of vehicles and the interaction of vehicles with their environment and
human controllers. His work in the field of on-road vehicle stability and control, in
particular, has been widely recognized. Professor Segel's contributions to the field
have been saluted by the Institute of Mechanical Engineers, which awarded him with
the Crompton-Lanchester Medal and elected him to the grade of Fellow. He has also
been honored for his work with the Visiting Scientist Award from the Japan Society
for the Promotion of Science and by his appointment to the technical advisory
committee for tires by the National Bureau of Standards. Professor Segel is a member
of a number of professional societies and also shares his expertise with practicing
engineers by acting as Chairman for the Engineering Summer Conference on
Mechanics of Trucks and Truck Combinations.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by
naming Leonard Segel Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics.
Pauline M. Sherman, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, has retired from
active faculty status as of May 31, 1987, after a productive career as a teacher and
research worker.
Born and raised in New York, Professor Sherman received her B.S.E. degree in
engineering mechanics from The University of Michigan in 1952 and then carried out
research on aircraft icing on a project in the Department of Aerospace Engineering.
Subsequently, she earned an M.S.E. degree in mechanical engineering in 1953 at the
University of California at Berkeley, where she also worked as a research engineer.
Professor Sherman returned to The University of Michigan in 1956 as an associate
research engineer working on hypersonic flow and other research problems. She
joined the faculty of the Department of Aerospace Engineering as an assistant
professor in 1960, becoming the first woman appointed to the engineering faculty.
Professor Sherman was promoted to associate professor in 1963 and to professor in
1971.
Professor Sherman's teaching repertoire involved courses in gas dynamics,
including those in aerodynamics, propulsion, and laboratory experiments. Her
research work was done in jet noise, low-density flows, two-phase flow, formation of
particulates, condensation, and hypersonic flows. She was supervisor for the design
and construction of a hypersonic "hot-shot" wind tunnel; this involved a great deal of
responsibility because of the high energies involved and the resulting requirements for
special equipment and safety precautions. Professor Sherman lectured on hypersonic
facilities in Europe on a NATO-AGARD lecture tour. She consulted with the EPA
and Lawrence Berkley Livermore Laboratories.
Many years were spent by Professor Sherman on the advisory committee for
Women in Science programs. In addition, she was elected to the faculty senate


-8 -



July Meeting, 1987


assembly, the Rackham science board, and the faculty senate advisory review
committee.
The Regents now salute this distinguished engineering educator for her
dedicated service by naming Pauline M. Sherman Professor Emeritus of Aerospace
Engineering.
Herbert Sloan, M.D., Professor of Surgery and Chief of Clinical Affairs at
University of Michigan Hospitals, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1987,
following a remarkable career as a renowned thoracic surgeon, teacher, researcher,
and dedicated advocate of The University of Michigan.
A native of West Virginia, Dr. Sloan received his A.B. degree in 1936 from
Washington and Lee University and his M.D. degree in 1940 from Johns Hopkins
University. Following his internship and residency at Johns Hospkins Hospital, he
served a tour of duty as a first lieutenant-major in the medical corps in Okinawa and
Korea during World War II. He completed his residency in thoracic surgery at
University of Michigan Hospitals from 1947-49, and joined the faculty as an instructor
in thoracic surgery. In 1950 he was named assistant professor of surgery in the Section
of Thoracic Surgery. He was promoted to associate professor in 1953 and to professor
in 1962. He was named head of the Section of Thoracic Surgery in 1970, a position he
retained until his retirement.
Dr. Sloan has maintained the tradition of excellence in thoracic surgery at The
University of Michigan which began here in 1928 when this field first became a
surgical specialty. During his 15-year tenure as head of the Section of Thoracic
Surgery, he has trained 49 resident physicians, and has made substantial contributions
to the thoracic surgical literature. He has held the highest office in the two major
national thoracic surgery societies, having been president of the Society of Thoracic
Surgeons from 1974-75 and president of the American Association of Thoracic
Surgery in 1979-80. He was a member of the American Board of Thoracic Surgery for
20 years, and editor of the Annals of Thoracic Surgery for 15 years. More than 30 years
ago, Dr. Sloan performed the first open-heart surgery in the state of Michigan, and
shortly after that, was one of the first surgeons to perform open-heart surgery in
infants. He is regarded as a true pioneer in this technically demanding field.
In addition to his professional achievements as a thoracic surgeon, Dr. Sloan has
expended extraordinary effort on behalf of The University of Michigan as chairman of
the highly successful Replacement Hospital Campaign. He has served the medical
center in an unprecedented three-year term as Chief of Clinical Affairs, and his efforts
during the past year as medical director of the operating rooms have resulted in an
important and much-needed reorganization in this area.
The Regents now honor Herbert Sloan, M.D., for his outstanding contributions
to health education by naming him Professor Emeritus of Surgery.
Memorials
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Regents approved the
following amendments to the degree lists:


-9 -



July Meeting, 1987


School of Business Administration
Bachelor of Business Administration, May 1987
add:        Daniel James Deradoorian
Edward Joel Solomon
correct to show:   Stephen Scott LaPlante, with high distinction
Master of Business Administration, May 1987
add:       Wendy Ann MarxA.B. Brandeis University Karl
Anthony Vick, B.S.E.E., University of Illinois
Dental School
Doctor of Dental Surgery, August 22,1986
delete:     Barbara nn Elisabeth Tysell
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
College of Literature Science and the Arts
Master of Arts, Romance Languages and Literatures, French, May 1987
add:        Stacey Lynne Katz, A.B., Tufts University
School of Education
Master of Science, Physical Education: Kinesiology, May 1987
add:        Gilbert Gerard Zimmermann, B.S.,
School of Nursing
Master of cience, Mental Health Nursing May 1987
add:        Carol Leigh Rembor, B.S., Nurs., Oakland University
School of Information and Library Studies
Master of Information and Library Studies May 1987
add:        Carolyn Verniece Burgess-McCormick, BA., Wayne State University
Rackham
Master of Science, May 1987, Toxicology
delete:     Catherine Mary Nuemann B.S., the Pennsylvania State University
Master of Public Policy, December 1985
add:       Judith HIelen Callens, B.G.S.
School of Public Health
Master of Science, Population Planning, May 1987
delete:     Nurmaulina Bachtiar Suprijanto, Sarjana Ekomoni, University of Indonesia
School of Information and Library Science
Master of Information and Library Studies, May 1987
delete:     Susan Emily Flick, A.B., Jacksonville State University
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Master of Arts, Communication Studies, December 1986
add:       Jill Beth Blackstone, A.B., Clark University
College of Literature Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, May, 1987
add:       Ann Marie Biscup
Eusebia Calvillo
Patricia Ann Fredal with High Distinction
Michael Edward Hall
Dennis Vincent Horton, Jr.
Paul Pinni Josephson
Lisa Rachel Kaufman
Steven Gilbert Meyer with High Distinction
Suzanne Marie Midcalf
Andrew Charles Miller
Anna Pille Moreno with Distinction
Frederick Douglas Pitts, Jr.
Ruth Susan Riegelhaupt
Andrew Harris Rosen
Barbara Kaye Roucher
Jean-Paul Henry Rudell
Dawn Marie Sampson
James E. Schmitt with High Distinction
Gretchen Trees
Lisa Dawn Webb
delete:    Julie Lynn Quigley
correct to show:   Mazyar Malek Hedayat
Sandra K. Macauley with High Distinction
Christine Elaine Riedel


-10 -



July Meeting, 1987


Bachelor of Science, May 1987
add:        Mary Celeste McGuire with High Honors in Cellular &
Molecular Biology; with High Distinction
Alison Laurie Zumga with Distinction
correct to show:   Theodore Simon Dibble with Highest Distinction
David Eugene McCauley, III, with Honors in Computer Science and High
Distinction
Daniel James Vargo with Distinction
Bachelor in General Studies May 1987
add:       Wendy Jane Bowers
Emily Maude Van Winkle with Distinction
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry, May 1987
delete:     Mary Celesfe McGuire with High Distinction
add:       Jeffrey Alan Holmstrand
Bachelor of Arts, August 22, 1986
add:        Douglas M. Jacobs
Bachelor of Science, August 22, 1986
add:        Katlryn Mary Kedzior
Bachelor of Science, December 19, 1986
add:        Lon Brian Eskind
School of Music
Bachelor of Music, May 1987
correct to show:   Frank Joseph DeMaglio, Piano
School of Natural Resources
Bachelor of Science, May 1987
delete:     Aina Brigitte Bernier
Residential College
achelor of Arts, May 1987
correct to show:   Christopher Miles Krafft, Honors in International Studies
delete:     Robert MichaelSmith Matson
University of Michigan-Dearbom
College of Arts. Sciences and Letters
Bachelor of Arts, April 1987
delete:     Monika Mariea Augsten
Division of Interdisciplinary Studies
Bachelor of Science, April -1987
delete:     Monika Mariea Augsten
College of Arts. Sciences and Letters
Bachelor of Science, April 1987
correct to show:   Stephen Michael Ford, with Distinction


-11 -



July Meeting, 1987


The Regents approved the tentative degree list for the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies for August, 1987.
Business School Growth Fund
Vice President Brinkerhoff asked the Regents to delay action on this request
until the September, 1987 meeting, and to consider it only for discussion and
information purposes at this time. While he is not opposed to the concept, Regent
Roach expressed reservations about how establishment of a separate fund, as outlined
in this proposal, would affect the coordination and integration of the rest of the
University's development efforts. Would this set a precedent for other schools and
colleges' establishing their own separate investment funds? President Shapiro
responded that these concerns will be addressed.
Regent Smith remarked that this is an exciting concept, and represents an
opportunity to compare this fund with others this at are run by our investment managers.
She feels that it would be educational and totally appropriate, and that it doesn't
necessarily follow that it would set a precedent for other schools and colleges'
establishing similar programs.
While acknowledging Regent Roach's concerns, Regent Nielsen agreed with
Regent Smith in favoring e the concept. He suggested that it be tried for a five year trial
period with the understanding that permission for such a program be granted only to
the School of Business Administration for that time period.
Regent Power wondered about the liability and appropriateness of alumni's
making investment decisions on behalf of the University.
President Shapiro stated that in his opinion, the prospect coordination issue
raised by Regent Roach would not be a barrier. His major concern is the spending
policy that would come out of this. The spending polic s currently described is
undefined; the investment managers would have free reign in spending the money.
This is the main issue that he himself will have to think through more carefully.
Central Campus Plan
Vice President Brinkerhoff described the work of the University of Michigan
Central Campus Planning Committee, which had been active this past year in updating
the original 1963 Central Campus Plan, under the direction of Dean Warner of the
School of Information and Library Studies. University Planner Fred Mayer and Carl
Johnson, of Johnson, Johnson, and Roy, provided professional support for the
committee's deliberations.
To accompany the Central Campus Planning Study 1987 Update that the
Committee had prepared for the Regents' review, Carl Johnson gave a slide
presentation detailing various aspects of the plan. He described the system of internal
courtyards (such as in the School of Business Administration, Regents' Plaza, and
Ingalls Mall) and open spaces on the campus that are now nearly complete. He also
pointed out the sensitivity of the design of some of the newer buildings and building
additions to the original architecture of their surroundings, citing the Tappan Hall
addition and the Alumni Center building as examples. The committee concluded that
there remains a 1,500,000 square foot option for growth on The University of
Michigan central campus.


-12 -



July Meeting, 1987


Vice President Brinkerhoff remarked that the 1963 plan has proven to be a very
successful undertaking, and that we have been able to successfully achieve its goals.
The thrust of the current update is to continue the careful monitoring of and planning
for future growth that has been the thrust of the original plan, and to continue
providing the continuity that has been achieved over the past 25 years as the campus
has evolved.
Regent Roach expressed concern about the open space on the north side of
Angell Hall, whose use as a gathering place has created problems for the University
and the community. He is not persuaded that it should remain an open transition
space between the two sectors in light of these problems. Regent Power remarked
that in his view, the Central Campus Plan has been one of the singular achievements
of the University, and that he hopes this and future boards continue the rigor and
discipline with which it has been followed. Regent Roach stated that although he was
in favor of the overall plan, he does not consider it to be a binding action on the part
of the board if the Umversity later decides to build on the northwest corner of the
campus.
Regent Baker stated that his view was diametrically opposed to Regent Roach's
view in this matter. The Central Campus Plan reflects the importance of maintaining
that site as open space, and that open area adds greatly to the beauty of the campus.
The University Planner had also noted the importance of keeping the area open. The
problems of loitering to which Regent Roach alluded would just be transferred to
another place on campus if that site were built upon. Regent Baker reiterated the
importance of keeping the area as park-like land.
Following the presentation and discussion, the Regents voted to approve the
1987 Central Campus Planning Study.
Medical Center Parking Structure
The Regents approved a budget of $10,000,000 for construction of an addition to
the Medical Center Visitor Parking Structure, and authorized award of the
construction contract to Rudolph/Libbe, Inc.
Medical Science II Air Conditioning Equipment Replacement
The Regents approved a budget of $3,100,000 and appointment of Goyette
Mechanical Contractor for completion of this project.
University of Michigan Hospitals Former Outpatient Building Project
This item was necessitated by the shift of clinical operations into space in this
facility that had originally been intended for office use, and to an increase in the
original estimate for cost of telephone installation. The Regents approved an addition
to the Former Outpatient Building Project of $269,000, raising the project's total
budget to $8,569,000.
University of Michigan Hospitals Incinerator Project
The Regents approved an increase of $500,000 to the original budget authorized
for this project, raising the total to $3,067,000. The increase is due to emission
controls and other requirements that have been required by the Department of


-13 -



July Meeting, 1987


Natural Resources since the project was originally undertaken in 1986.
G.G. Brown Building Chiller Replacement and Cooling Tower Addition; Computing
Center/IST Building Chilled Water Loop; Medical Science II HVAC Retrofit; North
University Building and Art & Architecture Building Microcomputer Workstations
The Regents approved the above projects.
Proposed Licensing Agreement Between The University of Michigan and a Start-Up
Small Business Incorporated and Owned by a University Employee (TSRL)
Regent Smith moved that the Regents enter into a licensing agreement with
TSRL, Inc. The research will involve an in vivo evaluation in beagle dogs of
technology to be patented by The University of Michigan, and it will be performed
under terms of the license agreement. The motion carried, with Regents Baker,
Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, and Waters voting affirmatively. The following
information is provided in compliance with the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute:
(i)   Parties to the contract will be The University of Michigan and TSRL,
a corporation wholly owned by Professor Gordon L. Amidon.
(ii)  Terms of the contract include: limited use of Room 2027 in the
College of Pharmacy; an allocation of $468.00 in salaries and wages
for the University's Dr. Chung Y. Lui, a Research Fellow in the
College of Pharmacy; a duration of four weeks, beginning July 20,
1987; a total payment of $2,000 in direct costs; the Umversity's normal
SBIR Phase I waiver of indirect costs on subcontracts to the
University; other terms and conditions of the Standard University,
contract form N-2B; and appropriate pass-through clauses as required
by the prime contract between NIH and TSRL.
(iii)  TSRL, Inc. will receive $47,000 from NIH for direct costs and no
overhead costs over the six month duration of its NIH contract,
exclusive of the subcontract costs.
Brighton Health Center
Because additional information was requested by Regent Smith regarding the
proposed subleasing arrangements planned for this project, the item was tabled until
the following day.
Policy on Intellectual Properties
The Regents next approved a revision to the Policy on Intellectual Properties.
Vice President Wilson explained that the rationale behind updating the current policy,
which was last revised in 1983, is to bring it up to contemporary status and make it
comparable to those in effect at peer institutions. The new policy aims to attract and
maintain a high quality, vigorous faculty and to encourage innovation and research
commitment. In balancing the interests of investigators and the University, the new
policy makes explicit the responsibility of faculty and staff to disclose the development
of intellectual property, and the responsibility of the administration to respond to
these disclosures. The new policy expands the options available to inventors, and also
contains an adjustment of the formula for royalty distribution in an attempt to increase


-14 -



July Meeting, 1987


the attraction of remaining at the University as opposed to entering the private sector.
Regent Roach noted that this document speaks affirmatively to the role of
intellectual property policy as a service to the faculty. It is also important to bear in
mind the opportunities for economic benefit represented by this policy on the part of
both the Umversity and the faculty. Regent Power commented on the impression
created by the term "intellectual properties", stating that he hoped a more suitable
term might arise.
Policy on Intellectual Properties: Including
Their Disclosure, Commercialization, and Distribution of
Revenues From Royalties and Sale of Equity Interests
Reference: Regents'Bylaw 3.10
The objectives of the University's technology transfer/intellectual property
development activities are first, and primary, to provide services to University faculty
and staff to facilitate their efforts to carry out the University's mission. Other
important objectives are to facilitate the efficient transfer of knowledge and
technology from the campus to the private sector in service of the public interest; and
to attract resources for the support of University programs.
(1) Disclosure
University employees have an obligation to disclose promptly and completely to
the Intellectual Properties Office any intellectual property developed or discovered as
described in Regents' Bylaw 3.10.
The Intellectual Properties Office will provide prompt assistance to University
employees including review of requirements of sponsorship if any, a preliminary
market and proprietary status analysis, and explanation of options for
commercialization.
(2) Options for Commercialization
Prior to expenditure of substantial University resources for protecting and
marketing intellectual properties, inventor(s)** will be asked to elect one of the
following options for commercialization.
(a) Licensing Third Parties
The University may license University-generated intellectual properties to
external entities for further development and commercialization in exchange for
a return on resulting revenues. The University will bear the costs of licensing the
intellectual property.
If the University decides not to protect or license the intellectual property, it
may be reassigned to the inventor(s) upon request, in accordance with option (c)
below.
(b) Licensing Employee-Inventor Owned Companies
The University may enter into license agreements with employee-inventor


-15 -



July Meeting, 1987


owned companies. Such licenses will be comparable to those negotiated with
unrelated third party licensees. The terms may include royalty payment, equity
interest, or a combination thereof, as consideration to the University for the
license. The emphasis in structuring license agreements with start-up companies
will be on helping the company become viable. Where the inventor-employee
chooses to accept the expense and risk of protecting and marketing the
technology in lieu of using the University's resources and services to do so, terms
which reflect the inventor's increased acceptance of responsibility can be
accepted by the University.
(c) Reassignment of Ownership to Inventors
Subject to the provisions described in Section 3 below, the University may
reassign its ownership of an intellectual property to inventor(s) if the inventor(s)
elect to market, protect and license it on their own with minimal University
involvement or if the University decides not to protect or license it. Normally,
where the inventor desires to commercialize via a business in which the inventor
holds a financial or management interest, the option described in (b) above
would be used.
The return to the University for reassignment of ownership will consist of
recovery of any University patent and licensing expenses plus 15% of royalties,
equity or other value received by the inventor(s) through subsequent licensing or
reassignment.
In exceptional cases, in order to benefit the University, the Vice President
for Research may make modifications in this rate of return for reassignment of
ownership.
NOTE: After reassignment in accordance with the above, any costs associated
with protection, marketing, or licensing of the intellectual property will not
normally be borne by the University.
(3) Provisions in Assignment and License Agreements
Assignment and license agreements entered into by the University will include
provisions, as appropriate, regarding due diligence in patent or copyright protection
and commercialization of the technology, reports on efforts and success in
commercialization, access to records to assure compliance with the terms of the
agreement, retention of University rights to practice the technology and extent of
authority for subsequent licensing or reassignment. The University's license and
assignment agreements must permit compliance with applicable laws, regulations,
University policies, and the terms of agreements with sponsors.
Assignment and license agreements with University employee-inventor(s) will
normally include a provision that continuing development of the intellectual property
would take place without the use of University funds, facilities, or funds administered
by the University.
License and assignment agreements between the University and employee(s) or
between the University and a company in which University employee(s) hold a
financial interest fall under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. This
Statute permits such agreements if certain disclosure, approval, and reporting


-16 -



July Meeting, 1987


requirements are met.
(4) Distribution of Revenue from Royalties or Sale of Equity Interest
(a) Applicability
The revised revenue distribution plan described below will apply only to
licenses and assignments that are granted after the plan is approved by the
Regents. Inventors and authors of intellectual properties resulting from
specifically assigned tasks will normally not participate in the royalty/equity
revenue distribution plan described herein.
(b) Revenue Distribution Plan
After recovery of University expenses, including but not limited to those for
patent protection, marketing, and licensing, aggregate revenues resulting from
royalties and sale of equity interests will be shared as follows:
The first $100,000           50% to the inventor(s)
25% to the originating unit(s)***
25% to the central administration
The second $100,000          40% to the inventor(s)
30% to the originating unit(s)* * *
30% to the central administration
Over $200,000                33 1/3% to the inventor(s)
33 1/3% to the originating unit(s)***
33 1/3% to the central administration
The Vice President for Research will continue to encourage the originating
unit to consider using some or all of its share of such revenue, especially at the
lower dollar levels, to support the inventor(s)' research.
NOTE that in cases of licensing to University employee-owned businesses or
reassignment to University employees, the resulting revenues to the University
will be distributed only to the originating unit(s) and the central administration
and will normally be split evenly between them. The inventor's potential for
revenue under the University's standard distribution plan outlined above is
exchanged for the potential rewards from the license or assignment.
(c) In exceptional cases, in order to benefit the University, the Vice President for
Research may make modifications in this distribution plan.
*       The University will continue the tradition of not claiming ownership or a
share of the proceeds from scholarly works and textbooks. Software and
works expressly commissioned by the University will continue to come
within the purview of the policy.
** *    In this policy the term inventor shall mean inventor or author.
***     The originating unit is usually a department, institute, or center, but it may
be a subunit of any one of these.


-17 -



July Meeting, 1987


Reassignment of University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual Property
Next, the Regents approved a change in the method by which the University
responds to the Conflict of Interest Statute in individual intellectual property matters.
This will expedite the process, while still keeping the Regents and the state
well-informed of the interactions between the University administration and
developers of intellectual property.
The Michigan Sea Grant College Program
This interdisciplinary program, for which the University shares federal funding
with Michigan State University, involves education, outreach, training, advisory
service, and research regarding the nation's coasts and oceans, including the Great
Lakes. The Regents were informed of the transfer of the administration of this
program from the Institute of Science of Technology to the College of Engineering.
The unit will continue to report to the Vice President for Research and be under her
general oversight.
Center for Performing Arts and Technology
Vice President Duderstadt informed the Regents about the establishment of the
Center for Performing Arts and Technology within the School of Music. The Center is
being supported for the next five years with funds from the Arthur Thurnau Charitable
Trust; beyond that, funding will be the responsibility of the School of Music.
Considered one of the most significant events in the history of the School of Music, the
Center will support creative, educational, and research endeavors using computers,
video, sound synthesizing equipment, and computer graphics for music, dance, and
theater. Incorporated into the Center are a sound video synthesis laboratory, a
micro-computer classroom, a computer dance lab, an electronic music studio, and a
computer design laboratory in the Theatre Department.
Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
The Regents unanimously approved a number of new appointments to
membership on the medical staff of University of Michigan Hospitals.
Resolution in Honor of Gordon B. Fleming
The following resolution, recognizing the service of Gordon B. Fleming on the
UM-Flint Citizens Advisory Committee, was approved by the Regents:
In 1987, Gordon B. Fleming completed eight years as a member of The
University of Michigan-Flint Citizens Advisory Committee. These have been
years of intimate and continuing concern for the Flint campus and the
University if truly grateful
His service on the Citizens Advisory Committee has paralleled deep and
lasting positive changes in the physical and academic profile of UM-Flint.
The encouraging forward movement of this institution is in many ways related
to the energy and guidance he so generously provided.
As Mr. Fleming's term on the Committee comes to an end, the Regents of
The University of Michigan express their gratitude and appreciation in the


-18 -



July Meeting, 1987


form of this resolution.
Radio Contract for Broadcast of UM Football and Basketball Games
President Shapiro next introduced UM Athletic Director Don Canham, who had
been invited to appear before the board to respond to concerns that had been raised
by both the Regents and the public about the sale of broadcast rights for athletic
events to WJR radio. After giving a brief history of athletic broadcasts at The
University of Michigan, Mr. Canham explained that the exclusive broadcast contract
that has been signedwith WJR, the state's most powerful radio signal, means that the
rights have been granted to one network, not one station. The University received
$87,000 from radio rights last year; for the first year of the three-year WJR contract,
the University will receive approximately $700,000. The WJR contract will expand the
signal even more than is currently available. Because WUOM's educational license is
based on a premise of alternative, noncompetitive broadcasting, the WUOM network
cannot be included in the agreement with WJR. WWJ and the UM student station,
WCBN, have been grandfathered into the contract; because WUOM would have to
have been included without their network, they did not choose to be grandfathered.
The University's contract with the WJR network is more favorable than those of
most of the University's peers. Our real obligation, he continued, is to relay the
broadcast to our alumni throughout the United States, as opposed to retaining
particular broadcast personalities. WJR has stated that it may be able to carry
Michigan broadcasts nationally in the near future.
Regent Brown expressed his desire that the broadcasts extend into northern
Michigan, and asked whether the contract requires that particular radio stations be
allowed into the network to assure that the state is adequately covered. Mr. Canham
responded that not only does the University define the 35 markets that WJR must go
into, it is to the station's advantage to obtain statewide coverage to maximize its
advertising revenues. He went on to say that he can guarantee coverage in the area of
concern to Regent Brown.
Following further discussion, the Regents voted to ratify the University's contract
with WJR. Regent Roach did not take part in the discussion or vote, due to a
possibile conflict of interest arising from his role as local counsel for Capital
Cities/ABC, Inc.
Criteria for Access to Student Billing Services for Special Fee Collections
In light of the current situation at the University with regard to collecting of fees
for use by student groups, Regent Baker reintroduced a motion that had been tabled
from the June meeting to rescind the "Criteria for Use in Considering Requests from
Student Organizations for Access to the University's Student Billing Services for
Special Fee Collections" that had been adopted at the March, 1972 Regents' Meeting.
The motion carried, with Regents Baker, Brown, Power, Roach, Smith, and Waters
voting yes and Regent Nielsen opposed.
Motion to Meet in Executive Session
Regent Roach then made the following motion:


-19 -



July Meeting, 1987


Pursuant to Sections 8(h) and 8(f) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act,
as amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in
closed session on July 16, 1987 immediately following the Public Comments
session in the Regents' Room, Fleming Administration Building, for the
purpose of considering material exempt from discussion or disclosure by the
Michigan Freedom of Information Act. Such exempt material consists of a
written opinion from the Board's legal counsel [section 8(g)] and the review
of the contents of applications for employment, where confidentiality has
been requested by the candidates [section 8(f)].
The motion carried unanimously.
Public Comments
The Regents heard a statement from Lawrence Norris, Student, regarding equity
and its relationship to the various administrative openings at the University.
In accordance with the previously approved motion, the meeting was then
recessed and the Regents met in closed session.
Friday, July 17, 1987
The Regents met at 9:00 AM.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy and Vice Presidents
Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, Duderstadt, Johnson, and Wilson were also present, as were
Chancellors Jenkins and Jones. Regent Varner was absent.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order, and stated that as the first order of
business, Vice President Duderstadt would present the 1987-88 General Fund Budget.
1987-88 General Fund Budget
Vice President Duderstadt explained that the General Fund revenue of the
University is comprised of four components: state appropriation, student tuition and
fees, indirect cost recovery from sponsored research grants and contracts, and
investment income from General Fund working capital. The 1987-88 state
appropriation will amount to an increase of only $12.2 million, (5.5%) which is less
than what had initially been expected. This, combined with the total revenue increase
available from indirect cost recovery ($4.2 million) and interest income ($1.2 million),
amounts to an increase over the 1986-87 revenue of only $17.6 million, or $27.4
million short of the original request of a $45 million increase. Thus, he explained, the
University has been left with no choice but to recommend an increase in student
tuition and fee levels for 1987-88 to at least partially make up the difference. These
increased fees will be offset by a total increase of $6.9 million (20%) in General Fund
support of student financial aid. The University will therefore be able to ensure that
all Michigan students admitted will be provided with sufficient financial assistance to
allow them to attend.


-20 -



July Meeting, 1987


1987-88 Student Fee Rates, Ann Arbor Campus
Upon the conclusion of Vice President Duderstadt's presentation odescribing the
rationale behind and the components of the 1987-88 General Fund Budget, Regent
Nielsen suggested that the nonresident undergraduate tuition increase could be raised
by 10%, rather than 9.7%, to generate additional revenue. Regent Roach described
the erosion in state support from a high of 73% of the general fund budget in 1960 to
about 48% during the 1980-82 recession to about 52% last year. The drop in state
support to the current 49.5% on the Ann Arbor campus fails to give financial
recognition to the uniqurole o  of the University in developing the resources of the
state. The programs that the legislature encourages the University to provide have not
been supported with adequate financial allocations.
Expanding on this theme, Regent Power stated that the University has been
responsive in the most concrete and realistic way to recent criticisms from state
legislators. In the areas of minority enrollment and racial attitudes, the University will
spend an additional $1.9 milion to implement new initiatives. In response to charges
of elitism, the University is increasing its $24 million student financial aid expenditure
by an additional $2 million in the new budget. The difference in the rates for instate
and outstate tuition address legislative concerns about the instate/outstate enrollment
ratios.
Regent Roach moved approval of the recommended 1987-88 Student Fee Rates,
which contain an increase of approximately 8% over the 1986-87 rates for instate
students and 9.7% for out-of-state students, with slightly higher rates for certain
programs. This was supported by Regent Waters. Regent Nielsen moved to amend
this motion to increase the rate for out-of-state students to 10%, stating that this slight
increase won't affect the marketplace for out-of-state students and will provide
increased revenue to help families of instate students. Regent Brown seconded the
motion, noting that the costs for out of state students to attend The University of
Michigan are below those of its peer private institutions.
Regent Baker remarked that he feels that tuition is too high and that he is
concerned about other aspects of the general fund budget. The tuition- setting process
has been used for the past three years by the Governor for his purposes, and now the
legislature is using tuition-setting for its purposes. Further, tuition revenue is the only
source of revenue which the Regents control, and it should be used carefully. He
reiterated his opinion that tuition is too high.
Because nonresidents already pay 3.3 times more than residents for
undergraduate tuition, Regent Roach was not willing to further increase the burden
for out-of-state students. He pointed out that Michigan students have the additional
benefit of the financial aid programs that are not available to nonresident students.
Further increases in tuition for nonresidents adversely impact children of nonresident
alumni. Making the University available only to high-income nonresident students
defeats the goal of maintaining a diverse, multi-cultural campus. Regent Power
pointed out that the.3% additional revenue generated by Regent Nielsen's proposal
would amount to only a symbolic gesture, and that the University's proposal is
comparable with rates that have been approved by peer institutions. Regent Nielsen
responded that he disagreed.
President Shapiro called for the vote on Regent Nielsen's amendment. It failed,
with Regents Nielsen and Brown voting yes and Regents Baker, Power, Roach, Smith,


-21 -



July Meeting, 1987


and Waters voting no. The vote was then called on the original tuition proposal, which
called for an increase in student tuition of approximately 8% for most resident
undergraduate and graduate students, and 9.5% for nonresident undergraduate
students. Increases for the Schools of Engineering, Medicine, Law, and Business
Administration will be slightly above these percentages to meet the special costs of
their instructional programs. This motion carried, with Regents Baker and Nielsen
opposed, and Regents Brown, Power, Roach, Smith and Waters in support.
1987-88 General Fund Budget and Student Fee Rates, UM-Dearborn
Chancellor Jenkins explained that UM-Dearborn's most critical need,
improvement in its faculty salary program, has been inadequately addressed by the
state appropriation increase of 5.7%, which, given that the state appropriation
comprises only 57% of the annual budget, translates into an increase of only 3.4% of
the total budget. Consequently, even with its substantially increased enrollments and
the proposed increase in student fees, UM-Dearborn faculty salaries will continue to
be below the average for small colleges and universities in their category.
Regent Roach pointed out the importance of higher faculty salaries in
maintaining the quality of the campus's professional programs, and that some
resolution must be found to this problem. The Regents voted to approve an increase
of 8% for student fees on the UM-Dearborn campus, with Regent Baker dissenting.
1987-88 General Fund Budget and Student Fee Rates, UM-Flint
Chancellor Jones remarked that the 1987-88 increase in state appropriation for
the Flint Campus yields an increase in the general fund budget of 10.5%. This will
allow the campus to address only a few of the many economic and programmatic
needs that accumulated during the early 1980's. He explained that Flint's general fund
budget is based on a revenue ratio of 60% from state appropriations and 40% from
tuition and fees. The 1987-88 budget includes a faculty and staff salary program of
5%, along with a major initiative, budgeted at $200,000, for the purpose of
encouraging diversity in the institution.
The Regents approved a 6% increase increase in student fees and a 3% increase
in the parking deck fee for the University of Michigan-Flint, with Regent Baker voting
no.
1987-88 Revenue Budgets, All Three Campuses
The Regents approved the following revenue budgets, effective July 1, 1987, for
the period of July 1, 1987 through June 30, 1988 (in thousands):
Ann Arbor Campus:       $1,280,047
Dearborn Campus:           30,439
Flint Campus:              26,102
TOTAL                   $1,336,588
1987-88 University Health Service Fee
The Regents next considered a proposal to increase the University Health
Service Fee by $3.75 (5.9%) per student, which would raise the total fee to $67.00 per
student per term.


-22 -



July Meeting, 1987


In response to a question from Regent Nielsen about how to limit the costs of
this service, Vice President Johnson explained that as an auxiliary enterprise, the state
legislature requires that University Health Service be self-supporting. Vice President
Brinkerhoff explained that its costs are largely driven by salaries; reducing the staff
size would negatively impact the ability of the Health Service to provide quality care
and meet the students' needs. He went on to say that the University of Michigan
Health Service is one of the most efficiently-managed operations of its type in the Big
10 and elsewhere.
In response to questions from Regent Smith regarding the compulsory nature of
the fee and from Regent Nielsen regarding the necessity or the hiring of two health
educators, President Shapiro explained that compulsory fees were introduced some
years ago because they produced enormous administrative efficiencies and allowed the
unit to deliver much higher quality service. The currently proposed increase is
primarily for two purposes: to hire board-certified physicians to increase the quality of
service, and to improve health education efforts, which are critically necessary and
irresponsible not to provide. In his opinion, the modest increases in fees given the rate
of ilation in recent years is an extraordinary accomplishment.
Safer Sex Awareness Day
Regent Baker asked Health Service Director Dr. Caesar Briefer what the cost
will be for the condoms that are to be distributed as part of "Safer Sex Awareness
Day", scheduled for the fall term. He stated that in his opinion, giving away condoms
at this event would make a carnival of it. While acknowledging the public health
threat to some groups in the population from AIDS and that the disease was indeed
tragic in its consequences, he objected to news accounts that described the apparent
thrust of the program as teaching students that the only alternatives to intercourse are
masterbation and oral sex, using such devices as rubber dams and condoms. He
suggested that University Health Service educational programs should give equal
weight and emphasis to the alternative of abstinence, and that they should emphasize
morality, traditional values, marriage, and monogamy. Regent Baker stated his view
that the University must do more than emphasize the use of condoms and rubber
dams and teaching the mechanics of sex. Such limited educational programs that
dehumanize and mechanize the sexual act may do more damage to society overall
than the AIDS virus itself.
President Shapiro responded that contrary to the impression that may have been
created by media reports, the Health Service program is very serious, thoughtful, and
balanced, and that it is quite inappropriate to characterize it in exaggerated tones.
This program is entirely responsible and meets in a balanced way the needs of the
varied population at the University.
Regent Power said that this type of issue is often misrepresented by the media.
He also pointed out that in light of the 17% average rate of increase in health care
costs over the last four years in his own company, an increase of under 5% on a
weighted average basis is remarkable. Regent Roach remarked that although he had
initially been opposed to the compulsory fee for Health Service, he now believes that
this has been beneficial, both in increasing the quality and utilization of the service.
He concurred with Regent Power that Health Service has done a remarkable job in
performing more and better services with very moderate increases. He has confidence
that an appropriate educational program will be conducted during Safer Sex
Awareness Day.


-23 -



July Meeting, 1987


Dr. Briefer responded to Regent Baker's question that the cost of the condoms to
be distributed would be about $600. He noted also that the program had been
improperly reported in the media. Regent Baker reiterated that he feels the program
is in poor taste, overemphasizes the mechanics of sex, and should also emphasize the
alternative of abstinence.
Regent Roach suggested an analysis be done comparing services provided by the
Health Service with those provided by Blue Cross and other insurance policies. He
believes that the results will show that most services provided by Health Service are
not covered by other forms of health care insurance.
Regent Roach moved approval of the proposed 1987-88 health service fee.
Regent Baker moved to amend that motion to state that no condoms or dental dams
be given out using Health Service funds at the September 22 Safer Sex Awareness
Day. Regent Nielsen supported the amendment. President Shapiro stated that
regardless of what one feels about this particular initiative, it is in his view a very
ominous precedent for the board to pass an amendment to a budget bill regarding the
particular nature of a single activity.
A brief recess followed.
President Shapiro reconvened the meeting, and Regent Baker announced that he
would withdraw his amendment. The vote was then taken, and the motion to approve
the 1987-88 University Health Service Fee increase passed, with Regent Nielsen
voting no.
Brighton Health Care Center Certificate of Need
The Regents then returned to this issue, which had been tabled to he previous day.
Mr. Brinkerhoff stated that there can be no lease until the Certificate of Need has
been approved. In response to Regent Smith's question on the option to buy, he
stated that the University has first right of refusal on the current lease. Regarding
specifics of the lease, the University pays utilities and interior maintenance; the lessor
pays for exterior maintenance, etc. The University can sublet to units of the
University without approval, and can sublet to outside groups with the approval of the
lessor, which would not be unreasonably withheld. The lessor pays the taxes.
Regent Smith requested that the item be tabled until the next meeting, because
she did not have time to review the material she had just received. President Shapiro
suggested that the Regents approve the application for the certificate of need, and
delay approval of the specifics of the leasing arrangements until they had reviewed the
terms. Regent Nielsen moved approval of the application for a Certificate of Need for
expansion of the Brighton Health Care Center, and that approval of lease
arrangements for the Center be delayed until the after the Regents review documents
relating to the specifics of the lease. The motion was approved unanimously.
Rescission of Master of Science Degree Awarded to Wilson W. Crook III
The Regents approved the recission of the Master of Science degree that had
been awarded to Wilson W. Crook III on April 30, 1977.


-24 -



July Meeting, 1987


Associated Spring/Barnes Group Property
The Regents authorized The University of Michigan to purchase the property
located at 403 E. Stadium Boulevard, Ann Arbor, known as Associated Spring/Barnes
Group, at the appraised value or at a value established through condemnation.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned to meet again on
September 17 and 18, 1987. Total expenses for the month of June, 1987 were
$2,765.59.
ichard L. Kennedy, Sec


-25 -



SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1987


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, September 17, 1987
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith, Varner, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost
Duderstadt, and Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson were
also present, as were Chancellors Jenkins and Jones.
After President Shapiro called the meeting to order, Regent Roach offered the
following motion:
Executive Session Motion
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on September 17, 1987 at 5:00 PM in the Regents Room for the
purpose of considering material exempt from discussion or disclosure by the
Michigan Freedom of Information Act. Such exempt material consists of a
written opinion from the Board's legal counsel.
Pursuant to Section 8(a) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed session in the
Regents Room on September 17, 1987 immediately following the discussion
of the written opinion from the Board's legal counsel, for the purpose of
conducting a periodic personnel evaluation of the following University
officials, each of whom has requested a closed session evaluation:
Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Vice President for Research
Vice President for Government Relations and Secretary of the
University
Vice President for Student Services
Vice President for Development and Communication
Vice Provost for Medical Affairs
Chancellor of University of Michigan-Dearborn
Chancellor of University of Michigan-Flint
The vote was taken, and the motion passed unanimously.
Annual Financial Statements for 1986-87
Vice President Brinkerhoff introduced his annual report of the University's
financial condition, stating that the reports represent a total of $1.2 billion worth of
activity. He then proceeded to give a detailed review of the General fund, the
Designated Fund, the Auxiliary Activities Fund, the Expendable Restricted Fund, the
Student Loan Fund, the Endowment and Other Invested Funds, the Plant Fund, and
the Agency Fund for all three campuses.


-27 -



September Meeting, 1987


Compared with FY 1977-78, the proportion of expenditures for plant, equipment
and books has increased (from 6.7% to 9.2%), while the percent spent on total
compensation has decreased (from 68% to 62.6%). The University has thus achieved
a goal set forth in 1977 to create a better balance between human and material
resources by recognizing the importance of improving the physical plant and investing
more money in books and library acquisitions.
Over the past ten years, there has been an increasing dependence on student fees
to support the general fund, as relative state appropriations have gradually decreased.
Due to favorable weather conditions, the decision to purchase gas at the well head,
and the success of our energy conservation program, there has been a reduction in
general utilities costs. A part of these savings can now be permanently reallocated to
other programs. The utilities savings and other favorable variances allowed the
university to fund several high priority projects this year.
University Hospitals and the Medical Service Plans both had a successful year,
increasing their anticipated operating margins by substantial amounts. In its first six
months of operation, MCare revenues were running $300,000 over budget, but it was
still operating at less than a planned deficit of $1.5 million.
Vice President Brinkerhoff also noted that the Michigan Daily has done much
better than had been expected. Regent Baker pointed out that the Daily's policy of
free distribution paid off by increasing circulation and raising advertising revenues, a
strategy for which he commended them.
After giving further details about the year-end financial information, Vice
President Brinkerhoff discussed the Financial Statements for the years ended June 30,
1987 and 1986 in the auditors' report. Besides the funds listed above, the report also
includes financial statements for the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics,
University of Michigan Hospitals, University of Michigan Alumni Association, and the
Combined Medical Service Plans and Related Medical Funds. The Regents voted
unanimously to adopt the financial statements.
1987-88 Expenditure Budgets
Vice President Brinkerhoff pointed out that the Board had previously approved
the Revenue Budgets and had established the budget parameters that describe the
institution's goals and objectives, which are to be reflected in the expenditure budgets.
The 1987-88 budget represents an increase of 13% ($155 million) over the 1986-87
budget. 1987-88 revenues will total $1,336,587,502; expenditures are budgeted at
$1,327,239,708. Total General Fund revenues and expenditures for all three campuses
will each total $495,953,979.
Regent Roach noted several areas of concern regarding the policy implications of
some of the differences in this year's budget, as compared to last year's budget. These
include the apparent elimination of the budget for the Bureau of Accreditation and
School Improvement Studies, a significant decrease in scholarship and fellowship
funding in the School of Information and Library Studies and the School of Music, no
increase in the budgets for the University Bands and University Glee Clubs, and an
apparent decrease in one of the funding sources for University Press. He also
questioned the decrease in allocations for the IST Special Projects Division, the
Industrial Development Division, and the IST Innovation Center, all of which are
public service components under the administration of the Vice President for


-28 -



September Meeting, 1987


Research.
Vice President Wilson explained that the budgets in her units do not reflect a
shift in direction. In each of the units in question, there are vacant positions for which
the salaries have been placed in a central account to protect them as the proposed
realignment gets underway. Because these unexpended salary funds are not available
to be spent by the units for other uses, as is normally the case, the budgets appear to
have been decreased. Adding the salaries back into the budgets will show an increase
in investment in each of these units, not a decrease.
Regent Roach stressed the implications of reductions that appear to be occurring
in the public service components of the General Fund budget, especially that for the
Bureau of Accreditation and School Improvement Studies. Even though these may
only be "on paper" that is, they may only be listed as reductions for the purposes of
this budget report whereas in reality, such budgets may even be increased it is
disturbing to reflect on the public's perceptions of the policy implications of this type
of a document.
Provost Duderstadt reiterated that the budget document is not an accurate
representation of the actual state of affairs. He explained that the University is a
highly decentralized organization, in which resource decisions are made by the
individual units and managers are given a lot of discretion. The administration looks
at the overall results not individual budget decisions. He stressed that it is important
to look at the budget strategically, in terms of the overall picture.
Regent Power suggested that there are a number of reasons why budget figures
do not reflect reality, and that perhaps it would be more appropriate to think in terms
of outcomes desired and the costs associated with these outcomes. This would help in
linking policy decisions with budget allocations. We are limited, however, by the fact
that accounting and reporting restrictions limit the ability to do this.
Regent Roach again expressed his view of the importance of the University's
public service components. He feels that in light of the goodwill generated by the
services the University provides, these units should not only be maintained, but even
increased. It is important that citizens throughout the state be made aware of the
outstanding job The University of Michigan is doing to develop the economy of the
state, and that this also ought to be reflected in the budget.
Regent Smith expressed her concern that the cheerleading budget no longer
allows cheerleaders to go to away games. She was also distressed by the Big Ten
conference guidelines that limit the stunts that cheerleaders are allowed to perform.
Regent Nielsen moved that the Regents accept the 1987-88 budget; Regent
Power seconded the motion.
Regents Smith and Nielsen then asked for some background information about
the cheerleading situation and what can be done to allow the cheerleaders to go to
away games. Regent Smith also asked to be provided with some projections about
when MCare will reach the break-even point.
Regents Baker and Power both reiterated the Regents' belief in the importance
of the services that the University provides to the state. They felt that we should
explore means of making the public aware of the importance the University places on


-29 -



September Meeting, 1987


its public service components.
The vote was then called on the motion to approve the revenue and expenditure
operating budgets for 1987-88; it passed unanimously.
CESF Statement on Health Care Cost-Sharing Proposal
On behalf of the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty (CESF),
Professor Jesse Gordon next addressed the Regents about CESF's opposition to the
proposed increase in the base health/major medical rates slated to begin December 1,
1987. He stated CESF's belief that the increase would amount to a "selective salary
reduction" because it would decrease the take-home portion of this year's salary
increase for only the 50% of employees who have coverage for two or more persons.
This salary reduction would not be accompanied by any increase in benefits. In
stressing CESF's belief that the proposed increase in the cost of health insurance
coverage is unjustified, he pointed out that the University's share of health insurance
premiums has fallen from 85% to 75% over the past few years.
A brief recess followed.
Minutes of Meeting of July, 1987
The minutes of the meeting of July 18 and 19, 1987 were approved.
Criteria for Presidential Selection
Regent Brown then moved the adoption of the following criteria for presidential
selection:
The Presidential Selection Committee appreciates the reports on the
needs of The University of Michigan submitted by the Faculty, Student and
Alumni Committees, and is indebted to other groups and individuals who
have provided their insight and advice. Each Advisory Committee may
assess for itself the weight to be given each criterion. The order of the
criteria is not indicative of their importance.
A person having all of these desired characteristics may not be
found, and some characteristics will be regarded as more important than
others. The Presidential Selection Committee may modify the criteria as
the process of selection evolves.
The Presidential Selection Committee has determined that the
Eleventh President of The University of Michigan should:
1. Have an outstanding educational background, preferably
including a Ph.D. or terminal professional degree, together with stature in
his or her own field.
2. Have a demonstrated record of leadership and successful
administration, preferably at a senior level in a research university or
comparable institutions in business or government.
3. Be willing and able to serve in office for at least ten years.


-30 -



September Meeting, 1987


4. Be familiar with and effective in the political process and public
resource allocation at both state and national levels, and be able to relate
to and deal effectively with the Governor and members of the legislature.
5. Have a strong commitment to, and preferably an established
record of achievement in, affirmative action to increase participation by
underrepresented minorities and women.
6. Be sensitive to the problems of racial and ethnic minorities and
women on campus.
7. Be able to communicate effectively with the several internal and
external University constituencies, including the people of Michigan.
8. Possess outstanding integrity, courage and intellectual honesty.
9. Provide leadership to the University and higher education in the
state and nation.
10. Be committed to excellence in teaching, research, scholarship
and public service.
11. Have the capacity to lead in the development of a strategic
vision of the role and mission of The University of Michigan as both a
public university and as a world class research university, and be able to
communicate this vision.
12. By appropriate delegation of authority and responsibility, be
capable of managing a complex multi-campus university with relatively
autonomous schools and colleges and faculty, and with a major medical
center.
13. Be able to identify, recruit, motivate, and retain people of
outstanding quality as faculty, deans, and administrators, and develop and
implement plans to replace significant numbers of faculty that will retire in
the next decade.
14. Be an effective participating fund raiser.
15. Have an interest in and be capable of a critical examination of
undergraduate programs to satisfy the public interest in the quality and
cost of undergraduate education.
16. Be sensitive to personnel and labor relations matters and to
positive dealings with labor organizations.
17. Be sensitive to the opportunities and problems of branch
campuses.
18. Be able to anticipate problems arising from changing economic,
political and social conditions on the campus and in the state and nation,
and develop and implement appropriate plans and develop solutions prior
to crisis.


-31 -



September Meeting, 1987


The motion carried unanimously.
Regent Baker then made the following motion:
Appointment of Robben W. Fleming as Interim President
I move that Dr. Robben Fleming be named Interim President of The University
of Michigan at the time President Harold Shapiro vacates the Presidency, which date
is expected to be January 4, 1988.
Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Summary of Monthly Investments
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the summary of monthly investments as of
8/31/87. He noted that there have been more maturities than purchases during this
period because it is the period when the University uses some of its cash esources in
order to sustain its salary payrolls. In the listing of cash equivalent purchases, he
indicated that the missing number on page 3 of the report (August 1987 UM
temporary investments average yield to maturity) is 8.083. He also pointed out that
there is a report for the Michigan Individual Entrepeneur Project, run by Millard
Pryor with School of Business Administration students.
Regent Smith stated that she apprecated prreceiving data comparing
performance with that of Standard & Poor. She found it very meaningful, and hoped
this practice would continue on a regular basis.
University Endowment Fund Quarterly Inventory as of June 30,1987
Vice President Brinkerhoff submitted this report as an information item.
Regent Roach pointed out a typographical error in the first paragraph of the Regents
Communication. The statement "5.3 percent of the market value was invested in
non-rated stocks and 1.3 percent in stocks rated C or below" should be amended to read
"5.3 percent of the market value was invested in non-rated stocks and 1.3 percent in
stocks rated C or above".
Reports
The Regents next received the monthly reports on Plant Extension, Litigation,
and Personnel-Labor Relations. Vice President Wilson submitted the Summaries of a
Selection of Current Research and the report of Awards Received: Research and
Other Academic Activities.
Public Comments
The Regents heard remarks from the following people on the topics indicated:
Seth Hirshorn, Associate Professor, UM-Dearborn and member, Ann Arbor City
Council, on Housing in Ann Arbor; Judy Levy, Staff member, on job-related problems;
and John Vintilla, Alumnus, on the plight of Professor Rosu.
The meeting was recessed to meet in closed session.


-32 -



September Meeting, 1987


Friday, September 18, 1987
The Regents met at 9:00 AM.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith, Varner, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost
Duderstadt, and Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson were
also present, as were Chancellors Jenkins and Jones.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order, and proceeded to the next item
on the agenda.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted monthly reports of gifts received for June,
July, and August, 1987, the Development and Communication Activity Report for July
and August, 1987, the Campaign Progress and Campaign Phase II Reports for August,
1987, and the Summary Report for FY 1986-87.
The Regents received gifts from the following sources, which were accepted with
thanks and in accordance with their terms and conditions:
Adray Appliance & Photo Center, Inc. Dearborn
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan-Dearborn,
and the Henry For Estate at Fair Lane                                   6,100
Adria Laboratories, Inc., Columbus, Ohio
for pharmacology research in the Medical School                         7,500
Allied Foundation, Morristown, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts Fund                                        7,585
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public
Health, and in the College of Pharmacy                                115,846
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.
for research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts        52,000
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                      9,189
American Electric Power Service Corporation Columbus,Ohio;
for the Donald C. Cook Chair m the School of Business
Administration                                                          5,000
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                     37,734
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the Medical School                                     11,667
Anonymous Donor
for Chinese Studies support in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                        5,000
Irma Anschutz Estate
gift of a land contract for the Alice Lloyd Fund
m the Housing Division                                                 17,950
Apple Computer Inc., Cupertino, California
for psychology research in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                       10,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                                      5,100
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                     23,313


-33 -



September Meeting, 1987


AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts Fund                                          6,645
Edward Austin Company, Inc., Midland
for the Edward Austin Jones Memorial in the
School of Business Administration                                        10,000
Best Products Foundation Richmond, Virginia
for support of the Center for Continuing Education of Women              33,000
Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Michigan, Detroit
for the 1987 Golf Classic Benefit for The University of Michigan Hospitals  10,000
Albert Bradley Estate
for support of the School of Business Administration                     10,000
Bristol-Myers Company, New York New York
for support of the School of Business Administration                     10,000
Burroughs Corporation, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts Fund                                          5,305
Chie Yuan Chen Far Hills, New Jersey
for transplant fellowships in the Medical School                         18,000
Chicago Community Trust, Ciicago Illinois
for chemical research in the College of Literature Science and the Arts  15,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                        8,541
Chrysler Corporation Fund Detroit
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan -
College of Engineering Component                                        250,000
Conoco, Inc., Ponca City, Oklahoma
for the IndustrialAffiliates Program in the College of Engineering       15,000
Council on Library Resources, Washington, D.C.
for research in the School of Information and
Library Studies, and the University Libraries                            50,928
Rachel Stephens Davis Estate
for the Rachel Stephens Davis Medical Student Loan Fund                  36,166
Mignon Sherwood Delano Trust
for the Earl Warren Delano Professorship in the Law School              750,000
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program, Inc.,
Detroit; for support ofthe College of Engineering                         5,000
Diasonics, Inc., South San Francisco California
for magnetic imagng research in the Medical School                       18,750
Dow Chemical U.SA. Midland
for support of the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Dunn & Bradstreet Corporation Foundation, New York, New York;
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                          9,200
Dykema, Gossett, Spencer, Goodnow and Trigg, Detroit
pledge payment for the Institute of Continuing
Legal Education in the Law School                                         8,000
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support of the School of Business Administration                     22,489
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                         11,098
Ernst & Whinney Foundation, Cleveland Ohio
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                         22,870
Exxon Education Foundation, New York New York
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                          6,683
First of America Bank-Ann Arbor
sledge payments for the Campaign for Michigan -
chool of Business Administration Component                               5,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
ledge payments for the Campaign for Michigan -
_ollege of Engineering and Dearborn Campus
Components, and for Employee Matching Gifts funds                       582,391
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for automotive transportation research in the
Institute of Science and Technology                                      10,000
Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California
for thrombolysis research in the Medical School                          28,160
B. F. Goodrich Company, Cleveland, Ohio
for materials science support in the College of Engineering              40,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Center for Human Growth and Development,
and in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts                   47,103


-34 -



September Meeting, 1987


William and Mary Greve Foundation, New York, New York
for Russian and East European Studies research in
the College of Literature, Science and the Arts                          15,000
Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                          25,000
GTE Service Corporation, Stamford, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                          8,995
Halliburton Services Division of Halliburton Company,
Duncan, Oklahoma; for the Industrial Affiliates
Program in the College of Engineering                                    15,000
William Randolph Hearst Foundation New York, New York
for research in the Center for Human Growth and Development              30,000
Helzberg Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
pledge payment for the Helberg Scholarship
m the School of Business Admimstration                                   10,000
Hercules Machine Tool & Die Company, Warren
pledge payment for support ot The University of
Micigan-Dearborn, Armenian Studies Program                              100,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Par-k, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science and the
Arts, and in the School of Natural Resources                            200,000
International Business Machines Corporation New Haven,
Connecticut; for Employee Matching Gifts fund                            37,464
International Heart of Variety, Inc. New York, New York
for the International Heart gurgery Program in the Medical School         5,000
International Women's Health Coalition, NewYork, New York
for research in the School of Public Health                               9,206
Janssen Pharmaceutica Piscataway, New Jersey
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School                      34,190
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso~ Indiana
for the Joseph and Louise Ada Jarabak-Funds mn the School of Dentistry   10,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contributions Fund
New Brunswick, New Jersey; for Employee Matching Gifts fund              13,532
Phyllis K. Johnson Estate
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                   15,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health                66,925
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Max Kade Fund in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                      5,800
John Harvey Kellogg, M.D. Estate
for the John Harvey Kellogg Genetics Fund in the Medical School          16,000
Louise E. Kendrick Estate
For general scholarships and fellowships                                 44,476
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh
for the Forney W. Clement Memorial for patient care
activities, The University of Michigan Hospitals                         18,150
Earl E. Kleinschmidt Trust, Frankenmuth
for unrestricted support of the Medical School                           36,480
KMD Foundation, Ann Arbor
for fellowships in the Medical School                                    22,102
Leukemia Research Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                        8,467
Leukemia Society of America Inc. New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                       22,140
Eli Lilly & Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
tor the Associates Program in the School of Business
Administration, and for Employee Matching Gifts funds                     5,475
Lupus Foundations of America, Inc., Washington, D.C.
for research in the Medical School                                       15,000
Maccabees Mutual Life Insurance Company, Southfield
for the Maccabees Mutual Scholarship fund at The University
of Michigan-Dearborn and for Employee Matching Gifts funds                8,100
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Armenian Studies Program in the College of
Literature Science and the Arts                                          15,540
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains,
New York; for research in the Center for Human Growth and
Development, and in the Medical School                                   33,736


-35 -



September Meeting, 1987


Neil McKay, Geneva, Illinois
for scholarships in the Law School                                         5,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research fund                 12,445
Edwin E. Meader, Parchment
for general scholarships and fellowships                                   5,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey
for support of the School of Business Administration fund                  5,000
Mette Foundation, Detroit
for the Norman Mette Scholarship in the Medical School                     5,000
Michigan Bell Telephone Company, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                           5,156
Michigan Consolidated Gas Company, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                           5,833
Michigan Eye-Bank% Ann Arbor
For the Michigan Eye-Bank Fund, The University of Michigan Hospitals      50,000
Michigan Federation of Business and Professional Women's
Clubs, Inc., Kalamazoo; for scholarships in the School of Nursing         12,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul,
Minnesota; for scholarships in the College of
Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts funds                        13,700
Mobil Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
pledge payments for the Campaign for Michigan -
chool of Business Administration and College of Engineering
Components and for Employee Matching Gifts funds                          25,450
Philip Morrs, Inc., New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                           8,386
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association of the United States,
Inc., Detroit; for highway safety research in the
Institute of Science and Technology                                       31,500
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for research in the Institutes of Gerontology,
and Science and Technology                                                75,000
National Dairy Promotion and Research Board, Arlington,
Virginia, for research in the Medical School                              38,842
John M. Olin Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for Slavic Languages research in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                          20,000
Peat, Marwick Mitchell Foundation, Detroit
for the Peat, Marwick Mitchell Professorship in the
School of Business Administration, and for Employee
Matching Gifts funds                                                      35,115
Pew Memorial Trust, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the School of Public Health                              196,000
Polish American Congress Charitable Foundation, Inc., Chicago,
Illinois; for theNicolaus Copernicus Collegiate
Professorship in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts           5,000
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene B. Power Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Power Center for the Performing Arts              119,700
Genevieve E. Rains Estate
for support of the Mott Children's Hospital, and the Alumni Association   40,000
Douglas P. Rearick, Stuart, Florida
for the Reanck Fellowships in the School of Education                     10,000
Therese Remine Estate
for the Therese Remine Funds in the Medical School fund                   14,698
RGK Foundation Austin, Texas
for research in the Institute of Public Policy Studies                     5,000
James M. and Janice C. Rifkin Fund of the Jewish Welfare
Federation, Bloomfield Hills; for scholarships in the Department of Athletics  5,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                         66,975
Schering Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for fellowships and other support in the College of Pharmacy              15,500
Raymond Schoder Charitable Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Schoder Cleft Palate Fund in the School of Dentistry              60,000
Siemens Medical Systems, Inc., Iselin, New Jersey
pledge payments for cardiology research in the Medical School            100,000
Skin Cancer Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                         5,000


-36 -



September Meeting, 1987


Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts         25,000
W. Dean Smith, Ann Arbor
Dow Chemical Company common stock- a donor pooled income
contribution for the ultimate benefit of the School of Music            52,812
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council, Inc., New York,
New York; for patholoy research in the Medical School                   26,729
Sperry Corporation, Roseville Minnesota
for solid-state support in the College of Engineering                    10,000
Spina Bifida Association of America, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                       5,000
Supreme Council 33rd Degree AA.S.R. Benevolent
Foundation of the Northern Masonic Jurisdiction,
Lexington, Massachusetts; for the Scottish Rites
Research Funds in the Medical School                                     6,181
Texaco Inc., Denver, Colorado
for geology support in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts   6,000
Frances Willson Thompson Trust, Flint
for the Thompson Archives at The University of Michigan-Flint           75,000
Darle L. Tobel Novi
for the Charles T. Tobel Memorial in the Medical School                  5,000
Dr. and Mrs. Harry A. Towsley, Ann Arbor
For support of the University Musical Society                           39,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Education
Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for research
in the Center for Human Growth and Development                           11,946
University of Michigan Club of Detroit Scholarship Fund,
Birmingham, for scholarships in the Department of Athletics              11,552
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
pledge payments for the Campaign for Michigan -
Chemical Sciences Facilities, and the Upjohn
Endowments in the Medical School and the College
of Pharmacy, and for Employee Matching Gifts funds                     409,270
Robert Vanderkloot, Bloomfield Hills
pledge payment for support of the Medical School                         6,000
Warner-Lambert Foundation Morris Plains New Jersey
for support of the Medical School ana the Museum of Art                 24,000
West Michigan Industrial Sales Company, Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                          5,000
Westinghouse Educational Foundations Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for suport of the School of Business Administration                     15,000
Whiting Foundation Flint
for support of the Medical School and The University of Michigan-Flint  24,000
Wills Foundation, Houston, Texas
For research in the Medical School                                       7,500
Judy and Fred Wilpon Family Foundation, Inc., Great Neck, New York;
for the Henry Pearce Endowed Scholarship in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts funds                       25,000
World Health Organization, Zurich Switzerland
for research in the College of Pharmacy, and
in the School of Public Health                                         198,008
World Society Foundation, Zurich, Switzerland
for political science research in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                         5,237
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health
and in the College of Pharmacy                                          89,162
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                      115,670
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School, and the Division of Physical Education  105,422
American Lung Association New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                      35,750
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships in the College of Engineering,
and for Employee Matching Gifts Fund                                     7,650


-37 -



September Meeting, 1987


Herbert S. Amstar, Ann Arbor
Irwin Magnetics Systems. Inc common stock; for
research m the Medical School                                           10,750
Anonymous Donor
Royal Dutch Petroleum common stock; pledge payment for
the Campaign for Michigan - Replacement Hospital Component fund          28,706
Gertrude Binzer Trust
for support of The University of Michigan Cancer Center                 55,099
Boehringer kgelheim, Ltd., Ridgefield, Connecticut
for pharmacology research in the Medical School                          15,000
Boeing Company, Seaftle, Washington
for scholarships and other student aid in the College of Engineering    11,000
Chevron U.SA., Inc., Concord, California
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                         6,985
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                      13,925
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                         17,441
Creative Biomolecules, Inc., Hopkinton, Massachusetts
for pharmacology research in the Medical School                          10,000
D and R Fund, Chicago, Illinois
for the William A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                      33,321
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                       6,250
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
pledge payment for the Paul W. McCracken Collegiate
rofessorship in the School of Business Administration                   20,000
Margaret Avery Downs Estate
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                   19,823
Ebco Enterprises, EmeryvMe, California
for tlie Everett E. Berg Professorship in the School
of Business Administration                                             200,000
Jane G. Enggas Fund of the Greater Kansas City Community
Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri; for the Carl E.
Enggas Memorial Scholarship in the Law School                           75,000
Ole Evinrile Foundation, Chicago,lllinois
for the Ole Evinrude Foundation Fellowship in the
College of Engineering                                                   5,000
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York
for faculty assistance programs in the College of
Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts funds                      21,335
Flint Area HealthFoundation, Flint
for support of The University of Michigan-Flint                          6,286
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for fellowships and research support in the College of Engineering      190,000
Mary Ellen Fralick, Pinckney
Home Depot, Inc common stock; for the F. Bruce
Fralick Endowed Professorship in the Medical School                      18,994
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan -
Replacement Hospital Component Fund                                     400,000
Glaxo, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School and in the College of Pharmacy        6,420
Lawrence M. Goodspeed Trust Farmington Hills
for support ofthe School of Business Administration                     20,000
Greater Flint Area Hospital Assembly, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint Physical Therapy Program            11,250
Virinder S. Grewal, Williamston
for the Sikh Studies Endowment in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                         5,000
GTE Information Systems, Inc., Camillus, New York
for communications research in the College of Engineering                10,000
Hughes Aircraft Company Los Angeles California
for support of the College ofEngmeering, and
for Employee Matching Gifts Fund                                         13,000
Huron Mountain Wildlife Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Natural Resources                          5,000


-38 -



September Meeting, 1987


Johnson Controls Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for research in the Institute of Science and Technology                  5,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Medical School                                     128,200
Jestine Klein Estate
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                  85,585
LaFontaine Brothers, Inc., Arbor Dodge Ann Arbor
for the 1987 Golf Classic Benefit for The University of Michigan Hospitals  5,000
W. Eugene Lane Revocable Living Trust Romeo
for research in the MedicalSchool                                        10,000
Sara Lee Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
pledge payment for the Paul W. McCracken Collegiate
Professorship in the School of Business Administration                  20,000
Leukemia Society oT America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                      23,705
Lilly Endowment, Inc., Indianapolis Indiana
for Lilly Endowment Fellowsipin the College of Pharmacy                 35,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthurFoundation, Chicago
Illinois; for support of The University of Michigan-Flint                7,500
Mr. and Mrs. Harold M. Marko, Bloomfield Hills
for unrestricted endowment in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                        10,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research fund                    6,418
Mary E. Mulholland Estate
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                   5,588
National Geographic Society, Washington, D.C.
for antnropology research in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                    20,400
National Kidney Foundation of Michgan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                      21,500
Parker-Hannifmi Foundtio, Cleveland, Ohio
for general endowment in the Law School                                 10,000
Pew Memorial Trust, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Pew Scholars Program in Biomedical Sciences,
in the Medical School                                                   50,000
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Inc.,
Washington, D.C.,; for support of research and
predoctoral fellowships in the College of Pharmacy                      18,852
Jenny M. Phillips Estate
for the Jenny M. Phillips Scholarship in Englis,
College of Literature Science and the Arts                              91,093
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarship Trust, Burlington,
Massachusetts; for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial
Scholarships in the Schools of Dentistry and
Medicine, and in the College of Pharmacy                                11,170
Mildred M. Roblee Trust
for support of the School of Information and Library Studies            20,000
Mabel E. Rugen Ann Arbor
for the Ela E. McNeil Memorial Scholarship in the School of Nursing      5,000
Professor and Mrs. Charles H. Sawyer, Ann Arbor
Bank of New Hampshire Corporation common stock and cash
gft of $1,375; for the Charles H. and Katherine C. Sawyer
Fellowship in the Museum of Art                                         15,188
Fred E. Shaw Trust
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                   7,074
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature Science and
the Arts, and in the Institute for Social Research funds                70,000
Squibb-Novo, Inc. Princeton, New Jersey
for the Stefan S. Fajans Symposium in the Medical School                 5,000
Stanley Electric Company, Ltd., Tokyo Japan
for transportation safety research in the Institute of
Science and Technology                                                  15,000
Ester C. Stone Charitable Trust Flint
for the Esther C. Stone Fund, The University of Michigan-Flint           9,434
Time, Inc., New York, New York
for Professional Journalism Fellowships in the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts                                     18,000


-39 -



September Meeting, 1987


Touche Ross & Company, Detroit
for support of the School of Business Administration                     8,000
Frederick S. Turneaure Trust
for the Campaign for Michigan - Geological Science Component            100,000
Union Pacific Foundation, New York, New York
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan-Geological Sciences Component  50,000
UnitedCerebral Palsy Research and Educational Inc.,
New York, New York; for research in the Medical School                   21,331
United States Pharmacopeial Convention, Inc. Rockville,
Maryland for research in the College of Pharmacy                         6,000
Versacom, nc., Dearborn Heights
pledge payment for the Alex Manoogian Chair in Modern Armenian
History in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts              8,000
Ronald 0. Warner, Flint
Dow Chemical Company common stock;pledge payment for
the Campaign for Michigan - College of Engineering
Component, and a unitrust contribution for the ultimate
benefit of the School of Social Work                                     8,669
Westinghouse Educational Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for scholarships in the College of Engineering                          20,000
Westwood Lions Club, Flushing
for the Westwood Heights Lions Club Scholarship,
The University of Michigan-Flint                                         5,000
Philip R. Wheeler Estate
for the Wheeler Family Memorial Funds in the College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, and in the Schools of
Art, Education, Natural Resources and Social Work                       32,000
Allied Corporation, Morristown, New Jersey
for biophysics research in the Institute of Science and Technology       5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc.,     New York, New York
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health               40,395
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                      23,750
Anonymous Donor
for support of the School of Social Work                                 15,000
Anti-Defamation League New York, New York
for the Shanik-Fleischer Forum Series in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts                             15,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                                      12,500
Robert Arthur Estate
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                  30,206
Michael M. Assarian, Southfield
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Law School                5,000
Donald E. Barris, Birmingham
for unrestricted support of the Law School                               5,000
William G. Barris, West Bloomfield
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Law School                5,000
Barris, Sott, Denn and Kriker, Detroit
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Law School                5,000
Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Leo Burnett Scholars Awards in the School
of Business Administration, and in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                        28,267
Children's Leukemia Foundation fo Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                      13,716
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for mathematics support in the College of Literature
Science and the Arts, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund               5,985
Council for Chemical Research, Inc., Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania; for research in the College of Engineering
and in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts                   8,054
Charles A. Dana Foundation, New York New York
for research in the Medical School                                      129,400
David L. Denn, West Bloomfield
for unrestricted support of the Law School                               5,000


-40 -



September Meeting, 1987


Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
pledge payment for the Detroit Edison Educational
Endowment Award, The University of Michigan-Dearborn                    10,000
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                        16,338
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for the du Pont Foundamental Research Grant in the
College of Engineering, and for support of the Medical Schools          6,500
Ethel and James Flinn Foundation, Detroit
for the Flinn Foundation Research Fund in the Medical School           75,000
Ford Land Company, Menlo Park, California
for general endowment in the Law School fund                           25,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for research and other support in the College of Engineering            17,500
Ford Motor Company Dearborn
for support of the Colleges of Engineering, and Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                   145,000
Ford Motor Company Enginering, Dearborn
for support of the College of Engineering                              30,869
Sumner J. Foster, Lexington, Massachusetts
VF Corporation common stock; pledge payment for the Sumner
and Laura Foster Economics Library m the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                        18,875
Bruce Frankel, Birmingham
for scholarships m the Department of Athletics                          15,000
Harold and Roberta rench, Arlington, Texas
pledge payment for the Margaret Wray Anthropology
Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science and
the Arts                                                                5,000
Donald N. Frey, Skokie, Illinois
Bell & Howell Company common stock; for the Campaign
for Michigan - College of Engineering Component                        112,750
Genentech, Inc., South SanFrancisco, California
for support of the School of Dentistry                                  8,400
General Motors Corporation Detroit
for research in the College of Engineering                              11,250
Gibbs Brothers Foundation, New York, New York
for naval architecture scholrships in the College of Engineering        7,500
Herbst Foundation, Inc., San Franisco, California
for general endowment in the Law School                                 5,000
Suzanne W. Hogg, Ann Arbor
for support of the School of Dentistry                                  5,000
Jansen Pharmaceutica, Piscataway, New Jersey
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School                     19,790
Pauline C.-]ones Estate
for the Roger M. Jones Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering      50,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
pledge payments for The University Library User Access
Development Fund, and for the Campaign for Michigan -
Chemical Sciences Facilities Component                               5,966,157
Kenney-Michigan Rehabilitiation Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                      7,042
K.F.M. Charitable Fund, Ann Arbor,
for sup.port of the Clements Library                                    10,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh
for the Forney W. Clement Memorial for patient care
activities The University of Michigan Hospitals                         9,075
LKB Sciences, Bromma, Sweden
for support of the Medical School                                       5,000
Oscar A. Lundin, Bloomfield Hills
pledge payment for support of the Medical School                         5,000
Thomas B.McDonald1 Skaneateles New York
for the International Heart Surgery Program in the Medical School       60,000
McGraw Foundtion, Wheeling, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration     7,500
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research fund               11,577
Michigan Eye-Bank and Transplantation Center, Ann Arbor
for the Michigan Eye-Bank Fund, The University of Michigan Hospitals   35,000


-41 -



September Meeting, 1987


Ivalita Miner, Sarasota, Florida
pledge payment for support of the Program on the Teaching
of EticarValues, School of Education fund                                5,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United
States, Inc., Detroit for highway safety research
in the Institute and Technology                                         250,562
National Geographic Society Washngton, D.C.
for research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts          9,900
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc.
Baltimore, Maryland; for research in the Medical School                  16,542
New York Times Company Foundation, Inc., New York
New York; pledge payment for the Journalists in Residence Endowment
in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts                       50,000
Donald H. Roberts Company, Scottsdale, Arizona
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                5,000
Mr. and Mrs. Don W. Robimson, Ann Arbor
Johnson Controls, Inc., common stock; pledge payment
for unrestricted support of the Campaign for  ichigan                     9,364
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for population studies research in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                        13,204
Francis E. Ross Grand Cayman Island West Indies
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration                                        5,000
Shell Companies Foundation, Inc. Houston, Texas
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                         17,386
Shell Development Company, Houston, Texas
for the Robotics Industrial Affiliates Program
in the College of Engineering                                            10,482
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D. Martha B. and Mabel I. Sledd
Loan Fund in the Medical School                                          7,880
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for mathematics research in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                        13,700
Audra Cook Smith, Lorain, Ohio
for the Presdent's fund                                                  10,000
A. 0. Smith Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Campaign for Michigan      5,000
Alice A. Stoddard Trust
for the Alice A. Stoddard Scholarship in the Medical School              10,913
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics,
and the Alumni Association fund                                          12,219
Universities Space Research Association, Columbia,
Maryland, for bioelectrical sciences research in the College of Engineering  9,000
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for the Upiohn Fellowship in Chemical Engineering in the
College oTEngineering, for rheumatology research m the
Medical School, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund                     15,585
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton,
New Jersey for History of Art Fellowships in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts                             12,500
Norma I. Yahr Estate
for support of The University of Michigan Hospitals                      17,034
S.K. Yee Foundation New York New York
for the S. K. Yee Scholarships fund in the Law School                   50,000
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Alfred Berkowitz, Birmingham
240 objets d'art; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn
Everest & Jennings Inc., Camarille California
An Everest & Jennings ultralite wheelchair; for the Department of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation
Michael D. Highfield, Annm Arbor
A 16 foot sailboat, and a boat trailer; for Camp Michigania


-42 -



September Meeting, 1987


Charles W. Newton, Jr., Ann Arbor
Chinese porcelains ca. 1900; for the Clements Library Art Collection
Bisco Products, Inc., Elk Grove, Illinois
three neutron shield panels; for the Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project
John H. Bryant, Ann Arbor
antenna research equipment; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
James V. McConnell, Ann Arbor
computer equipment; for the Department of Psychology
Norton, Hambelton, Inc., Ann Arbor
a Tektronix graphics terminal; for the Statistical Research Laboratory in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies
Toshiko Ogita, Los Angeles, California
eighteen Chinese, Japanese, and Korean ceramics; for the Museum of Art
James G. Ravin, Toledo, Ohio
a Storz radial keratotomy unit; for the Kellogg Eye Center
Mary R. Riomig-De Young, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
an 1850 English vio a; for the Sters Collection in the School of Music
John I. Todor, Pleasant Hill, California
a collection of research journals, textbooks, and other associated journals; for the Department of
Kinesiology
Ayres, Lewis, Norris & May, Ann Arbor
a Nova III/D computer system; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Dr. and Mrs. Irving F. Burton, Huntington Woods
a Rajasthan sculpture, black stone; for the Musuem of Art
Kenneth DiVito, Troy
a full-color rendering of The University of Michigan-Dearborn Library; for The University of
Michigan-Dearborn
Edison Institute, Dearborn
books orginally owned by Henry Ford; for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane
Enron Corporation, Omaha, Nebraska
mechanical equipment; for the Department of Mechanical Engineering
Roger Fitch Grosse Pomte
a Willem Blaeu map of the western hemisphere, ca 1640; for the Clements Library
Jerome Miller, Ann Arbor
an Everest & Jennings electric wheelchair; for the Department of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation
Newport Corporation, Fountain Valley, California
an optical table top and support system; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science
Physical Therapy Specialists P.C., Troy
two Rich Mar IV ultra sound machines; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn, Department of
Athletics


-43 -



September Meeting, 1987


Personnel Actions
The Regents approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND
FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1987
Ruth E. Little, Sc.D  Associate Professor of Epidemiology
Dennis E. Lopatin, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Dentistry, also Research Scientist, School of Dentistry
George E. Pickett M.D., Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration
Robert W. Stach, Ph.D., Professor of Chemistry, UM-Flint
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1987
Brian A. Burt, Ph.D., from Associate Professor to Professor of Dentistry, also holds title Professor of
Dental Public Health, with tenure
Laura Crow MA. Associate Professor of Theatre and Drama
Stephen A. tdlund, D.D.S., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor, School of Dentistry, also
holds title Associate Professor of Dental Public Health, with tenure
Carolyn M. Gilles ie M.F.A., Associate Professor of Theatre
Tamas Gombosi, Ph.., Associate Professor of Business Administration, also appointed Associate
Professor of Computer and Information Science
Timothy L. Killeen Ph.., Associate Professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Science
Ira M. Schwartz, IMA., Professor of Social Work
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
Julia Woods Andrews, Professor Emeritus of Art, appointed to teach a class
Robin Barlow, Professor of Economics, reappointed Director of the Center for Research on Economic
Development
David F. Bohri Professor Emeritus of Physiology, reappointed as a consultant for the Medical School,
July 1,21987
Olin L. Browder, Jr., James V. Campbell Professor Emeritus, reappointed to teach a class in the Law
School for the Fall term 198T
Frank William Comstock, Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, reappointed as a consultant for the Dental
School
David G. Dickinson, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, as a consultant in
the Medcial School
Susan M. Eklund, reappointed as Associate Dean for Student Affairs and Operations, Law School for a
three-year term, July 1, 1987
Virginia B. Gordan, reappointed as Assistant Dean for the Law School
John R. G. Gosling, Associate Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology, reappointed to teach
in the Medical School
Rodney J. Grambeau, Professor Emeritus of Physical Education, reappointed to teach a class in the
Division of Physical Education for the Fall term, 1987
James B. Griffin, Professor Emeritus of Anthropology and Curator Emeritus of Archaeology for a one
year term, July 1, 1987
John W. Hagen, Professor of Psychology, reappointed Director of the Center for Human Growth and
Development
Joseph E. Hawkins, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Otorhinolaryngology, reappointed as consultant in the
Medical School, August 1, 1987
Willard J. Hendrickson, Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, to teach a class in the Medical School
Samuel P. Hicks, Professor Emeritus of Pathology, reappointed as consultant in the Medical School
Maxwell 0. Reade, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, reappointed to counsel students in the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts for Fall term, 1987
Dennis Rigan, Professor Emeritus of Physicsl Education, reappointed to teach a class in the Division of
Physical Education Fall term, 1987
James H.Robertson, Professor Emeritus, reappointed to teach a class in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, Fall term. 1987
Gustave A. Rosseels, Professor Emeritus of Music, reappointed to teach a class for the summer
half-term, July 1 1987
Thomas B. A. Senior, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, reappointed Acting
Chair of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science


-44 -



September Meeting, 1987


Scott K. Simonds, Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, reappointed Assistant Dean of
Curriculum, School of Public Health for a three-year term
Richard E. Sonntag Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, reappointed
Chair of the bepartment of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, for a five-year
term July 1,1987
Eric Stein Hessel E. Yntema Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach a class in the Law School for the
Fall term, 1987
Aaron M. Stern, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases appointed as a
consultant for the Medical School for a one-year term, December 1, 1987
Kenneth E. Vance, Professor Emeritus of School of Information and Library Studies, appointed to teach
a class in the School of Information and Library Studies, Fall term, 1987
Robert D. Vinter Arthur Dunham Professor Emeritus of Social Work, appointed as a consultant in the
School of Social Work
Frederick H. Wagman, Professor Emeritus of School of Information and Library Studies, to teach a
class in the School of Information and Library Studies, Fall term, 1987
Herschel Weil, Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engieering and Computer Science, appointed as a
co-principal investigator in the College of Engineerg, for a one-year term, June 1, 1987
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR
FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
Edward J. Bagale, from Assistant Vice-Chancellor to Associate Vice-Chancellor for Government
Relations and Director of Admissions UM-Dearborn
Lawrence S. Berlin, Associate Professor of UEducation, and also appointed Associate Dean of the School
of Education for a one-year term August 1,1987
Thomas D. Gelehrter, from Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Human
Genetics without tenure, to Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, and Professor of
Human Genetics, with tenure; also appointed Chair of the Department of Human Genetics
C. Philip Kearney, Professor of Education, with tenure, appointed Associate Dean of the School of
Education for a one-year term
Beverly S. Mitchell, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, also appointed Professor of
Pharmacology, without tenure
Ronald H. Olsen, Professor of Microbiology, Assistant Vice President for Research, also appointed
Acting Director of the Institute of Science and Technolo  for a one-year term
Rudy J. Richardson Professor of Toxicology, with tenure, in the  epartment of Environmental and
Industrial fealth, appointed Associate Professor of Neurotoxicology in the Department of
Neurology, without tenure
Roger Verhey, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Education without
tenure, UM-Dearborn
Onur M. Ulgen, Associate Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, and appointed Acting
Chair of the Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering fcr a four-month term,
UM-Dearborn
Richard L. Wahl, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, appointed Associate Professor
of Radiology, without tenure
The following committee appointments were approved.
School of Business Administration Executive Committee
RichardP. Bagozzi, for the period ending June 30, 1988, vice Martin B. Zimmerman, resigned
Henderson House Board of Governors
Anne Kirby Rubin, to succeed herself, for a three-year term ending June 30 1990
Elizabeth Graham, for a three-year term, ending June 30, 190, vice Louise Mattick, term expired
School of Education Executive Committee UM-Dearborn
Rosalyn Saltz, for a three-year term, September 1, 1987 through August 31, 1990, vice Jane Romatowski,
term expired
Michigan League Board of Governors
Patricia Gallagher, for the period ending April 30, 1989, vice Jean D. Cobb, term expired
Charlotte Hanson, for the period ending April 30,1989, vice Susan Bonfield, resigned
Medical School Executive Committee
Alphonse R. Burdi for the period ending August 31,1988, vice Richard L. Malvin, resigned
Kathleen P. Heidefberger, for a three-year term, ending August 31, 1990, vice Robert P. Kelch, term
expired
Irving H.TFox, for a three-year term, ending August 31,1990, vice Harold A. Oberman, term expired


-45 -



September Meeting, 1987


UM-Dearbom Citizens Advisory Committee
Mrs. Majorie Powell
Mr. Wade Shade
Mr. Harry Tauber
Mr. Roger E. Winkelman
The Regents also approved the extension of four scholarly activity leaves.
Vennema Professor of Chemical Engineering. The Regents approved the
appointment of H. Scott Fogler as the Vennema Professor of Chemical Engineering.
The appointment is to remain in effect as long as Professor Fogler holds an active,
tenured appointment in the College of Engineering.
James B. and Grace J. Nelson Philosophers-in-Residence. The Regents
approved the establishment of two new titles, each to be called the James B. and
Grace J. Nelson Philosopher-in-Residence, to be held by distinguished visiting
philosophers for a week or more.
The Regents appointed Brian Loar as James B. and Grace J. Nelson Philosopher
in Residence for the period of October 19-23, 1987.
The Regents appointed Sydney Shoemaker as James B. and Grace J. Nelson
Philosopher-in-Residence for the period of February 29 - March 4, 1988.
Personnel Reports
The following Personnel Reports were received by the Regents:


-46 -



September Meeting, 1987


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Elizabeth S. Anderson, A.M., Philosophy
Carol L. Barash MA. English Language and Literature
Jill B. Becker, Ph.D. Psychology
Patrice S. Beddor, P.D., Lingstics
Paul A. Perry, Ph.D. History of Art
Peter M. Beudert, M.FA., Theatre and Drama
Dorothy E. Booth Ph.D., Nursing
Carol J. Boyd, Ph.D., Nursing
Kemp B. Cease, M.D. Internal Medicine, July 1 1987
Stephen W. Chensue, VMD., Pathology, July 1,1987
Gracia C. Clark, Ph.D. Anthropology and Afro-American Studies
Sandra K. Danziger, P.D., Social Work
Deborah Dwork, Ph.D., Public Health Policy and Administration
Constance A. Flanagan, Ph.D., Psychology, UM-Dearborn
Betsy Foxman, Ph.D., Epidemiology
C. Martin Gaskell, Ph.D., Astronomy
Charles L. Glaser Ph.D. Political Science
Jessy W. Grizzle, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Margo Halsted, MA., Music
Dennis P. Han, M.D., Ophthalmolog, July 27 1987
Curtis A. Hanson, M.D., Pathology,July 1, 1987
Edward Harabetian, Ph.D., Mathematics
Paul M. Hughes, Ph.D., Philosophy, UM-Dearborn
Eva M. Jarawan, Ph.D., Health Care, UM-Flint
Alan Kadish, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1987
Leo Katz, J.D., Law, July 1, 1987
Paul D. Killen,     Pathology, July 1 1987
Miles S. Kimball, Ph.., Economics, July 1, 1987
Kris Kissman, Ph.D., Social Work
Paul Knochel, Ph.D., Chemistry
Sherrie A. Kossoudi, Ph.D., Economics
Robert Krasny, Ph.D., Mathematics
John H. Lewis, Ph.D., Mathematics, UM-Dearborn
Rosina L. Lippi, Ph.D., Germanic Languages and Literatures
George F. Lord, III, Sociology, UM-Flint
Michael R. Lucey, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1987
Sarah C. Mangefsdorf, Ph.D  Psychology
Paul Mohai, Ph.D., Natural Resources
Elizabeth Nabel, M.D. Internal Medicine July 1, 1987
Gary J. Nabel, Internal Medicine, July 1, 1987
Vaman M. Naik., Ph.D., Physics, UM-Dearborn
Bradford G. Orr, Ph.D., Physics and Applied Physics, July 20, 1987
Michelle D. Perr, Ph.D.% Psychology
Eran Pichersky, Ph.D., Bilogy
Vincent E. Price Ph.D., Communication, August 1, 1987
E. Ramirez-Christensen, Ph.D., Japanese Literature
Peter L. Roberson Ph.D  Radiation Oncology, June 29, 1987
Richard M. Rosenberg, M.M., Music
Patricia A. Rosenmeyer MA., Greek and Latin
Roy T. St. Laurent Ph.., Biostatistics
Gregory L. Skuta, M.D., Ophthalmology, July 1, 1987
Margaret R. Somers, Ph.D., Sociology
Vernon K. Sonak M.D. Surgery, July 1, 1987
Mary F. Sowers, Ph.D., Epidemiology
Linda A. Spriggs M.FA., Dance
Louise K. Stem, Ph.D. Music
Mack C. Stirling M.D  Surgery Jul 1, 1987
Zulema Suarez, M.S.W., Social Work
Steven A. Telian, M.D., Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1987
Dennis J. Thiele, Ph.D., Biological Chemistry, July 16,1987
Charles B. Thomas, Jr., Ph.D., Sociology, UM-Flint
Jindrich Toman, Dr. Phil, Slavic Languages and Literatures
Edward A. Ward, Management, UM-Flnt
Michael J. Wiley Ph.D. Natural Resources
Maria T. Wolff, Ph.D., Romance Languages and Literatures


-47 -



September Meeting, 1987


Instructor
Karen B. Bartscht M.D. Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1987
Ralph B. Blasier, M.D., urgery, July 1, 1987
James B. Chauncey, M.D., nternal Medicine, July 1, 1987
Daryl F. Daugherty M.D., Internal Medicine, Jul 1, 1987
Dale K. Dedrick, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1987
James A. Goulet, M.D., Surgery, August 1, 1987
Mary M. Hamer, M.D., Radiology
Steven R. Hinderer, M.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, August 31, 1987
Henry S. Hsia, M.D Internal Medicine, July 1, 1987
JohnJ. Iacobucci. M.D. Surgery, July 1, 1987
Roy M. Kulick, M.D., Surgery and Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
July 1, 1987 also appointed Lecturer
Kathleen B. Long, M.S., Nursing
John F. Mahoney, M.D Internal Medicine, July 1, 1987
Joel R. Montbrian dM.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1987
Sarah E. Newton, M.S., Nursing
Dana A. Ohl, M.D., Surery, July 1 1987
Michael Parmacek, M.D., rnternal Medicine, July 1, 1987
James M. Scheiman, M.D., Internal Medicine, Jul 1, 1987
Kathryn Stolp-Smith, M.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, August 1, 1987
Raiv Tandon, M.B.B.S. Psychiatry, July 1, 1987
Peter G. Traber M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1 1987
John Wiley, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1987
Judith M. Wismont, M.S., Nursing
Lecturer
Keith D. Aaronson, M.D. Internal Medicine, July 1, 1987
Dennis R. Anderson M.DI., Ophthalmology, July 7, 1987
Richard A. Axtell, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1987
Jocelyne M. Blain, D.EA. Romance Languages and Literatures
Frank J. Boles, A.B.D. Information and Library Studies
Burt I. Bromberg, M.., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1987
Marc D. Brown,M.D., Dermatology, July 1, 1987
Anthony E. Chiodo I.D. PhysicalMedicine and Rehabilitation, July 1, 1987
Brian P. Coppola Ph.D., Chemistry
Walter J. Denk, BA. Germanic Languages and Literatures
Amelia F. Drake, M.D., Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1987
Charles W. Drescher, M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1 1987
Juan C. Esteva, M.S., Business Administration and Computer Information Systems
Nancy K. Florida, MA. Indonesian
Maria V. Gonzalez-Widel, Spanish
Scott R. Hobson, M.D. Ophthalmology, July 7, 1987
Mary M. Hogan, M.S., 'ursing
William J. Holinger A.M., English Language and Literature
Kurt J. Holland,.., Internal Medicie, July 1, 1987
Thomas P. Kennedy M.D., Anesthesiology, July 1, 1987
David J. Leffel, M.D., Dermatology, August 1, 1987
Loren Levy, M.D., Anesthesiology, uly r,1987
Kim A. Lindenmuth M.D., Ophthalmology July 1 1987
Franklin J. Marcus, M.D Anesthesiology, July 1,1987
Cheryl A. Mellor, MA., Romance Languages and Literatures
Joseph M. Messana, M.D., Internal Medicme, Jul 1, 1987
Luis G. Michelsen, M.D Anesthesiology, July 1i 1987
Frank W. Moler, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1987
Thomas P. Murtha, M. Phil., International Business
Bonita D. Neighbors D.D.S., Dentistry Jul 1, 1987
Walter C. Noble, M.., Surgery, July 1, 1987
William Nyitray, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1987
LarryD. Olson, M.D. Neurology, July 3  13987
Kenneth E. Pochinski, MA., Mathematics, Jul 1, 1987
Gail I. Randel, M.D. Anesthesiology, July 1 1987
Steven E. Raper, M., Surer, Jy 20, 197
J. Bernardo Rebeil, M.D., Radiology, August 1,1987
Paul I. Reynolds, M.D., Anesthesiology, July 1, 1987
Stephen J. Rush, D.MA., Music
Daiel P. Ruledge MA., Management UM-Dearborn
Mark Sanz, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1987
William A. Scott, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1987


-48 -



September Meeting, 1987


David L. Smith M.D. Ophthalmology, July 7, 1987
Lynn L. Swan, M.D., Family Practice, August 24, 1987
Sandra K. Tucker, M.S.N., Nursing
Tiziano Vanola, Master, Italian
Visiting Professor
Carl E. Barnes,Jr Ph.D  History of Art
Assem F. Fathy, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering, July 27 1987
Alfred H. Geering, D.MED.DENT., Dentistry, June 15, 1987
Richard O. Lyne,Ph.D., Classical Studies
William Matthews, MA., English Language and Literature
Susan Starr, Diploma, Music
Gunther Teubner, Jur.Ex., Law
David G. Winter, Ph.D., Psychology, July 1, 1987
isitin. Associate Professor
Donald K.Anderson B.Ec., Accounting
Malcolm D. Eckel, Ph.D., Buddhist Studies
James B. Forger, M.Mus. Music, July 1 1987
Judy A. Kennedy Ph.D., Mathematics, July 1, 1987
Robert W. Ryde, Ph.D., History
Neal W. Stoltzfus, Ph.D., Mathematics
Maria C. Thursby, Ph.D., Business Administration, July 1, 1987
Visitin Assistant Professor
Richard G. Anderson, Ph.D. Economics, July 1, 1987
James N. Bodurtha, Jr., Ph.., International Business and Finance
Jon P. Davidson, Ph.D., Geological Sciences, July 1, 1987
William A. Diel, Ed.D., Education
Jimmie L. Reeves, Ph.D. Communication
Stephen M. Zemyan, Ph.D., Mathematics, July 1, 1987
Visitinp Instructor
Carolyn Campbe, MA., Anthropology, UM-Flint
AnneP. Klautsch, B.FA., Theatre and Drama
Charles F. Klemstme, M.S., Accounting
Adiunct Professor
Leland A. Lahr, Ph.D., Corporate Strategy
Adiunct Associate Professor
Bradley R. Bloom, D.A., Music
Om P. Goel, Ph.D., Natural Sciences, UM-Dearborn, July 1, 1987
Anna R. Herzog, Ph.D., Psychology, July 1, 1987
Adiunct Assistant Professor
Charles W. Borgsdorf.. Business Law
Roger S. Newton, Ph. D  Pharmacology, August 1, 1987
Anne W. Goldizen, Ph.i., Anthropology
Gary A. Herion, Ph.D., Studies in Religion
Adjunct Instructor
Mark J. Valacak,M.P.H., Health Care, UM-Flint
Adiunct Lecturer
Shiv K. Arora, M.BA., Management, UM-Flint, July 1,1987
Gail P. Beaver, M.L.S. Information and Library Studies, July 1, 1987
William W. Boggs, M.., Music
Cynthia E. Brelsch, BA., Interdisciplinary Studies at UM-Dearborn, July 1, 1987
Carol A. Feczko, A.B., Interdisciplnary Studies, UM-Dearborn July 1, 1987
Harry A. Handwerger, A.M.L.S. Information and Library Studies, July 1,987
Mary M. Helms, B.S. Physical Therapy, UM-Flint, July 1, 1987
Nora Kalliel MA. NearEastern Stues, July 1, 1987
Elaine J. Laiach,.BA., Management, U-it,    July 1, 1987
Sharon L. Larson, M.BA. Management, UM-Flint, July 1, 1987
Barbara A. MacAdam, A.M.L.S., Communication
Ingrid M. Martin, MA., Management, UM-Flint, July 1. 1987
Julie Olin-Ammentorp, Ph.D.,Enlish Language andLiterature
John W. Rubadeau, Ph.D., English Language and Literature
Shawn A. York, D.D.S., Dentistry, July 6, 1987


-49 -



September Meeting, 1987


Clinical Associate Professor
Neil Massoud, M.BA., Pharmacy, July 1, 1987
Robert W. Spigiel, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, July 1, 1987
Clinical Assistant Professor
Gloria H. Dunn, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, July 1 1987
Steven R. Erickson, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, Juy 1, 1987
Joseph A. Harris, M.D  Pharmacy, July 1, 1987
Gregory P. Schepers, Piarm.D., Pharmacy, August 1, 1987
Clinical Instructor I
Michael A. Baskin, B.S., Pharmacy, August 1, 1987
Judith A. Behn, M.D., Internal Medicie, July 1, 1987
Denise S. Bluhm-Heise, B.S., Pharmacy, August 1, 1987
Christine M. Brettenfeld, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, July 1 1987
Emily A. Diltz, M.D., Internal Medicine July 15, 1987
Michael E. Graney, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases July 1, 1987
Neigatha E. Graney, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1987
Sivana T. Heller, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1 1987
Donald F. Lovelace, B.S., Pharmacy, August 1, 1987
Durinda J. Mattana M.S., Dentistry
Gary I. Mark, B.S. harm., Pharmacy, July 1, 1987
Kathleen S. Pawlicki, B.S Pharmacy, August 1, 1987
Suzette D. Ripepe, M.S. Pharmacy, August 1, 1987
Bernard C. Rost, M.P.H., Pharmacy, August 1, 1987
Philip 0. Van Dyke, B.S., Pharmacy, August 1, 1987
Clinical Instructor II
Anatole Kim M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1987
David Knysak, M.D. Internal Medicine, Jly 1, 1987
John M. Lowenbergh, M.D., Psychiatry, July 1, 1987
Lisa K Von Moll, M.D. Internal Medcine July 1 1987
Timothy J. Watkins, M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecoiogy, July 20, 1987
Ruth Winter, M.D., Anesthesiology, July 1, 1987
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1987, unless othewise indicated
Assistant Professor
Thomas A. Bloom, Theatre, UM-Flint
Mary L. Davis, Psychology, also Adjunct Lecturer of Social Work
Larry M. Gant Social Work
Richard Van Harrison, Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education
Stuart L. Hart, Corporate Strategy
Robert W. Hymes, Psychology, UM-Dearborn
Charles A. Jackson, Theatre and Drama
M.P.Narayanan, Finance
John K Niparko, Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1987
Nancy S. Palchik, Postgraduate Miedicine and Health Professions Education
Evelyn R. Patterson, Accounting
William R. Paulson French
Paul R. Pintrich, Education
Joel F. Platt, Radiology, July 1, 1987
Donald J. Schleicher, Music
Kristen D. Skivington, Management, UM-Flint
Louis Y. Tsui, Industrial andSystems Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Bruce A. Watkins, Sports Management and Communication
Instructor
Thomas D. Spera Radiology July 1, 1987
David J. Steffey, Radiology, July 1, 1987
Lecturer
Antonius J. Broos, Germanic Languages and Literatures
Gladys G. Leithauser, Rhetoric and English Composition
Frances L. Mayes Nursing
Halina Minadeo, SpanishUM-Dearborn
Ray L. Rowland, Management, UM-Flint


-50 -



September Meeting, 1987


Adiunct Professor
Robert D. Caplan, Psychology
Adunct Assistant Professor
Clark D. Cunningham, Law
Clinical Associate Professor
Nabil Khalidi Pharmacy July 1, 1987
Dennis Crowley, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1987
Clinical Instructor
Gary L. Gambill, Surgery, July 1 1987
Brian S. Noa, Surgery, Jly 1, 1987
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Sabbatical Leave
William J. Adams Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Vedat S. Arpaci, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Clifford A. Ball, Assistant Professor of Statistics, for a nine-month period
James A. Bellamy Professor of Arabic Literature, Near Eastern Studies, for a nine-month period
Robert F. Berkhofer, Jr., Professor of History, with tenure, for a nine-month period
S. M. Blinder, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, for a three-month period
Michael H. Bradley, Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure, for a three-month period
Paul H. Bronstein, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Flint for a nine-month period
Deborah C. Brown, Associate Professor of Art History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for a three-month
period
Richmond H. Browne, Professor of Music, with tenure, for a three-month period
Joachim Bruhn, Professor of German and Humanities, with tenure, UM-Dearborn for a three-month
period
Harm Buning, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, for a three-month period
Daniel M. Burns, Jr., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, for a three -month period
J. Robert Cairns, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for a three-month
period
Vincent E. Castagnacci, Professor of Art, with tenure, for a three-month period
Morton Chethik, Clinical Associate Professor of Child Psychoanalysis, with tenure, for a six-month period
Elaine G. Clark, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn for a seven-month period
Thomas L. Coffey, Professor of Sociology/Anthropology with tenure, UM-Flint, for a nine-month period
Barry G. England, Associate Professor of Reproductive Endocrinology, with tenure, for a six-month
perioa
George F. Estabrook, Professor of Botany, with tenure, for a three-month period
Kent V. Flannery, James B. Griffin Distinguished University Professor of Anthropological Archaeology,
with tenure, and Curator of the Museum of Anthropology, for a three-month period
Ilene H. Forsyth, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, Tor a nine-month period
James 0. Froseth, Professor of Music, with tenure, also Lecturer for School of Education, for a
three-month period
Judith E. Heady, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for a seven-month period
Assya K. Humesky, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, for a three-month period
William Ingram, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, for a three-month period
James S. Jackson, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Lawrence W. Jones, Professor of Physics, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Robert W. Keener, Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure, for a nine-month period
William C. Kelly, Professor of Geological Sciences with tenure, for a nine-month period
Donald B. Kersten Professor of Art, with tenure, for a three-month period
Peter Kilham, Professor of Biology, with tenure, for a nine-month period
John W. Kingdon, James Orin Muirfin Professor of Politcal Science, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Diane M. Kirkpatrick, Professor of the History of Art, with tenure, for a three-month period
Jan Kmenta, Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Professor of Statistics, without tenure, for a
nine-month period
Manfred Kochen, Professor of Information Sciences, Psychiatry with tenure, and Professor of Computer
and Information Systems Business Administration for a five-month period
Raoul Kopelman, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Bobbi S. Low, Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, for a three-month period
Thomas L. Markey, Professor of Germanic Lanugages and Literatures, with tenure, for a three-month
period
Richard L. Malvin Professor of Physiology, with tenure, for a six-month period
Evan M. Maurer, Director of the Museum of Art, Professor of History, without tenure, for a six-month
period
Daniel'E. Moerman, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for a seven-month period
Lorraine Nadelman, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, for a nine-month period


-51 -



September Meeting, 1987


Ronald B. Natle, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, for a six-month period
Bruce Oakley, Professor of Biology, with tenure, for a three-month period
Deborah J. Oakley, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, for a three-month period
Sheryl S. Pearson, Associate Professor of English, JM-Dearborn for a three-year period
Philip H. Peters, Associate Professor of Music History, with tenure, for a three-year period
Coimbatore K. Prahalad, Professor of Corporate Strategy, with tenure, for a three-month period
Beverley J. Rathcke, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Johannes W. Schwank, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, for a nine-month
period
Art J. Schwartz, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure for a three-month period
Ingo Seidler, Professor of German, with tenure for a three-month period
George B. Simmons, Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration with tenure, for a nine-month
period
Ruth S. Simmons, Associate Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration Planning and
International Health, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Nicholas Triantafyllidis, Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, for a nine-month
period
ArminW. Troesch, Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure, for a
three-month period
Martha J. Vicinus, Frofessor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Paul W. Webb Professor of Biology, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Hermann F. Weiss, Professor of German, with tenure, for a three-month period
Thomas Weisskopf, Professor of Economics with tenure, for a nine-month period
York-Peng E. Yao, Professor of Physics, with tenure for a three-month period
Paul W. Zitzewitz, Acting Chairman of the Natural Sciences and Professor of Physics, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn, for a three-month period
Du   Off CamDus
Lawrence D. Brown, Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure, also Adjunct
Associate Professor of Politcal Sciences, for a nine-month period
Nicholas F. Delbanco Professor of English, with tenure for a three-month period
Stuart Y. McDougal, arofessor of Engsh Language and Literature, with tenure, for a three-month period
James H. McIntosh, Associate Professor of English with tenure, for a three-month period
Frances K McSparran Associate Professor of English, with tenure, for a three-month period
Thomas F. Storer, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, for a nine-month period
James G. Turner, Associate Professor of Enish, with tenure, for a three-month period
Richard Wrangham Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of biology, without tenure, for a three-month period
Scholarly Activit
David E. Barrett, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Jane E. Burbank, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, for a one-year period
Frederick Cooper, Professor of History, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Julie K Ellison, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature,
with tenure, for a three-month period
Albert Feuerwerker, A.M. and H.P. Bentley Professor of History, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Alice Fulton, William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of English, for a nine-month period
John L. Harer, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, for a nine-year period
Ken K Ito, Assistant Professor of Japanese Lauguage and Literature, for a nine-month period
John R. Kucich, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, for a nine-month
period
Shuen-Fu Lin, Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with tenure, for a three-month period
George I. Mavrodes, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Terrence J. McDonald, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Dale E. Monson, Assistant Professor of Music, for a mnine-month period
Deborah K Shuger Assistant Professor of Enlish Language and Literature, for a nine-month period
J. Mills Thornton, IIi Professor of History, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Aram A. Yengoyan, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Extended Sick
Ralph M. Gibson, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, for a two-monthperiod
Arthur P. Mendel, Professor of History, with tenure, for a one-year period
Aileen B. Sedman, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, for a 6 week period
Retirement Furlough
Bernice F. Blamer, Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint, for a nine-month period
Robert H. Brower, Professor of Japanese Language and Literature, with tenure, for a nine-month period
James I. Crump, Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, for a nine-month period


-52 -



September Meeting, 1987


Horace W. Dewey Professor of Slavic Lanugages and Literatures, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Charles L. Dolph, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Robert B. Harris, Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Thomas Hilbish, Professor of Music, with tenure, also Lecturer in the School of Education for a
nine-month period
William J. Horvath, Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, for a one-year period
Marjorie M. Jackson, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Charles F. Lehmann, Professor of Education, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Vi-Cheng Liu, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure for a nine-month-period
Hsi-Yen Liu. Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, for a one-year
period
Roger C. Lyndon, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Ladlslav Matejka, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literature, with tenure, for a nine-month period
John M. McCollum. Professor of Music, with tenure, for a nine-month period
John W. Reed, Professor of Law, with tenure, for a nine-month period
John Reidy, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, for a tweleve month-period
Constance 0. Rinehart, Professor of Libary Science, with tenure, for a one-year period
Ralph R. Rupp, Professor of Education and Audiology, with tenure, and Professor of Communication for
a three-month period
June Schwertfeger, Professor of Education with tenure, for a nine-month period
Charles B. Sharpe, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science with tenure, for a
nine-month period
Sidney Warschausky, Professor of English Language and Literarure, UM-Dearborn, with tenure, for a
eight-month period
Leave Without Salar
David A. Aschauer, Assistant Professor of Economics, for a nine-month period
Stephen A. Butler, Assistant Professor of Accounting, for a nine-month period
Sylvie J. Carduner, Lecturer in French for a nine-month period
Laurent Clozel, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, for a three-month period
Walter D. Edwards, Assistant Professor of Anthropology, for a mnine-month period
Manuel A. Esteban, Professor of French and Spanish, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for a nine-month
period
Mark H. Falahee, Instructor, Surgery, for a one-year period
Anna M. Feldsteinm, Assistant Professor of Biostatistics, for a three-month period
Louis A. Ferman, Professor of Social Work, without tenure, for a one-year period
Kit Fine Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Gideon Prieder, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, for a nine-month
period
Tanya M. Gallagher, Associate Professor of Education and Speech Pathology, with tenure, for a
three-month period
Jane R. Heirich, Lecturer in Music, for a three-month period
Fred M. Hoppe, Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure for a nine-month period
Brooks B. Hull, Assistant Professor of Economics UM-Dearborn, for a eight-month period
Jaegwon Kim, Roy Wood Sellars Professor of Philosophy, with tenure for a nine-month period
William R. Kminney, Jr. Price Waterhouse Auditiing Professor and Professor of Accounting, with tenure,
for a nine-month period
Phyllis B. Lassner, Lecturer in English Language and Literature, for a nine-month period
Machiko Osawa, Assistant Professor of Economics, UM-Dearborn for a nine-month period
Paul F. Ringseth, T. H. Hildebrant Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics with tenure, for a
nine-month period
Dennis E. Ross Assistant Professor of Law, for a nine-month period
Marc H. Ross, Professor of Physics, with tenure, for a three-month period
Kathryn E. Stecke, Associate Professor of Operations Management, for a three-month period
John H. Stephenson, Professor of Art, with tenure, for a three-month period
Valerie Y. Suslow, Assistant Professor of Business Economics, for a nine-month period
Priscilla Z. Tauss, Assistant Professor of Theatre, UM-Flint, for a nine-month period
Michael T. Taussig, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, for a nine-monthperiod
John D. Taylor Assistant Professor of Management, UM-Dearborn, for a nine-month period
Thomas F. aylor, Music
Kenneth L. Watkin, Associate Professor of Education and Speech Science, with tenure, for a three-month
period
Thelma J. Wells, Nursing, June 30,1987
David C. Wilson, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, UM-Dearborn, for a nine-month period
Maria T. Wolff Assistant Professor of Brazillian Literature, for a nine-month period
Crispin J. Wright, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Martin B. Zimmermani Associate Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, and Associate Professor,
without tenure, for a nine-month period


-53 -



September Meeting, 1987


TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Professor
Donna J. Napoli, Lingistics, August 31,1987
Tony Tripodi, Social Work, also Interim Associate Dean, August 31, 1987
Associate Professor
Earl C. Keller Accounting August 31, 1987
Carole B. LaCampagne, aeat    ics, UM-Flint, May 31, 1987
Essam Mahmoud, Management, UM-Flint, May 31 1987
Alan R. Price Biological Chemistry,also Assistant bean for Research Medical School, July 6, 1987
Ziv Ran. Mathematics, May 3  1987
Gillian Rice, Marketing, UM-F lint, July 31, 1987
Assistant Professor
Jonathan W  T. Aers, Obstetrics and Gynecology, June 30, 1987
Estelle R. Bank, Radiology June 30, 1987
Betty J. Blythe, Social Work, June 30, 1987
Carol A. Brin, Nursing, May 31, 1987
Donald C. Dafoe Surgery, July 31, 1987
Steven Dilsaver Psychiatry, August 21, 1987
Aimo H. J. Hinikanen, Mathematics August 31 1987
Susan E. Jackson, Organizational Behavior and Industrial Relations, June 30, 1987
Pamela J. Johnson Nursing, May 31, 1987
Charles W. Lloyd, Pharmacy July 31, 1987
Patricia J. Magyar, Nursing  ay 31, 1987
Craig M. Morgan, Ophthalmology, August 14, 1987
Marvin Novetsky, Dentistry, September 7 1987
Robert L. Powell Political Science May 1, 1987
Dale L. Rabe Natural Resources, May 31, 1987
Bruce D. Richmond, Radiology August 31, 1987
Daniel D. Richter, Jr., Natural Resources, August 31, 1987
Stephen W. Trenkner, Radiology July 31, 1987
Adrian E. Tschoegl International Business, May 31, 1987
Roberta F. White, Psychology also Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, July 31, 1987
Susan J. White, Radiolog, August 31, 1987
Mark J. Young, InternaMedicme, and Health Services Management and Policy, Public Health, June 30,
1987
Instructor
Cindy L. Grines, Internal Medicine, June 30, 1987
Lecturer
Herbert B. Slade, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 31, 1987
Edward A. Stockton, Anesthesiology, June 30, 1987
Julian M. Thomas, Dermatology, June 30 1987
Karen B. Traber, Anesthesiology, June 3d 1987
Laura A. Yeakel, Chemistry, June 30, 1987
Adiunct Lecturer
George T. Goffas, Dentistry, June 22, 1987
Clinical Assistant Professor
Rodolfo Argueta Internal Medicine, July 31 1987
Eugene Kochkodan, Radiology, March 31, 1987
Robert L. Spicer, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, June 30, 1987
Clinical Instructor
Jerome E. Feldstein, Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 31, 1987


-54 -



September Meeting, 1987


Retirement Memoirs
Vice President Kennedy reported the retirements of four faculty members. The
following retirement memoirs were unanimously approved by the Regents:
Thomas A. Despres, Professor of Mechanical Engineering in the School of
Engineering at The University of Michigan-Dearborn, retired from active faculty
status as of April 30, 1987, after many years of faithful and dedicated service.
Professor Despres received his B.S.E., M.S.E., and Ph.D. degrees, in 1956, 1959,
and 1963, respectively, from The University of Michigan. While pursuing both his
M.S.E. and his Ph.D. degrees, he also worked as a teaching fellow in the Department
of Mechanical Engineering. He was appointed assistant professor at The University of
Michigan-Dearborn in 1963, promoted to associate professor in 1966, and professor in
1970.
Professor Despres organized and taught both graduate and undergraduate
courses in the area of physical metallurgy, mechanical design, and manufacturing
processes, and contributed substantially to our laboratory facilities in these areas. He
worked extensively to establish working relationships between the mechanical
properties of metals and the manufacturing methods used to produce them. His
reputation as a demanding teacher and as an equally understanding person has placed
him in high regard by both undergraduate and graduate students and by his colleagues.
Professor Despres served as Mechanical Engineering Discipline Coordinator, as
program advisor to the Mechanical Engineering undergraduate program, and as a
member of the graduate committee during his years at The University of
Michigan-Dearborn. He is a man of outstanding character and good sense, whose
judgments were used at numerous steps in the implementation and development of
our programs.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator by naming Thomas A.
Despres Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering.
Seong Soo Han, Professor of Dentistry in the School of Dentistry, and Professor
of Anatomy in the Medical School, retired from active faculty status as of September
1, 1987, after a productive 30-year career of research and teaching at The University of
Michigan.
Born in Seoul, Korea, Dr. Han earned his D.D.S. degree from Seoul University
School of Dentistry in 1956. Following a postdoctoral year the the University of
California at San Francisco, he undertook graduate training in the Department of
Anatomy at The University of Michigan, where he received his Ph.D. degree in 1961.
Dr. Han was appointed as a teaching fellow in anatomy in this university in 1957,
assistant professor of dentistry in 1961, and assistant professor of anatomy in 1964. He
was promoted to associate professor of dentistry in 1956, and associate professor of
anatomy in 1968. He was promoted to professor of dentistry in 1970, and professor of
anatomy in 1971. He became a naturalized citizen of the United States in 1972.
Not only has Dr. Han contributed widely to the instructional and research
activities of both the Schools of Dentistry and Medicine, but also to the University at
large. In addition to having been responsible for the training of a number of graduate
students in dentistry and anatomy, he has served as chair of graduate programs in oral
biology and anatomy and directed an interdepartmental program on the biology of
aging. He has organized a number of local and national symposia on topics ranging
from the biology of aging to mechanisms of exocrine secretion, and has served the
International Association for Dental Research in a variety of capacities.
Dr. Han's extensive list of publications includes two textbooks and over 100


-55 -



September Meeting, 1987


scientific papers. While his studies of dental pulp, salivary glands and the
development of the palate are well known to oral biologists, he is also recognized for
his contributions to understanding of the reticuloendothelial system and the immune
response, and to the function of the luteal cell during the ovarian cycle. In recognition
of his research, Dr. Han received the Award for Basic Research in Oral Science from
the International Association for Dental Research in 1969.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming Seong Soo Han Professor Emeritus of Dentistry and of Anatomy.
Erwin M. Rosenstock, Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education in the
School of Public Health, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1987, after a
productive career in teaching and research.
A native of New York, Professor Rosenstock received his B.S. degree in 1946
from City College of New York. He then undertook graduate studies in psychology at
the University of California, Berkley, where he received his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in
1947 and 1949, respectively. In 1951, he joined the United States Public Health
Service (PHS) as a research psychologist, advancing progressively over the next decade
to the positions of Chief of Behavioral Studies and Director of Intramural Studies in
Public Health Practice in the PHS Beurau of State Services.
In 1961, Professor Rosenstock joined The University of Michigan as an Associate
professor in the Department of Community Health Services in the School of Public
Health. He was promoted to professor of public health administration in 1965.
Professor Rosenstock provided leadership in developing the School of Public Health's
research and teaching program in health behavior and health education. He
particpated in the creation of the Department of Health Behavior and Health
Education in 1975, and chaired the department from its inception until 1983.
Professor Rosenstock is best known for being one of the developers of the Health
Belief Model, a theory for explaining health-related behavior. This work has inspired
thousands of fruitful research projects, both in the United States and abroad. He has
served as a consultant to national, state, and local voluntary and professional
organizations. The U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare has
acknowledged Professor Rosenstock's many contributions by awarding him its
Superior Service Award.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by
naming Irwin M. Rosenstock Professor Emeritus of Health Behavior and Health
Education.
Stephen B. Withey, Professor of Psychology and Professor of Communication in
the College of Literature, Science and the Arts, and Research Scientist in the Institute
for Social Research, retired from active faculty status as of September 1, 1987.
Professor Withey received his B.A. degree magna cum laude from Asbury
College in 1941, his M.A. degree from Northwestern University in 1947, and his Ph.D.
degree from The University of Michigan in 1952. He began his 39-year association
with the Institute for Social Research in 1948, when he joined the Survey Research
Center as assistant study director. Over the years, he advanced to study director,
assistant program director, program director, acting director, and director, a position
he held from 1976-81. In 1953 he also joined the faculty of the Psychology
Department as a lecturer. He was promoted to associate professor in 1956 and
professor of psychology in 1961. In 1983 he was given the additional appointment of
professor of communication.
Professor Withey's skills as a survey researcher and social psychologist led to his
interest in a broad range of issues, including attitudes and behaviors of youth,
measurement of adults' sense of life quality, the impact of television, perceptions of
-56 -



September Meeting, 1987


higher education and the consequences of higher education for people who earn
university degrees, public concerns about atomic energy, defense, and war, and
American attitudes about science and scientists. He served as consultant or
committee member for numerous governmental and professional organizations,
including the National Institute of Mental Health, the National Academy of Science,
the National Science Foundation, the Carnegie Corporation, the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace, and the Social Science Research Council.
For almost 30 years, Professor Withey taught with great success and unique
perspective an advanced undergraduate course entitled "Modern Viewpoints in
Psychology". He also taught numerous courses on survey research methodology to
both Umversity of Michigan graduate students and the special students who came
each summer from all over the world to attend the Survey Research Center's Summer
Institute in Survey Research Techniques. In the Department of Communication, he
served as the director of the Ph.D. program.
The Regents now salute this distinguished social scientist and teacher by naming
Stephen B. Withey Research Scientist Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Psychology
and of Communication.
MEMORIALS
Vice President Kennedy reported the deaths of two faculty members. The
Regents unanimously adopted the following memorials:
It is with great sadness that we report the death on August 11, 1987 of Robert M.
Bailey, M.D., Clinical Professor of Surgery, Orthopaedic Surgery.
Bob Bailey joined The University of Michigan as a first-year resident in
Orthopaedic Surgery 45 years ago. His outgoing personality, his love of and empathy
with his patients, his indefatigable skills in the operating room, and his delightful
humor served him well during all these years. There is hardly a position on the faculty
that Bob did not at one time or another fill in an outstanding way. Throughout all
these years and in all these capacities he enjoyed teaching residents on the wards, in
the classrooms, and in the operating theater.
His more than 60 publications have preserved for the future his unique
knowledge and experience with the operative treatment of the spine, the orthopaedic
pathology of hemophilia, osteogenesis imperfecta in children, and injuries to the
shoulder. His book, The Cervical Spine, remains a classic in the area.
During his time at The University of Michigan, Bob was deeply involved in
national orthopaedics, was an officer and took leading roles in nearly every prestigious
orthopaedic organization. He was particularly honored in 1957, when he was selected
as an American, British, and Canadian traveling fellow of the American Orthopaedic
Association of Great Britain. He loved the extended trip to the United Kingdom, and
brought back to us broad perspectives on how patients are treated "across the pond".
Bob's appreciation for this honor was typically expressed by his 14 years of service on
the very ABC Fellowship Committee on the AOA which had selected him earlier. He
simply delighted in being able to make such an experience possible for others.
Bob's cheerful chuckle, his wit, and his presence with us will be missed by all.
We mourn his passing.
The Regents of The University of Michigan are deeply saddened to acknowledge
the untimely death of Robert 0. Goetz, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering and
Assistant Dean for Freshmen in the College of Engineering. A celebration of his life,
in which many family members and friends participated, was held on Sunday, August


-57 -



September Meeting, 1987


9, 1987, at the First Presbyterian Church.
Dean Goetz earned his B.S.E. degree in 1949, and after earning the M.S. degree
in Civil Engineering in 1950, joined the faculty in the Department of Civil
Engineering. He devoted his entire career to research, teaching, and the counseling
and guidance of students during the critical freshman year of their college experience.
His professional area of expertise was in soil mechanics. A versatile, devoted,
and inspired teacher, he taught courses from the beginning level freshman computer
course to an advanced level course in soil mechanics as applied to the design,
construction, and rehabilitation of pavement systems. For many years he worked
closely with the late Professor William Housel, an internationallly recognized expert in
this field. In the late 1960's, his contributions to Professor Donald L. Katz's book,
Engineering Concepts and Perspectives, had a lasting impact on freshman eduction.
Over his many years of teaching, Dean Goetz earned a distinction for being
caring and sensitive to the needs of students, and in 1968 he began devoting a great
deal of his time to formally counseling freshmen. In 1978 he was appointed Assistant
Dean for the Freshman Year, with responsibility for coordinating the college's
freshman counseling program for approximately 1,500 engineering freshmen. The
wisdom and compassion with which he guided thousands of students through those
first important months of college has had a vital impact on the lives of countless young
people, as well as on the programs of the College of Engineering.
Friends and colleagues will remember him as a devoted husband and father,
whose warmth, gentleness, and understanding extended beyond his family to touch the
lives of his friends, his colleagues, and the scores of young men and women who
benefited from his knowledge and guidance.
DEGREES
The Regents approved the final degree list for the May 1987 Law School
commencement. They also approved the following amendments to degree lists:


-58 -



September Meeting, 1987


School ofArt
Bachelor of Fine Arts, May 1987
add:       Maryann Irene Bell, magna cum laude
Brenda Louise Cecelio
Christopher Kennerly Edwards, cum laude
Annette M. Gates, cum laude
Karen Marie Gorton
Carol Marie Grzemkowski
Jeffrey L. Hayner
John Michael Messina
Charles Phillip Reay, Jr.
Anthony David Wessling
Bachelor of Fine Arts, December 1986
add:        Christopher Grandel
Sarah Firth MacMillan
Bachelor of Fine Arts August 1986
add:        Clare Anne Ardizzone, cum laude
Kimberly Dee LaCroiz
Kelly-Ann McQuaid
Jennifer Anna Doolas, cum laude
School of Business Administration
Master of Business Administration May 1987
add:        Kevin Patrick Mulshine, BA. University of South Florida
Bachelor of Business Administration, May 1987
add:       Joshua David Eichenhorn with distinction
Scott David Goldberg, with distinction
Master of Business Administration, August 1984
add:        Charles Frederick Kleber, B.S. Northwestern University
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Rackham
Master of Public Policy, May 1987
add:       William Louise Tatter BA., Wheaton College, Illinois
Philip D. Bateman, B.S., Carnegie-Mellon University
Master of Science Medicinal Chemistry, May, 1987
add:        Claudia Jean Brennan, B.S., State University of New York at Stone Brook
College of Engineering
Master of Science Computer Science and Engineering, May 1987
add:        Cheryl L. Huntington, A.B., Indiana Umversity
School of Education
Master of Arts May 1987
add:        Claudia Peterson Becker, A.B. Michigan State University
Master of Arts August 1979
add:       Katherine Elyse Beck, A.B.
Master of Arts, April 1979
add:        Rodney Emil Koivisto, A.B., Michigan State University
School of Music
Master of Fine Arts in Theatre, May 1987
add:        David John Leugs, A.B., Calvin College
School of Nursing
Master of Science in Parent-Child Nursing, May 1987
add:        Rebecca Lynn Brown, B.S.,Nurs.
Siobban Ruth Gorman, B.S., Nurs.
School of Public Health
Master of Science in Environmental Health Science, May 1987
add:        Theodore Alexander Slawecki, B.S.E. (Comp.E.)
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Master of Arts in Sociology, December 1985
add:        Hector Luis Delgado, A.B., Temple University, ED.M., Rutgers University
Bachelor of Arts, May, 1987
add:        Paul Edward Atchison with High Distinction
Elizabeth Rose Barbour
Felice Bernstein with High Distinction
Thomas Edward Bow
Todd Lloyd Crabtree
Virginia B. Ferrari
Dodd Bryson Fisher


-59 -



September Meeting, 1987


Edward Thomas Hills
Michael Lamont Jaconette
Anne F. Jellema with Highest Honors in History; and Highest Distinction
lain Douglas MacGregor
Adam Jeremy Mansky with Distinction
Laura Anne Mueller
Dickran James Nahikian
Jill Marie VanTine
Gordon Scott Walker
Todd David Watkins
Joseph Anthony West
Correct to show:   Phillip Anthony Hinz with Distinction
Sarah Winterrrowd Medura
Anthony Peter Patti with Distinction
Bachelor of Science, May 1987
add:       Mitchell J. Bednarsh with High Distinction
Beverly Luann Jaskoski with Distinction
Joseph Alan Van Dyke
correct to show:   Daniel Kenneth Prather with High Distinction
Bachelor in General Studies May, 1987
add:       Timothy Sean Naylor
Mark Alan Stelter with Distinction
Bachelor of Arts, August 17, 1984
add:       Bradford Scott Parks
Bachelor of Arts, May 2 1986
add:       Allison Elizabeth Bates
Bachelor of Arts, December 19, 1986
add:       Carmen Denise Johnson
David Crary Lee
Charlene Walker
Joanne Warwick
Bachelor in General Studies, December 19, 1986
add:       Timothy Oran Meister
Residential College
Bachelor of Science, May 1987
add:       Isabel Lynda Venier, Honors in Psychobiology
University of Michigan-Dearbom
College of Arts, Sciences and Letters
Bachelor of Arts
correct to show:   Marey Therese Durella
Ronald William Kotynski with High Distinction
Mary Josephine Suchy, with High bistinction
Bachelor of Science, April 25 1987
add:       Sharyn Elaine Padzieski, with High Distinction
Biran Michael Perry, with High Distinction
University of Michigan-Flint
College o Arts and Sciences
Bachelor of Applied Science, April 30, 1987
delete:    Lawrence Fisette


-60 -



September Meeting, 1987


Annual Report on Investments
Vice President Brinkerhoff submitted the annual report of the University of
Michigan's Endowment and Other Invested Funds and Current, Reserves and Other
Funds for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1987. He stated that the market value of the
endowment funds increased $40.5 million during that time period. $18.8 million of
that increase can be attributed to gifts received as a result of fundraising efforts; the
remaining $21.7 million was due to appreciation in the funds' stock portfolios.
As discussed in the report, Vice President Brinkerhoff noted that the total return
on the endowment fund underperformed the S&P 500 and the anWilshire 5000 Equity
Index. This can be attributed largely to two factors: the University's recent change in
investment management, and the contrast between the he market's recent large
capitalization bias and the University's portfolio, which is structured to take advantage
of the long-term, historic performance advantage of small capitalization over large
capitalization stocks. The goal of 150 basis points above the S&P 500 should be
achieved via the new managers. The Regents will have a better idea of the
performance of individual managers against their peer groups in March 1988, during
the annual review of the investments. Vice President Brnkerhoff explained that it will
take three years before a definitive evaluation of the new investment management
strategy can be undertaken.
Discussion followed regarding the procedures followed by the Wellesley group in
advising the University on investment management strategy. Regent Smith stated her
belief that the Wellesley Group should have informed the Board that performance
would be affected during the transition, and they did not. Vice President Brinkerhoff
explained that the rates changed right at the point that we were making the transition.
Investment Officer Norman Herbert added that we expected certain costs, and the
transition cost us 25 basis points (1/4%). He also noted that performance is largely a
function of the market. Regent Power added that it is necessary to go through one
complete business cycle before being able to evaluate investment strategies.
Regent Roach noted a misprint on page 12 of the report. The amount of total
holdings in S&P 500 stock for the total portfolio should be 63%, not 6.3%.
Base Health/Major Medical Rates for December 1, 1987
Following discussion about the various issues surrounding sharing responsibility
for increasing health care costs, the Regents approved the policy of sharing cost
increases equally with staff members, effective with November payroll deductions.
Timeshare Weeks, Hilton Head Island, South Carolina
The Regents authorized the sale of the University's three unit weeks in Spicebush
at Sea Pines, Hilton Head Island, South Carolina. Any offer at a reasonable price will
be accepted.
Robert Allen Estate - Oil and Gas Lease
The Regents approved the University's entering into an oil and gas lease with
Bryan Exploration for the S/2 Sec. 238, Blk B-2, H&GN, Carson and Gray Counties,
Texas, subject to the tract's being released by Conoco Oil.


-61 -



September Meeting, 1987


Ann Arbor Township Easement
The Regents authorized an easement over the Botanical Gardens and Radrick
Farms Golf Course properties. Regent Roach did not participate in the discussion or
the vote, since he is a partner in the law firm of Dobson, Hammond, Griffin, Roach,
Ziegelman & Sotiroff, which represented Ann Arbor Township in this transaction.
Buhr Building Renovations
The Regents authorized renovations of the Buhr Building to accommodate
present and expanded library functions.
Medical Science I Incinerator
The Regents approved replacement of the Medical Science I incinerator with a
modem, state-of-the-art model at an estimated cost of $400,000.
West Engineering Renovations for School of Information and Library Science
The Regents approved the revised budget for this project, and authorized the
award of contracts to the low bidders. Regent Roach stated that once the School of
Information and Library Science vacates West Quad, he hopes consideration is given
to reverting the building to housing use.
Radiation Oncology Expansion
The Certificate of Need for this project, which provides for the construction of
and equipment for two additional treatment rooms in the Department of Radiation
Oncology at University of Michigan Hospitals, was submitted in May, 1987. In
anticipation of a favorable decision from the Michigan Department of Public Health
in December, 1987, the Regents approved the appointment of Smith, Hinchman &
Grylls Associates as the architect for the Radiation Oncology Expansion Project.
Positron Emission Tomography System
The Regents approved the award of a construction contract for installation of the
PET equipment in the amount of $500,561 to the low bidder, J.C. Beal Construction,
Inc. This amount does not include the cost of the PET equipment itself.
Maternal and Child Health Center Project
The Regents approved a budget increase of $825,867 to the new construction
component of the Maternal and Child Health Center at The University of Michigan
Hospitals. This brings the total for the new construction component budget to
$30,478,962. The Regents also approved the award of construction contracts to
Granger Construction Company for general construction work, John E. Green
Company for Mechanical Work, and C&L Electric, Inc. for electrical work,
recognizing that upon award, the mechanical and electrical contracts will be assigned
to Granger Construction Company.
Regent Roach expressed concern that Detroit-area electrical and mechanical
contractors do not bid in the Ann Arbor market.


-62 -



September Meeting, 1987


Replacement Hospital Project
President Shapiro noted that with the award of this contract for the Maternal and
Child Health Center, the University will have completed all major elements of the
original Replacement Hospital Project.
The University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute
Vice President Wilson reported to the Regents that the UM Transportation
Research Institute (UMTRI), which has been reporting indirectly to the Vice
President for Research as one of the units housed in the Institute of Science and
Technology (IST), will become a free-standing unit reporting directly to the Vice
President for Research. It will have a renewed mission, strengthened linkages with
academic units, an active Executive Committee, and a new Director upon completion
of the current search. She emphasized her feeling that this is the best way to preserve
UMTRI's strong and productive role as a resource to a major segment of the
transportation community, while strengthening its capacity to contribute to research
on future directions in transportation.
In response to question from Regent Nielsen about whether this action will
diffuse UMTRI, Vice President Wilson stated that this realignment will strengthen the
work being done there. Regent Nielsen stressed his belief that UMTRI provides a
significant service to the state and nation, and that he would not at all approve any
action that would lead to its dismantling.
Regent Smith stated that it appears to her that therha th Institute of Science and
Technology is being dismantled without the Regents having an opportunity to act on
the advisability of such an action. Vice President Wilson explained the process
through which IST is being reorganized. She stated that standard procedures are
being followed, and that no attempt is being made to proceed with any actions that
require regental approval without first having obtained it. A discussion then ensued
regardingev the ad strative changes that are being made to UMTRI. Regent Nielsen
expressed his concerns regarding rumors of its being dismantled. President Shapiro
and Provost Duderstadt responded that although the administrative structure is being
changed, the object is to strengthen UMTRI by having it report to the Vice President
for Research, since it receives the bulk of its resources from external sources.
Regent Power suggested that the board be informed of other similar changes that
are being considered down the line, to be used as a "road map" so they would be better
informed of the whole administrative picture. He and Regents Roach and Brown
expressed their support for the administration's conviction that the change in structure
will strengthen UMTRI and reinforce its service mission to people of the state.
Vice President Wilson noted that in order to stay current and strengthen the
organizational structure of other interdisciplinary and public service units, she would
expect to see more frequent changes of this type in the future.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 1988
The Regents approved the following meeting schedule of meetings for 1988:


-63 -



September Meeting, 1987


January 14-15                     July 21-22
February 18-19                    August no meeting
March 17-18                       September 15-16
April 14-15                       October 20-21**
May 19-20*                        November 17-18
June 23-24                        December 15-16
*   Held at UM-Dearborn.
**  Held at UM-Flint.
Commencement Exercises in 1988 will be on Saturday, April 30 and Sunday,
December 18.
Membership in Alliance for Undergraduate Education
The Regents approved an institutional membership in the Alliance for
Undergraduate Education.
Membership in Campus Compact: The Project for Public and Community Service
The Regents approved an institutional membership for the Office of the Vice
President for Student Services in Campus Compact: The Project for Public and
Community Service.
Memberships in the Michigan Dental Association
The Regents approved individual memberships in the Michigan Dental
Association for certain named individual full-time and part-time faculty members in
the Department of Partial Denture of the School of Dentistry.
Recommendations for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
The Regents approved several appointments to the medical staff of University of
Michigan Hospitals.
Center for Performing Arts and Technology
The Regents approved the establishment of the Center for Performing Arts and
Technology within the School of Music.
President's Salary
Regent Brown moved that the President's salary be increased in an amount
equivalent to the increase received by faculty members for the coming year, which
equals 6 1/2 %. Regent Smith seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Cheerleader's Attendance at Away Games
Regent Smith moved that University of Michigan cheerleaders, male and female,
be allowed to accompany the UM football team to away games. Regent Nielsen
supported the motion on the condition that it be amended to include away basketball
games.


-64 -



September Meeting, 1987


President Shapiro reminded the regents of the large number of away basketball
games in the schedule. Regents Smith and Nielsen then clarified their motion to state
that it authorizes the cheerleaders to be able to go to the same away games that they
have in the past.
Regent Roach moved to table this motion until the next meeting, in order to be
able to ascertain what the facts are. This motion passed.
Regent Brown then moved that the female cheerleaders attend, with expenses
paid, the one away game that will occur between this date and the next Regents
Meeting, and that the whole issue be discussed at the next meeting. This motion was
supported by Regent Nielsen. In response to a question from Regent Smith, President
Shapiro stated that the finances for the cheerleaders attending this game will not be a
problem, although he was not knowledgeable about any other issues that may be
involved.
Regent Power asked Regent Brown for clarification as to the operative verb in
his motion: Was it "required", "permitted", or "encouraged"? Regent Brown
responded that the motion should read "encouraged by the President". This motion
carried unanimously. It states "The President should encourage the Athletic
Department to allow the female cheerleaders to attend, with expenses paid, the one
away football game that will occur between September 18 and the next Regents'
Meeting on October 15-16.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will take place at UM-Flint on October 15 and in Ann Arbor on October 16, 1987.
Transportation, accommodation, and other expenses for the months of July and
August, 1987 were $4,563.47.
Richard L. Kennedy, SecretalJ


-65 -



OCTOBER MEETING, 1987


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, October 15, 1987
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Michigan Room of the University Center
Building at The University of Michigan-Flint.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith, Varner, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost
Duderstadt, and Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson were
also present, as were Chancellors Jenkins and Jones.
The first order of business was a report on nonresident enrollment, presented by
Provost Duderstadt.
Nonresident Enrollment Report
Provost Duderstadt stated that this would serve as an interim progress report
until the comprehensive study of policies and experience in the admission and
enrollment of nonresident students that had been requested by the Regents is
completed.
Provost Duderstadt explained that the diversity of the student body brings
far-reaching benefits to the state of Michigan, and that the enrollment mix of resident
and nonresident students must be examined from the perspective of the University's
recent efforts to achieve even greater diversity. The nonresident ratio for The
University of Michigan system in 1986-87 was 26%, a figure that has shown little
variation in recent years. On the Ann Arbor campus, total nonresident enrollment at
all levels is 36%, while undergraduate nonresident enrollment is presently 30%. This
ratio has remained largely unchanged over the years, except during the baby boom
surge in the 1970s, when the increased number of Michigan high school graduates led
to a drop in the nonresident percentage to below 30%. Now that this demographic
surge has passed and the population of high school graduates has decreased, we have
returned to our historical enrollment trend of roughly two-thirds resident, one-third
nonresident enrollment.
While we are now admitting a higher percentage of Michigan high school
graduates than at any time since the 1960s, he continued, the total numbers of resident
applications has leveled off to about 7,400 in the face of a 20% decline in the number
of Michigan high school graduates in the past 10 years. This figure will drop another
22% over the next 5 years, and will have consequences for all Michigan colleges and
Universities. In contrast, last year The University of Michigan received almost 11,500
applications from nonresidents. Even though Michigan residents are given
preferential consideration, it is not surprising that the increase in outstanding
nonresident applicants over the past five years would have led to a shift in the
undergraduate enrollment mix.
Provost Duderstadt emphasized that even though the tuition for nonresident
students basically covers the full costs of their instruction, there was never a plan by
the University to deny admission to Michigan residents in order to capture the larger
-67 -



October Meeting, 1987


tuition revenue paid by nonresidents. However, changing the enrollment mix to admit
additional Michigan residents will require an increase in either state appropriation or
tuition if the quality of education is to remain the same.
Given these facts, and recognizing the impact that any changes in our
admissions procedures will have on other Michigan colleges and universities and the
economy of the state, the University intends to intensify its efforts to recruit and insure
the attendance and retention of outstanding Michigan high school graduates. Coupled
with this is the additional long-term strategy of enlarging the pool of high ability
Michigan students, particularly among underrepresented minorities, through
improvements in the educational preparation of students. Although it is likely that
there will be some shift in the resident/nonresident enrollment mix, the statewide
impact of the 22% decline in the number of Michigan high school graduates that will
occur in the next five years must be carefully considered.
Regent Baker remarked that underfunding from the state legislature over the
past 20 years has contributed to the University's current financial difficulties. He also
pointed out that the University alone can't correct the problems in K-12 education; a
statewide attack is needed.
In response to a question from Regent Varner, Provost Duderstadt stated that
beyond 2 or 3 percentage points, a change in the enrollment mix will impact the
quality of the University in terms of diversity and other measures of excellence.
Regent Nielsen asked about the numbers of foreign students on campus. Provost
Duderstadt responded that there are relatively few foreign undergraduate students;
most of them are in the graduate programs, with the highest numbers being in the
College of Engineering (40% foreign students). As for numbers of students from
alumni families, 15% of nonresident students come from families of at least one UM
alumnus, while 20% of instate students are from alumni families.
The Regents raised the issue of the rejection letter sent out by the Admissions
office, and were told that it has been revised. Regent Roach suggested that Michigan
residents are most concerned with the enrollment mix at the undergraduate level, and
that that is the area where we ought to focus our attention. President Shapiro stated
that the final report on this issue will be completed soon.
1988-89 State Budget Request - Ann Arbor Campus
Provost Duderstadt announced that the FY 1988-89 state budget request of
$50.2 million represents an increase of 11% over the current general fund operating
budget. It includes $9.4 million for fixed costs (staff benefits, supplies, insurance,
utilities new space costs); $13.3 million for a compensation increase of 6%; $2.2
million for minority student recruitment and retention; $4.0 million for laboratory
equipment; $3.0 million for undergraduate student support; $3.0 million for graduate
student support; $2.5 million for faculty salary restoration; $5.0 million for
programmatic initiatives (in undergraduate education and the sciences); $2.0 million
for University libraries; $2.0 million for information technology; and $4.0 million for
deferred maintenance on plant and equipment.
In examining the historical partnership between the people of Michigan and the
University, Provost Duderstadt emphasized that the University views itself as a partner
with state government, as well as with education, business, industry, and labor in
addressing the changing needs of the state as it moves from an industrial-based to a


-68 -



October Meeting, 1987


knowledge-based economy. Michigan's research universities will be the primary
source of the knowledge necessary to build the strength and prosperity of our state. In
response to a question, he said that the quality of the student body depends on the
quality of the public schools and that the economies of the state and the region are
related to each other and to the health of the University: all are interrelated.
Following further discussion, Regent Varner moved to approve the 1988-89
state budget request. Regent Waters seconded the motion, and it was adopted.
1988-89 State Budget Request, UM-Flint
Chancellor Jones presented an incremental state budget request for the
UM-Flint campus of $3.183 million. This includes a compensation program of
$1,370,000, new space costs of $793,000, a non-salary accounts economic program
(supplies, equipment, library acquisitions, and operating materials) of $450,000, and a
program revisions/enhancements category of $570,000. The latter would fund seven
urgently-needed new faculty positions in the sciences and science-based fields as well
as full automation of all library operations and functions via the Integrated Library
System (ILS). As the only public senior college in the Flint area, over 85% of the Flint
Campus' students are from Genesee, Shiawassee, and Lapeer Counties. The Fall,
1987 enrollment of 6,300 represents an increase of 30% since 1980. The UM-Flint has
long been instrumental in the economic and physical revitalization of downtown Flint,
and it serves as an important source of intellectual and cultural enrichment for the
community. It is also exerting increasing leadership in helping to solve area social and
economic problems. The 1988-89 budget request is an attempt to recognize the
campus's increasing impact upon the Flint area, the needs of the community, and the
needs of students.
Following some comments and questions, the Regents approved the 1988-89
UM-Flint budget request.
1988-89 State Budget Request, UM-Dearborn
The incremental state appropriations request for the UM-Dearborn is
$2,895,000. Chancellor Jenkins explained that the number one priority is to improve
the compensation program to enable the Dearborn campus to compete effectively for
quality faculty. $1,485,000 has been requested for this purpose. A 5% increase has
also been requested in the non-salary improvement category, for a total of $255,000.
The remaining amount, $1,155,000, is requested in the general area of "Program
Revision Requests". This includes affirmative action and minority student program
enhancement, new faculty lines in critical areas, upgrading of computer facilities,
instructional equipment, and new space.
Following some discussion of the UM-Dearborn's critical needs, especially in
the area of parity in faculty salaries, the Regents approved the 1988-89 UM-Dearborn
budget request.
Minutes of Meeting of September, 1987
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the minutes of the
meeting of September 17 and 18, 1987 were unanimously approved. Regent Roach
stated that all of the questions he had raised about the various budget categories at
that meeting had been answered to his satisfaction.


-69 -



October Meeting, 1987


Reports
Vice President Brinkerhoff submitted reports on Investment Transactions, Plant
Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations for the month of September,
1987. He also submitted the quarterly Report on Non-Competitive Purchases over
$2,000 from Single Sources, July 1-September 30, 1987. On page 3 of the Investment
Transactions document, he noted that the September 1987 figure for UM Temporary
Investments (Average Yields to Maturity) should be recorded as 8.784. On page 9 of
the Plant Extension Report, he asked the Regents to approve an increase in the
budgets for the Kresge Library & Computer/DME Building and Lorch Hall projects.
These increases reflect changes in the way the costs are reported, and do not represent
actual increases in costs. The Regents unanimously approved these budget increases.
Vice President Johnson submitted the first of a series of reports from the Office
of Student Services. This month's report described the activities of the Career
Planning and Placement Office. The remaining reports, "Summaries of a Selection of
Current Research, October 1987", and "Awards Received-Research and Other
Academic Activities, July 25-August 21, 1987" were submitted by Vice President
Wilson. The Regents unanimously approved receipt of the reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich filed the report of gifts received, listing of gifts of
$5,000 and above, Development and Communication Activity Report, Campaign
Progress Report, and the Campaign Phase II Report for September, 1987.
The Regents received gifts from the following sources, which were accepted with
thanks and in accordance with their terms and conditions:


-70 -



October Meeting, 1987


American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health,
and in the College of Pharmacy                                          112,766
American Chemical Society Washington, D.C.
for research in the Colleges oW Engineering and
Literature, Science and the Arts                                        61,500
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                       7,998
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                      39,250
Arthur Andersen & Company Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                        74,145
Apple Computer, Inc., Cupertino, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts        20,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                                      14,583
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                      16,844
Arthur P. Bartholomew, Jr. Ocean Ridge, Florida
Interstate Bakeries Corporation common stock; for the William
A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business Administration            7,888
John W. Bean Estate
for the John W. Bean Scholarships in the Medical School, and in the
Office of Financial Aid                                                300,000
Carl F. Beaver Estate
for the Catherine Hannah Beaver Endowed Scholarship in the School of Music,
and the Carl Beaver Endowed Scholarship in the Medical School           38,258
Les and Anne Biederman Foundation Inc. Traverse City
pledge payments for support of the College of Engineering and the Medical
School and for the Campaign for Michigan - Replacement Hospital Component  25,000
Bison Books Corporation Armonk, New York
for the Robert H. Bockman/John Whitney Hall Fellowship, and the Preston
W. Slosson Prize Award in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  12,000
F. A. & A. M. Bower Charitable Trust
for the F. Bruce Fralick Ophthalmology Fund in the Medical School       10,000
Bozell, Jacobs, Kenyon and Eckhardt, Inc. Birmingham
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan -
School of Business Administration Component                              5,000
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration     5,000
Brookdale Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                      50,000
Carnegie Corporation, New York, New York
-for conflict and cooperation research in the
Institute for Social Research                                           110,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for research in the School of Social Work                               114,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                      19,969
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit
for the Chrysler Corporation Scholarships in the School of Business
Administration, and in the College of Engineering                        15,500
Helen L. Clark Revocable Trust, Indianapolis, Indiana
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                  32,162
Coopers & Lybrand Foundation, New York, New York
for the Coopers & Lybrand-Norman E. Auerbach
Accounting-Research Fund in the School of Business Administration       25,000
Cray Research Foundation, Minneapolis Minnesota
for mathematics research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  5,000
D'Arcy, Masius, Benton and Bowles, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - School of Business
Administration Component                                                 7,143
William L. Dennis, Brighton
pledge payment or the Judy M. Dennis Endowment in the Medical School     5,000
Charles B. and Charles R. DeVlieg Foundation, Royal
Oak; for the DeVlieg Fellowship and Scholarship in the College of Engineering  30,000
Helen H. Dougherty, Boca Raton, Florida
for unrestricted endowment in the Campaign for Michigan                  5,000
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the Law School                               5,000


-71 -



October Meeting, 1987


Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York
for the Exxon Corporation Fellowship in the School of Business
Administration, and for Employee Matching Gifts                          5,875
Fight for Sight, Baltimore Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                       6,000
Clinton B. Ford Wilton, Connecticut
for the Clinton B. Ford Astronomy Fund in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                    10,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health, and in the Institute
of Public Policy Studies                                                12,171
General Automotive Corporation, Ann Arbor
for support of the Museum of Art                                         10,000
General Electric Company, Carboloy Systems Department,
Detroit; for support of the College of Engineering                       11,250
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
For fellowships and scholarships in the College of Engineering          64,976
Victor Ginsberg, Shelter Island, NewYork
For the Victor and Frances Ginsberg Endowed Scholarship in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts                             10,000
Gary R. Glofzhober, Farmington Hills
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                         15,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
pledge payment For the General Motors Opportunity Scholarship           50,000
Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation New York2 New York
for psychology research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  29,924
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
for the Hewlett-Packard Fellowship and Loan in the
College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts                  9,071
Frederick G. L. Huetwell Detroit
for support of the Medical School, Disabled Student Services,
Shady Trails Camp, and the Frederick G. L. Huetwell Scholarship         31,800
Huron Mountain Wildlife Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Natural Resources                          5,240
International Business Machines Corporation, New Haven Connecticut
for fellowships and other support in the College of Engineering         40,165
International Heart of Variety, Inc.-New York, New York
for the International Heart Surgery Program in the Medical School        7,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Prmceton,New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health                             27,483
Max Kade Foundation, Inc, New York New York
for the Max Kade Fund in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  21,000
Samuel L. Kalush, Saginaw
for faculty support in the Medical School                               25,000
Keeler Fund, Grand Rapids
for mathematics support in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                    20,000
Milton G. Kendrick, Ann Arbor
for the Milton G. and Josephine H. Kendrick Award
in Marketing, School of Business Administration                          5,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh
for the Forney W. Clement Memorial for patient
care activities, The University of Michigan Hospitals                    9,075
Knight Foundation, Akron, Ohio
pledge payment for the Journalists in Residence Endowment
in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts                     250,000
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, New York
for the Samuel H. Kress Foundation Fellowship in the History
of Art College of Literature, Science and the Arts                      14,000
John R. and Margaret L. Laird, Ann Arbor
for computer science support in the College of Engineering               5,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
pledge payments for the Benard L. Maas Foundation Scholarships
in the College of Engineering, and for the Raoul Wallenberg
Scholarship in the College ofArchitecture and Urban Planning            42,500
Mr. and Mrs. Theodore J. Malfon, Boulder, Colorado
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                     5,000


-72 -



October Meeting, 1987


March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains,
New York; for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public
Health, and in the Center for Human Growth and Development              42,250
C. Blake McDowell, Jr., Akron, Ohio
for unrestricted support of the Law School                               8,000
Mildred M. McGormley Trust
for student aid in the College of Engineering                          449,257
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research fund               10,721
Zelpha E. McKinnon Trust, Flint
for special projects at The University of Michigan-Flint               100,000
Michigan Eye Bank and Transplantation Center, Ann Arbor
for the Michigan Eye-Bank Fund, The University of Michigan Hospitals   15,000
Frank C. Mock Estate
for the Mock Family Memorial Scholarship in Physics,
College of Literature Science and the Arts fund                        366,882
Cruse W. and Virginia A. Moss, Ann Arbor
for support of the Medical School and the Museum of Art                 6,000
National Hemophillia Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                      6,250
Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers, New York, New York
for the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers Scholarship
in the College of Engineering                                           14,000
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Chicago,
Illinois; for research in the Medical School                             5,000
Pediatric Research Foundation, Houston Texas
for research in the Medical School                                      15,000
Pittsfield Products, Inc. Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - School of Music Component  10,000
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
For the Procter & Gamble Chemical Engineering
Fellowship in the College of Engineering                                11,200
Therese Remine Estate, Ann Arbor
for the Therese Remine Research Funds in the Medical School            185,238
Rockefeller Foundation, New York New York
for research in the Institute ftor Social Research                      34,700
Rockwell International Corporation Trust, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania; for the Rockwell InternationaIFellowships in the
College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts funds           26,050
Sage Foundation, Detroit
for research in the School of Education                                  7,500
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
For research in the Institute for Social Research                       12,500
Scripps-Howard Foundation Cincinnati, Ohio
for research in the School of Natural Resources                         24,756
Sealed Power Foundation, Muskegon
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - College of Engineering
Component; and for the Museum of Art, and Employee Matching Giftsfunds  25,110
Shell Companies Foundation, Inc., Houston, Texas
for fellowships and faculty support in the Colleges of Engineering
and Literature, Science and the Arts                                   38,075
Siemens Gammasonics Inc., Des Plaines Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                      7,000
Grant and Betty Silverfarb, Lathrup Village
for the Dr. A. H. Grant Rheumatology Scholarship
Endowment in the Medical School                                         10,000
Robert A. Sloan, Farmington Hills
for the Dr. Raymond Waggoner Fund in the Medical School                  6,000
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council Inc., New York, New York
for pathology research in the Medical School                            26,729
Margaret SokoL New York New York
for the Margaret and Herman Sokol Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies                                              10,000
Stone Charitable Foundation, Inc. Wareham, Massachusetts
For the Stephen and Sybil Stone Endowment in the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts                                     10,000
Texaco Inc., Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering     15,000


-73 -



October Meeting, 1987


Harry A. Towsley, Ann Arbor
for the President's fund                                                26,775
Toyota Motor Corporation, Aichi, Japan
pledge payment for the Toyota Visiting Professorship
m the College of Literature, Science and the Arts                      500,000
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Alumni Association fund                         6,000
Vlasic Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan -
College of Engineering Component                                       20,000
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morns Plains, New Jersey
for the Warner-Lambert Distinguished Lectureship
in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts,
and for support of the School of Music                                 20,000
Philip R. Wheeler-Estate
for the Wheeler Family Memorial Funds in the College
of Architecture and Urban Planning, and in the Schools
of Art, Education, Natural Resources and Social Work                    7,444
Arthur Young Foundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                        8,000
Roy H. Ziegler, East Lansing
Quaker Oats Company common stock; for the Roy H. Ziegler
Scholarship in the College of Engineering                              10,450
William E. Zimmie Westlake, Ohio
for naval architecture scholarships in the College of Engineering       5,000
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Ruth A. Brown, Ann Arbor
Three wood bookcases, a typewriter stand, and a collection of psychology books and journals
dating from 1898. for the Department of Pyschology
Ford Motor Company, bearborn
A Rheometer with control panel and associated eguipment;
for the Department of Materials Science and Engineering
Robert R. and Francis M. Gamble, Ann Arbor
The McKinney Family Papers, dated 1776-1902; for the Clements Library
Robert Jillson, Brussels, Belgium
An AMF Alcourt Force Five sailboat with associated equipment; for Camp Michigania


-74 -



October Meeting, 1987


Personnel Actions
The following personnel reports were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on dates indicated
Greg J. Duncan Ph.D., Professor of Economics November 1, 1987
Ellen Weckler, from Assistant to Associate Professor of Music, October 1, 1987
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Herbert C. Barrows, Jr. Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature reappointed to teach
a class in the Coegeof Literature Science and the Arts, Winter term, 1988
Harold Cruse, Professor Emeritus of History and Afro-American and African Studies, reappointed to
teach a class in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts, Winter term, 1988
Joseph Jesse Firebaugh, Professor Emeritus of English, reappointed to teach a class in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts, Winter term, 1988
Otto Graf, Professor Emertius of German, reappointed to teach a cass in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, Winter term, 1988
Herbert W. Johe, Assistant Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Architecture, reappointed to
teach a class in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning, Fall term, 1987
Richard W. Morshead, Professor of Education, with tenure, extended appointment as Dean of the
School of Education UM-Dearborn, for a six-month term, January 1, 988
James R. Prendergast, Professor Emeritus of Art, appointed to teach a ceass in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts, Winter ter term, 1988
Leonard Segel, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, reappointed to
teach a class in the College of Engineering, September, 1987
Gerda M. Seligson Professor Emeritus of Classical Studies, reappointed to teach a class in Classical
Studies, College of Literature, Sciences and the Arts, Fall, 1987 and Winter, 1988
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR
FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective October 1, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
A. Lorrie Betz, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Dieseases, with tenure, Associate Professor
of Neurology, without tenure, also appointed Professor of Surgery, without tenure
John E. Billi, Assistant Professor of InternaMedicine, also appointed Assistant Dean for Clinical
Affairs
Noreen M. Clark, Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, also appointed
Chair of the Department of Health Behavior and Health Education, for a five-year term,
October 19, 1987
Jack R. Lohmann, Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, also
appointed Associate Dean of the College of Engineering, for a five-year term, September 1, 1987
Philip A. Meyers from Professor of Oceanic Science, Atmospheric and Oceanic Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering to Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science and the Arts, November 1, 1987
Robert M. Owen from Professor of Oceanic Science, Atmospheric and Oceanic Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, to Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of
Literature Science and the Arts, November 1,1987
Walter N. Piper, Professor in the Department of Environmental and Industrial Health, with tenure also
appointed Professor in the Department of Pharmacology, without tenure, November 1, 1987
David K::ea from Professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Science with tenure, College of Engineering
to Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature, Science and the Arts,
November 1, 1987
Gene E. Smith, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Assistant Dean for
the College of Engineering, for a two-year term, September 1, 198T
Richard G. Teske, Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, also appointed Interim Director of
McGraw-Hill Observatory, November 1,1987
The following committee appointments were approved.
School of Art Executive Committee
Alfred Hinton, for a three-year term, ending June 30, 1990, vice Allen J. Samuels, term expired
Paul Stewart, or a three-year term, ending June 30 1990 vice Sherril A. Smith, term expired
Alfred Montalvo, for the period ending June 30, 19A8, vice Dwayne Overmyer, resigned


-75 -



October Meeting, 1987


School of Social Work Executive Committee
Mary Van Hook, for the period ending August 31, 1989, vice Betty Blythe, resigned
School ofPublic Health Executive Committee
Roy Penchansky, for the period ending August 31, 1990, vice Lawrence J. Fine, resigned
Edson R. Sunderland Professor of Law. The Regents approved the appointment
of Terrance Sandalow as the Edson R. Sunderland Professor of Law, for a five-year
term, effective September 1, 1987.
Personnel Reports
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Michael Atzmon, Ph.D  Nuclear Engineering
Christoph Borgers, Ph.D., Mathematics
Daniel K. Braun, Ph.D., Internal Medicine and Microbiology and Immunology
Giles J. Brereton, Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Richard A. Campbell Ph.D., Communication
Harriet A. Coellmng Ph.D., Nursing
Cynthia S. Darling-isher, Ph.D., Nursing
Joanna L. Dougherty, M.LANDARCH., Architecture and Urban Planning and Natural Resources
Glen A.B. Fea, Ph.D  Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Thomas C. Foster, Ph.b., English, UM-Flint
Robert Grijalva, M.M. Music, October 1, 1987
Gary D. Hutchins, Ph.D., Internal Medcine
Robert A. Koeppe, Ph.D., Internal Medicine
William Kou, MD., Internal Medicine July 20, 1987
John S. Kuhn, M.FA., Theatre, UM-Flint
John W. Lott Ph.D  Mathematics
Loren T. Niklason, Ph.D., Radiology
Ralf Peek Ph.D  Civil Engineering
Noel C. Perkins, Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Kenneth G. Powell, SC.D., Aerospace Engineering
Alexander J. Ryba, Ph.D., Mathematics
Sona L. SchoePpe, M.D., Radiation Oncology
Hofli A. Semetko, Ph.D., Communication
Instructor
Annette M. Bernard, M.D Internal Medicine, July 1, 1987
Gordon D. Burtch, M.D., Surgery, August 1, 1987
K.D. Campbell-Voytal, M.S.N., Nursing
James A. Levinsohn, MA., Economics
James C. Novak, Ph.D., Pharmacy
Rose A. Utley, M.S., Nursing
Deborah L. Wierzbinski, M.S.N., Nursing
Lecturer
Martha B. Aliaga, Ph.D., Comprehensive Studies
Janet S. Barnfather, M.S.N. Nursing
Edward M. Bowden, M.S., sychology UM-Flint
T. Griffith Foulk, MA. Buddhist Studies
Neil L. Matthews, M.S.D., Dentistry August 26, 1987
Daphna R. Oyserman M.S.W., Psychology
Frederick G. Peters Ph.D. German Literature
Richard J. Ruppel MA. English Language and Literature
Thomas C. Will, Ph.D., Biology
Dana Zakalik, M.D., Internal-Medicine and Surgery, August 1, 1987


-76 -



October Meeting, 1987


Visiting Professor
Charles M. Baxter Ph.D, English Language and Literature
Robert K. Bohn, Ph.D., Chemistry
Kuo-Shuno Chen Ph.D. Mathematics
Richard D. Friedman D. Phil., Law
Vladeta Jankovic Ph.., Comparative Literature
Poul S. Larsen, Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
William G. Marchal.Sc., Operations Management
John A. Muckstadt, Ph.D., Industrial and Operations Engineering
P. V. Ramana Murthy, Ph.D., Physics
Raymond T. Nimmer J.D   Law
Elinor P. Schroeder, J.D., Law
Visitin Associate Professor
ernard Chevreau, Ph.D., Mathematics
Robert S. Hansen, Ph.D  Finance
Jeffrey G. Heath, Ph.D. Linguistics
Donald C. Langevoort.D., Law
Miodrag Perovic, Ph.., Mathematics
Lawrence R. Sullivan, Ph.D. Political Science
Jerry Thursby, Ph.D., Statistics and Economics
VisitinAssistant Professor
Adam-D. HelferD. Phil. Mathematics
Sadayoshi Kojima, Ph.D., Mathematics
L. Peter Lindqvist Ph.D. Mathematics
Sharon A. Lobel, Ph.D., Organizational Behavior and Industrial Relations
Paul A. Richardson Ph.D., inance
Diana M. Steven, Ph.D., Education, UM-Flint
Salim E. Tamari, Ph.D., Sociology
Visiting Lecturer
Terence J. Crooks, Ph.D., Psychology
Adiunct Professor
PhyllisHodes, MA., Education, UM-Dearborn
AdiunctAssistant Professor
Catherine E. Bach, Ph.D., Biology
Heng-Yee Chen Ph.D., Mechamcal Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Robert F. Franklin Jr. Ph.D., Electrica Engineering and Computer Science
Gary L. Miller, Ph.D., Health Care, UM-Flint
Levi T. Thompson, Jr., Ph.D., Chemical Engineering
Adjunct Lecturer
Barbara J. Ad er, MA. Law History and Communiction
Mert N. Aksu, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 24, 1987
Laurice A. Anderson, M.FA., Dance
Thomas C. Andrews, English Language and Literature
Mary M. Austin, B.S. Nursing, UM-Flint
David R. Barton, M.PA., Economics, UM-Flint
Gary J. Baumann, M.BA., Accounting
Rosemary E. Blase, MA., Psychology UM-Flint
Karen A. Briskie M.S.N., Nursing, UM-Flint
Kurt A. Bruder, MA. English, UM-Flint
Mary A. Cardani M.S., Bology, UM-Flint
Walter E. Chapelle, M.S., Electrical and Computer Engineering, UM-Dearborn
James G. Culleton MA., English Composition Board
Nancy Davis M.S.W., Women's Studies Program
Susan I. DesHaais Ph.D., Health and Society, UM-Dearborn
Carl M. Dibble, Ph.D., Political Science UM-Dearborn
Reade W. Doman, MA., English, UM-lint
Eileen R. Dziadosz, M.S. Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Beverly A. Fish, M.L.S. History, UM-Flint
JamesR. Gaver, B.S., English, UM-Flint
Ngawang Gelek, BA., Buddhist Studies
Henry Greenspan, Ph.D., Social Psychology
Carol L. Hogin, B.S Economics, UM-Dearborn
Joseph Israel, MA., Education, UM-Flint


-77 -



October Meeting, 1987


James R. Jones, MARCH., Architecture and Urban Planning
Katherine A. Karl M.BA., Psychology, UM-Flint
Keith B. King, B.S., Resource and Community Sciences, UM-F1int
Paul H. Kinzer, MA. Education, UM-Flint
Nancy Kushigian, Ph.D  English Literature
Jacqueline M. Loiselle, M.S.W., Sociology, UM-Flint
Jonathan L. Marwil, Ph.D., History
Joseph F. McGrath Ph.D., Mathematics
Stanley Mendenhall M.S., Health and Society UM-Dearborn
Susan L. Micklow, D5.D.S Dentistry August 24,1987
Zissimos Mourelatos, Ph.D., Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering
T. Ngoc-Phuong Nguyen, MA. Foreign Languages, UM-Flint
Jarl A. Nischan, MS.W. Social Work
Herbert H. Palmer MA., Education, UM-Flint
Elise K. Parsigian, Ph.D., Communication
Jeanne Paul BA., English Language and Literature
Xiamoeng Qin, B.A., English Language and Literature
Visiting Lecturer
Richard K. Rappleye M.BA., Management UM-Flint
Angela M. Reeves, MA. Psychology,UM-Flint
Jack B. Rice, MA., Physics/Engineering, UM-Flint
Constance J. Samaras, M.FA  Art
Terri L. Sarris, B.S. Communication
Rennie A. Sawade, B.S., Computer Science, UM-Flint
Franklin Serafmo, Jr., MA., English Language and Literature
Whitley A. Setrakian, B.FA., Dance
CeAnn L. Shipley, M.S. Economics UM-Dearborn
Kathleen N. Stacey, MA., Speech, UM-Dearborn
Roger F. Stornant, M.S.E. Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Pal A. VanRaaphorst, D.D.S., Dentistry
Enid J. Zimmerman, MA., American Culture
Clinical Assistant Professor I
Lorenzo A. DiCarloJr., M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1987
William C. Love,, D..S., Dentistry, August 15, 1987
Clinical Instructor I
J. Antonio Bouffard, M.D., Radiology
John E. Brunner, M.D Internal Medicine
Carolyn B. Crowell, D.M.D., Dentistry, September 8 1987
Joseph R. Gasparovic, M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology October 31,1987
Raymond C. Noellert M.D., Family Practice, July 1,1987
Peter J. Rosenbaum, M.D. Anesthesiology
William A. Shortt D.D.S., entistry, August 24, 1987
Philip J. Stella, M.D.i Internal Medicine
Jen-Chyan Wang, B.D.S., Dentistry
Diana M. Rothman, M.D., Family Practice, July 1, 1987
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
James C. Andrews, Radiology
Carol J. Bennett, Surgery
Paula L. Bockenstedt, Internal Medicine
John Bound, Economics
Richard J. Brazee, Natural Resources
Bruno J. Giordanm Psychiatry Medical School, also Adjunct Assistant Professor of Psychology,
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Jeffrey V. Kyff, Anesthesiology
Judith K. Mickelson InternalMedicine
William S. Milberg, Economics
Richard H. Mose ey, Internal Medicine
Claudia Perez-Tamayo, Radiation Oncology
Jai K. Prasad, Surgery
Murray Rebner, Radiology


-78 -



October Meeting, 1987


Patricia L. Robertson, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
David A. Rosen, Anesthesiology and Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Kathleen R. Rosen, Anesthesiology and Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Mindy A. Smith, Family Practice
Iall C. T. Wilton, Anesthesiology
Instructor
Peter V. Loubert, Kinesiology
Carolyn L. Morris, Nursing
Lecturer
Caroln F. Baiducci, Creative Writing
Luis F. Sfeir-Younis, Sociology and Program in American Culture
VisitineAssociate Professor
cott W. Brown, Mathematics
AdjunctAssociate Professor
Michele S. Johns Music
Valdis V. Liepa, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Adiunct Lecturer
Gertrude E. Huntington, Anthropology and Geological Sciences
Clinical Professor I
Fared Khaa, Internal Medicine
Paul A. Kvale, Internal Medicine
Clinical Associate Professor II
James F. Peggs, Family Practice
Clinical Associate Professor I
Mohsin Alam, Internal Medicine
Jan Rival, Internal Medicine
Clinical Assistant Professor II
John M. O'Brien, Family Practice
Clinical Assistant Professor I
Jeffrey J. Colton, Otorhinolaryngology
Robert J. ach    sciat Psyc ry, edical School also Adjunct Assistant Professor of Psychology,
College of terature, cience and the Arts
Howard D. Lerner, Psychiatry
Maria Sawdyk, Internal Medicine
Clinical Instructor II
Lenore Kaplan, Surgery
Anne A. Smid, Radiology
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
Sabbatical
GormanL. Beauchamp, Associate Professor of Humanities, with tenure, Adjunct Associate Professor
of English Language, for a three-month period
F. D. Becchetti, Jr., Professor of Physics, with tenure, for a three-month period
Donald H. Boys, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, UM-Flint, or a three-month period
Morton B. Brown, Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, for a six-month period
Philip D. Gingerich Professor of Biological Sciences, Professor of Anthropology and Curator of the
Museum of Paleontology for a six-month period
Robert E. Johnson Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, for a three-month period
Swatantra K. Kachhal, Chairman and Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, UM-Dearborn,
for a three-month period
Chester R. Leach, Assistant Professor of Humanities, for a three-month period
K. Gerald Marsden, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, for a three-month period
Anita H. Payne, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, and Professor of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, without tenure, for a one-year period
Nallapu N. Reddy Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Flint, for a three-month period
William C. Rounds, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, for a
nine-month period
-79 -



October Meeting, 1987


Raymond W. Ruddon, Jr., Chairman and Professor, Pharmacology, with tenure for a six-month period
Terrance Sandalow, Professor of Law, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Duty Off Campus
Gregory R. Snow, Assistant Professor of Physics for a three-month period
ScholarTV ActiviA
T. Griffith Foulk, Lecturer in Buddhist Studies, for a nine-month period
Richard L. Hall, Assistant Professor of Political Science for a nine-month period
Victor B. Lieberman, Associate Professor of Southeast istory, with tenure, nine-month period
Extended Sick
Robert H. Cojeen, Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, UM-Flint, September 26, 1986
for a three month period
Retirement Furlough
Jon M. Allen, Professor of Biology, with tenure, for a two-year period
John M. Armstrong, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering with tenure, for a one-year period
Luiz V. Boffi, Prossor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn,
for a seven-month period
Robert H. Cojeen, Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, UM-Flint, for a one year period
Stefan S. Fanans Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure July 1,1987 for a one-ear period
Frederick T. Haddock, Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Robert D. Johnson, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, July 1, 1987 for a one-year period
Howard H. Martin, Professor of Communication, with tenure, fr a nine-month period
William L. Root, Professor of Aerospace and Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, for a
three-year period
Leave without Salary
Thomas C. Holt, Professor of History and Afroamerican and African Studies with tenure, for a
nine-month period
Machiko Osawa, Assistant Professor of Economics UM-Dearborn, for a two-week period
Ann M. Walcott, Assistant Professor of Dentistry, for a one-year period
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective August 31, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
Ethan M. Braunstein Radiology, September 30,1987
Marilyn C. Kincaid, Ophthalmology and Pathology
Assistant Professor
Susan M. Gass, Linguistics, May 31 1987
Machiko Osawa Economics, UM-Dearborn, September 15, 1987
Joseph A. Sinkule, Radiation Therapy
Barbara J. Sullivan, Nursing, May 3i, 1987
Instructor
Jeffrey A. Sanfield Internal Medicine and Obstetrics and Gynecology, June 30, 1987
Vikki A. Stefans, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Lecturer
J. Bernardo Rebeil, Radiology, August 1, 1987
Assistant Professor
David B. Bostian, Psychiatry, June 30, 1987
Clinical Instructor
Katherine Andary, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Ellen Bishop, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, June 30, 1987


-80 -



October Meeting, 1987


Retirement Memoirs
Vice President Kennedy reported the retirements of seven faculty members.
The following retirement memoirs were unanimously approved by the Regents:
Richard K. Brown, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
retired from active faculty status as of May 31, 1987.
Professor Brown received his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees from The University
of Michigan in 1940, 1941, and 1952, respectively. He began his career at The
University of Michigan as instructor of Electrical Engineering in 1947. He was
promoted to assistant professor in 1955, and professor in 1958.
Recently, Professor Brown participated in the writing of a book entitled The
History of U.S. Electronic Warfare, in which he gave an account of his activities during
World War II. He was assigned to the United States Army Air Force Antisubmarine
Command as an observer on B-24 Ferret aircraft which flew reconnaissance missions
over China and Indo-China to locate enemy radar development. He received several
awards for his work.
During his career at The University of Michigan, Professor Brown was
responsible for the development and maintenance of the undergraduate program in
acoustics. He was responsible as well for the sophomore level service course in
circuits, which included a laboratory. The experiments that Professor Brown
developed made this one of the department's most successful and popular courses.
The course, in fact, served as a model for the introductory course in the department's
new core program in circuits.
During the sixties, Professor Brown was instrumental in establishing The
University of Michigan Amateur Radio Club. The club's station was located in the
East Engineering Building and club members helped a number of foreign students at
the University communicate directly with relatives at home. In 1967, Professor Brown
received the Eta Kappa Nu Outstanding Teaching Award. He also served the
Department for many years as an outstanding undergraduate counselor.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by
naming Richard K. Brown Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science.
Thomas Dean Clack, Associate Professor of Psychology in the Department of
Otorhinolaryngology, has retired from active faculty status as of August 31, 1987.
A native of Ohio, Professor Clack received his B.A. degree cum laude, and his
M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Connecticut in 1956, 1957, and 1963,
respectively. His professional career began at the University of Connecticut as a
graduate teaching assistant in the Department of Statistics in 1957. He was appointed
as special lecturer in the Department of Psychology in 1959. In 1960, he became a
research associate at the C.W. Shilling Auditory Research Center in Groton,
Connecticut.
Professor Clack came to The University of Michigan in 1964 as assistant
professor of physiological acoustics in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology. In
1965, he joined the Kresge Hearing Research Institute. His energy and enthusiasm
were apparent, and he integrated himself into the investigative milieu at the research
institute. He was named associate professor of psychology in the Department of
Otorhinolaryngology in 1969. He contributed his efforts in many arenas, concentrating
during the last several years primarily on the clinical side of the department, directing
vestibular testing efforts.
The Regents now salute this investigator and clinical health care provider for his
dedicated service by naming Thomas Dean Clack Associate Professor Emeritus of


-81 -



October Meeting, 1987


Psychology in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology.
Paul J. Feldstein, Professor of Health Services Management and Policy in the
School of Public Health, and Professor of Economics in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, has retired from active faculty status as of July 31, 1987.
Professor Feldstein received his B.A. degree at City College of New York, and
his M.B.A. and Ph.D. degrees at the University of Chicago in 1958 and 1961,
respectively. From 1961 to 1964, he was employed as director, division of research at
the American Hospital Association.
In 1964, Professor Feldstein joined the faculty of The University of Michigan as
study director and assistant professor of hospital administration. He was promoted to
associate professor of hospital administration in 1967, with a joint appointment to
associate professor of economics in 1968. He was promoted to professor of hospital
administration in 1971, which was later changed to professor of health services
management and policy, and received a joint appointment to professor of economics
in 1973.
Professor Feldstein has made significant contributions to the literature on the
economics of health care. His research on political economy, health manpower,
hospital costs, regulation and competition, and health care financing has led to his
standing as one of the pre-eminent health care economists in the United States. His
books, most notably Health Care Economics, serve as major texts for undergraduate
and graduate programs in health care administration. Professor Feldstein is a
sought-after speaker and has served as consultant to a broad range of national, state,
and local organizations and agencies.
The Regents now recognize this distinguished scholar by naming Paul J.
Feldstein Professor Emeritus of Health Services Management and Policy and
Professor Emeritus of Economics.
Donald L. Rucknagel, M.D., Professor of Human Genetics and Professor of
Internal Medicine, has retired from active faculty status as of March 31, 1987.
A native of Missouri, Dr. Rucknagel received his A.B. degree in 1950 and his
M.D. degree in 1954 from Washington University. He served his internship and
residency at Duke University before becoming a hematology fellow at the University
of Pittsburgh in 1956-1957. He received his Ph.D. degree at The University of
Michigan in 1965.
Dr. Rucknagel was appointed assistant professor of human Genetics at The
University of Michigan in 1964, was promoted to associate professor of human
genetics with a joint appointment as research associate in internal medicine in 1967,
professor of human genetics in 1970, and a joint appointment as professor of internal
medicine in 1976. He also was a visiting lecturer at The University of Medical
Sciences, Siriraj Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand, in 1966, and visiting professor in the
Department of Pediatrics and the Center for Sickle Cell Disease at Howard University
in 1973-1974. Administratively, at The University of Michigan from July, 1982 to
January, 1987, he ably served as acting chairman of the Department of Human
Genetics.
Dr. Rucknagel has been actively involved in sickle cell anemia research and
treatment since he became a medical doctor. He operated a sickle cell clinic at The
University of Michigan that is affiliated with a federally-funded sickle cell center in
Detroit. His research has been in two basic areas. One is a search for a remedy for
sickle cell anemia by manipulating the production of fetal hemoglobin; red blood cells
containing fetal hemoglobin resist sickling and, therefore, should help improve the
condition of sickle cell sufferers. The other is the development of better and more
practical prenatal diagnosis of the sickle cell condition, to make possible more


-82 -



October Meeting, 1987


effective counseling of prospective parents.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Donald L. Rucknagel Professor Emeritus of Human Genetics and
Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine.
Milton Tamres, Professor of Chemistry in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, retired from active faculty status as of May 31, 1987.
Professor Tamres received his B.A. degree from Brooklyn College in 1943, and
his Ph.D. degree from Northwestern University in 1949. He was appointed instructor
in chemistry at the University of Illinois in 1948, and was promoted to assistant
professor in 1951.
Having established a reputation as an outstanding freshman lecturer at Illinois,
Professor Tamres was brought to The University of Michigan in 1953 as part of a
program to upgrade the teaching of general chemistry. In 1957, he was promoted to
associate professor of chemistry. During his tenure as associate professor, he held a
Guggenheim Fellowship, which enabled him to carry on research and study in Europe
in 1959-1960. In 1963, he was appointed professor of chemistry. Professor Tamres'
exceptional achievement as a member of the faculty has been molding a new and
comprehensive approach to the teaching of general chemistry and demonstrating
excellence in teaching by his own example. Aside from his achievements as a member
of the faculty, he has served the University in diverse ways, some of which include the
Ad Hoc Natural Science Study Committee, the Curriculum Committee and the Pilot
Program Standing Committee.
While at the same time carrying on a vigorous research program, Professor
Tamres devoted himself to service on a broad range of levels. He has earned
international recognition, having been, inter alia, a USAID-NSF consultant for the
Summer Science Institute Programs in India and Tunisia for seven seasons. He was
chairman of the first Gordon Conference on Electron Donor-Acceptor Interactions, a
member of the National Advisory Council on College Chemistry, liaison to the Ann
Arbor and Ypsilanti Schools Science Programs, president of the Michigan College
Chemistry Teachers Association, and president of Phi Lambda Upsilon, the national
honorary society in chemistry. Recognition of his qualities was manifested in the
AMOCO Good Teaching Award, bestowed on him in 1981. His combination of
excellence in teaching, research, and service, in itself outstanding, has always been
accompanied by self-effacing modesty, gentle humanity, and willingness to give himself
fully when students and colleagues have wanted help.
The Regents now salute this gifted and inspiring faculty member by naming
Milton Tamres Professor Emeritus of Chemistry.
Robert C. Taylor, Professor of Chemistry in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, has retired from active faculty status as of May 31, 1987.
A native of Colorado Springs, Professor Taylor received his A.B. degree magna
cum laude from Kalamazoo College in 1941. He received his Ph.D. degree from
Brown University in 1947, where he also served as a National Research Council
predoctoral fellow. His professional experiences include service as a chemist at the
National Research Laboratory at Brown University in 1941, after which he joined the
Manhattan Project as a research chemist from 1942-1946. He joined the faculty of
Brown University as instructor of physical chemistry in 1947, and in 1949, he joined
the Chemistry Department of The University of Michigan, also as an instructor. He
was promoted to assistant professor of chemistry in 1953, associate professor in 1958,
and professor in 1963. He was named acting chairman of the Department of
Chemistry in 1966, and associate chairman in 1967, a position he retained until his
retirement.


-83 -



October Meeting, 1987


Apart from his undergraduate lecturing responsibilities, Professor Taylor
carried out research in infrared and Raman studies of a wide range of chemical
species at a time when the availability of the digital computer enabled an extensive
study of the structure and the force field of molecules. His career has closely
paralleled the growth of the computer, and he has been a source of expertise in the
area for several generations of chemistry students and faculty. His research on the
structure and force fields in boron compounds was seminal in its character. Professor
Taylor was one of the earliest to understand how the computer had completely
revolutionized structural chemistry, and he took advantage of it in his research, his
teaching and in his administrative activities.
As well as providing expert counsel for student organizations in chemistry,
Professor Taylor gave freely of his time to national organizations such as the
American Chemical Society, having been a member of the chemical abstracts
committee and, for more than ten years, a member of and consultant to the copyright
committee. He was an assistant editor for the new ACS publication, Inorganic
Chemistry, when it was launched in the early sixties. He was also a visiting staff
member of the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico from 1975 to 1985.
The Regents now salute this dedicated scientist by naming Robert C. Taylor
Professor Emeritus of Chemistry.
Chung Wu, Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry in the Department of
Internal Medicine, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1987.
Born in Fukien, China, Professor Wu received his B.S. degree in chemistry at
the Fukien Christian University in Foochow, Fukien, China, and his M.S. and Ph.D.
degrees in biological chemistry from The University of Michigan in 1948 and 1952,
respectively. He held the positions of research assistant and Kendall-Hench research
fellow at the Mayo Clinic from 1952-1956. In 1956, he returned to The University of
Michigan and was appointed as an instructor of biochemistry in the Department of
Internal Medicine. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1957 and associate
professor in 1964.
During his career at The University of Michigan, Professor Wu pursued a series
of comprehensive and inciteful studies of the metabolism of neoplasms and of
tumor-bearing hosts. His interest was targeted especially to the mechanisms of
enzyme induction and repression associated with cancer and their modulation by aging
and hormone interactions. His series of papers on hepatic glutamine synthetase in
tumor-bearing rats provide a particularly clear illustration of his meticulous and
scholarly approach. In time, he extended his intellect and laboratory skills to more
generic problems of enzyme induction and its role in ontogeny, aging and oncogenesis.
A collaboration with Professor K.P. Mathews led also to intriguing studies of the
enzymatic generation, in vivo, of drug allergens.
Professor Wu served the University for over 30 years as a respected basic
investigator and teacher. He was acknowledged by students as a patient and dedicated
teacher and, by his peers, as an uncompromising worker. His accessibility as a
resource person was well known, and he shared his intellectual assets willingly and
generously - a model citizen in the "community of scholars". Furthermore, as an
effective student of traditional sinitic culture and a biographer of Chinese
biochemistry, he exemplified the unifying power of the free intellect in the face of
geopolitical division.
The Regents are proud to recognize his dedication and meticulous scholarship
by naming Chung Wu Associate Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry in the
Department of Internal Medicine.


-84 -



October Meeting, 1987


Memorials
Vice President Kennedy reported the death of Wade H. McCree, Lewis M.
Simes Professor of Law. Several of the Regents commented on their feelings of
personal loss as well as the great loss to the University and the community created by
his death. The following memorial was unanimously approved by the Regents:
The Regents of The University of Michigan are deeply saddened to
acknowledge the death of Wade H. McCree, Lewis M. Simes Professor of Law.
Memorial services celebrating his life were held Thursday, September 3, 1987, at the
Unitarian-Universalist Church in Detroit and Friday, September 4, 1987, at the Law
School. Memories of his remarkable career and warm personal life were shared by
countless friends and colleagues, and tributes were sent by many more. Lawyers,
judges of courts at every level of the judicial hierarchy, executive officials including
former President Carter, and other colleagues in the law or life were involved.
Professor McCree began his career in law after earning the A.B. degree in 1941
from Fisk Universiry and his J.D. degree in 1948 from Harvard, an LL.D. from The
University of Michigan, and a Litt.D. from Centre College.
Not many years after beginning the practice of law, Professor McCree was
appointed a judge of the Circuit Court for Wayne County, Michigan, in 1954. He
served in that office until he was appointed United States District Judge in 1961, an
office he held until 1966, when he was appointed to the United States Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. In 1977 he resigned the Court of Appleals position to
accept appointment as the Solicitor General of the United States. He served as
Solicitor General throughout the term of President Carter and continued in office
during the term of President Reagan. In all of these offices Professor McCree served
with the highest distinction.
In 1981 Professor McCree became Lewis M. Simes Professor of Law at the Law
School. His vast and rich experiences in the most important legal positions in our
country thereafter were devoted to teaching his students in Constitutional Litigations,
Trial Practice, Lawyers and Clients, and Constitutional Law for Foreign Students.
Beyond his role as inspiring classroom teacher, he enriched the lives of everyone at the
Law School as colleague to the faculty and counselor to students. He gave generously
of his time, interest, and enthusiasm to all people. All were enriched and uplifted by
his friendship, wise counsel, and personal example.
Professor McCree was part of the generation that brought Black lawyers into
successful participation in all branches of the legal profession. His career and success
as a Black lawyer were a vitally important part of that process, and added to his
unique contributions to the Law School.
Family, friends, colleagues, students, and countless others will deeply miss and
long remember Professor McCree. The University and the Law School have been
fortunate indeed to have had him here, and to have formed an association that will
continue to support our endeavors for years to come.
Degrees
The Regents approved the final degree lists for August, 1987, as well as the
following amendments to degree lists:


-85 -



October Meeting, 1987


Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Rackham
Master of Public Policy, May 1987
add:           Scott Alan Sinder, A.B.
College of Engineering
Master of Science in Engineering, Aerospace Engineering, August, 1987
correct to show: Ahmet Selamei, B.S.(M.E.), Istanbul Technical University Turkey,
M.Sc., ibid.
School of Nursing
Master of Science Parent Child Nursing, August, 1987
delete:        Janice M. Burnett, BA., Wayne State University
College of Literature Science and the Arts
Master of Science Geology, August 1987
add:           Robert David Mead, B.S., University of Washington
School of Natural Resources
Master of Landscape Architecture August, 1987
add:           Neal Jameson Biletdeaux, B.S.
School of Public Health
Master of Science August, 1987, Environmental Health Science
add:           Janet Lynn Hall, A.B.
School of Education
Master of Arts, August 1987
add:           Marian Louise McKinney, B.S., Southern Illinois University, Carbondale
College of Literature. Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, August, 1987
add:           Frank Anthony Carragher
Allison Ma Dawe
Lisa Marie-Hamman
Renee Marie Mitrzyk
Mary J. Murawski
Richard Paul Peterson, II
Diane Barker Price
Bachelor of Science, August 1987
add:           Timothy Joseph Lamb
Ronald Joseph Robinson
Bachelor of Arts, May, 1987
add:           Maryam Dahesh
Blaine Rand Y. Lesnik
Kevin John Lindenmuth with Distinction
Sarah Ellin Siegel; High Honors in Comparative Literature
Bachelor of General Studies May 1987
add:           Ronald Lee Rechter
Bachelor of Arts, August 22 1986
add:           LaTonya Margaret Murray
Bachelor of Arts, December 19, 186
add:           Elmos Roy Woods
Law School
May, 1987
correct to show: George Feldman, Juris Doctor magna cum laude
JamaIJohn Hamood
Patrick Martin McAlinden, Juris Doctor cum laude Michael McFerren
delete:        Robert L. Fischman


-86 -



October Meeting, 1987


Financial Report for Year Ended June 30, 1987
The Regents received the Financial Report for the year ended June 30, 1987
from Vice President Brinkerhoff. A typographical error was noted on page 1: In the
first seeeentence of the seventh paragraph, "On July 10, 1987, formal dedication
ceremonies of MedSport...took place", the date should be changed to July 10, 1986.
Regent Smith also pointed out that on page 2 of the report, the amount of the Kresge
Foundation grant was omitted. She suggested that the text be changed to state "a
Kresge Foundation grant has been offered in the form of a $2.5 million challenge to the
University"....
Schedule of Investments for Year Ended June 30, 1987
The Regents next received the Schedule of Investments for the year ended June
30, 1987.
Common Fund for South Africa Free Equity Investments
Vice President Brinkerhoff submitted the June 30, 1987 inventory of the
Common Fund for South Africa Free Equity Investments. The University's shares in
the fund were valued at $41,846,194 on that date. He noted that we are in the process
of transferring a portion of our holdings in this fund to Ariel, to the limit approved by
the Board. Regent Roach asked what the standard of this fund is in determining
whether companies are "South Africa-free". Vice President Brinkerhoff stated that the
standard is "has operations in"; if a firm has had operations in South Africa, but has
disinvested its holdings, it would be on this list.
UM Hospitals Semi-Annual Accounts Receivable Report
President Shapiro noted that while we have been making progress in decreasing
the total accounts receivable, there is still some way to go in markedly improving the
situation. The current situation can be attributed to the lag in third party payments
and the increased documentation required by third party payers. Vice President
Brinkerhoff remarked that implementation of the new IBM billing system, which will
allow automated transmission of claims, should lead to a further decrease in total
receivables.
Estate of Helen F. Weber Real Estate
This recommendation to sell 200 acres in Menominee County, Michigan at a
price of $103.50 per acre was tabled, pending further information regarding its
appraised value.
Proposed Agreement Between the University and a Small Business Owned by a
University Employee (RLW)
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement between the University and Professor Roger L.
Wright, who has developed a computer program known as Model-Based Statistical
Sampling (MBSS). Under the terms of this agreement, the University will assign its
joint ownership interest in the intellectual property developed by Professor Wright to
him, d/b/a Roger L. Wright & Associates (RLW), in return for royalties and the
commitment to use best efforts to make the product available to the public. The


-87 -



October Meeting, 1987


following information is provided in compliance with requirements of the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute:
i.  Parties to the contract will be RLW and The University of Michigan.
ii.  Terms of the contract include: a duration in perpetuity, unless
terminated for breach and financial consideration of 10% royalty to
the University of net sales revenues received by RLW.
If the program is licensed to a third party distributor who performs
substantially all of the marketing functions, the University will receive
15% of gross license fees in lieu of the royalty set forth above.
No facilities or services of the University are involved and no
assignment of University employes working on University time is
required for fulfillment of the contract.
iii. Should RLW successfully commercialize MBSS, Professor Wright's
pecuniary interest will arise through RLW receiving revenues from
sale of products or from sublicensing agreements and the University's
pecuniary interest will arise through the receipt of royalties set forth
above.
Dow Building/G.G. Brown Connector Structure
The Regents approved revising the budget for this project from a pre-bid
amount of $4,750,000 to a new total of $4,900,000. They also authorized award of the
contract to the low bidder, Spence Brothers, of Saginaw, Michigan. The motion was
made by Regent Brown and seconded by Regent Waters.
North Ingalls Building Renovations for the School of Nursing
The Regents authorized proceeding with renovations of the 400 North Ingalls
Building at an estimated cost of $3,500,000. This will allow housing the entire School
of Nursing in a single location.
Transportation Research Institute Chiller Replacement, Hatcher Library Cooling
Tower Replacement, Pharmacy Research Building VAV Conversion
The Regents approved proceeding with these projects, as described.
UM Hospitals Medical Professional Building
This project calls for renovating the former Finance and Personnel Building
(now the Medical Professional Building) to house University Hospital Administration
and Ambulatory Care Administration. It will also temporarily house
Mott/Women's/Holden Administration and OB/GYN Administration until the
Maternal and Child Health Center project is completed. Following some discussion
about possible alternative means for housing administrative functions on the medical
campus, Regent Baker moved and Regent Power seconded a motion to approve the
Medical Professional Building project, the issuance of construction documents for
bids, and the award of a construction contract, providing the bids are below the budget
of $1,000,000. The motion passed unanimously.


-88 -



October Meeting, 1987


UM Hospitals Continuous Batch Washer for University Hospitals Laundry Service
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved submission of an application for a $486,250.00 Certificate of
Need from the Michigan Department of Public Health for the purchase of a
continuous batch washer for the University of Michigan Hospitals Laundry.
UM Hospitals Installation of an Uninterruptible Power System
Regent Power moved and Regent Smith seconded a motion to approve
submission of an application for a $660,000 Certificate of Need from the Michigan
Department of Public Health for the installation of an uninterruptible power system
for the University Hospital, and an uninterruptible power system for the A. Alfred
Taubman Health Care Center. The motion carried unanimously.
Cheerleaders' Attendance at Away Games
A motion that had been tabled at the September 1987 meeting was reintroduced
at this time. This motion urged that "cheerleaders be able to go to the same away
games that they have in the past". President Shapiro stated that the Athletic
Department has decided that it will continue to send a 3-male, 3-female coed squad to
all of the remaining away football games this season. He also reminded the Regents
that all of our practices must be consistent with Big Ten Conference rules. In
response to a question from Regent Nielsen, Vice President Kennedy stated that Big
Ten Rules preclude sending cheerleading squads to away Conference basketball
games. President Shapiro emphasized that one reason for this type of rule is to try to
keep down expenses.
Several other questions were raised by the Regents about rules relating to pom
pom squads, dance lines, and marching band. Regent Roach stressed that it is
important to allow equal participation by both men and women in all of these
activities. Regent Nielsen moved to table the motion again until the next meeting,
pending a full investigation of all of the issues involved. Regent Power seconded the
motion, and it was adopted.
Public Comments
The Regents heard public comments from the following individuals, on the
topics indicated: Juanita Holland, on behalf of Catherine Frederick, President of the
Flint Alumni Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta, on "Programming at the University".
John Rasmussen, Alumnus, on the University's policy re Visiting Scholars.
Institute of Science and Technology (IST)
Vice President Wilson stated that she was withdrawing item #3 on the Regents
Communication that called for "the dismantling of the IST umbrella administrative
structure". Items 1 and 2, "transfer of selected units to homes within schools and
colleges", and "reorganization of the Office of the Vice President for Research
(OVPR) so as to create two foci of activities..." were presented as described in the
Agenda material and background material distributed separately.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Vice President Wilson described
when the transfer of certain individual units that had recently been a part of IST had


-89 -



October Meeting, 1987


taken place. The Sea Grant was transferred to the College of Engineering in July
1987. The Office of International Peace and Security was transferred to the Institute
for Social Research in early spring of this year. At the beginning of this year, the
Ultrasmall Structures Research Program was funded by an external agency in two
major grants and absorbed into the Applied Physics Program, where the faculty reside
who are undertaking those activities. This had been a seed project, she explained,
which when it matured, flourished within the schools and colleges. There was no
formal transfer, since it was a "seed" activity within the Special Projects Division of IST
and not a formal unit. It was reported to the Regents that UMTRI was to become a
free standing unit reporting directly to the Vice President for Research at the
September 1987 Regents meeting.
Regent Baker stated that he still did not understand the proposal, and that the
notion of maintaining IST in some form, perhaps not as an interdisciplinary group,
should be examined. Regent Power moved passage of items 1 and 2 of the request.
Regent Roach seconded the motion. Regent Baker moved to amend this motion to
continue IST in some form, as he had described it. Regent Power and President
Shapiro said that that would be accomplished by Regent Power's motion. Regent
Smith seconded Regent Baker's motion, and asked who would be the Director of IST.
Vice President Wilson responded that the Regents had approved Ronald Olsen as the
Acting Director at the last Regents' meeting. Regent Smith asked whether he would
continue, and Vice President Wilson stated that he would. When asked whether he
would become the permanent director, Vice President Wilson responded that that
would be a regental action item that she would not be bringing to the Regents at this
time.
Regent Power commented on his personal connections with IST, first as a
student when it was created, then as a member of the Governor's Commission on
Economic Development. In the latter capacity, he studied how the service capabilities
of research universities can be summoned to best benefit the citizens of the state.
There are two parts to the proposal under consideration, he continued: a)
interdisciplinary research activities, some of which the administration proposes to
move to the schools and colleges, and b) certain University obligations for service to
the citizens of the state. There was, he suggested, no serious concern about the first.
The question is, how ought those service obligations best be addressed
organizationally. He suggested that the long-term design criteria should be (a) to
serve as a central information source, providing guidance and access to facilities and
services for people outside the University; and (b) to have the capacity to summon the
range of the University's service components on behalf of the state. It is not clear, he
continued, how to achieve these objectives administratively. By accomplishing the first
two objectives in this action request and not dismantling IST, the IST umbrella would
remain as a concrete example of the University's commitment to the state during the
more comprehensive discussions on the University's public service role.
Regent Roach noted that it is the function of the executive officers to decide
what administrative structure will best accomplish the task. He believes that the
system will work as set out, and that the management function is not up to the
Regents. He believes that each function of 1ST will be performed better and more
efficiently with Vice President Wilson's proposals than at present. Regent Baker
stated that the Regents set University policy, and that this was a policy matter to be
acted upon by the Regents. He said that he was seeking a commitment that the
concept of 1ST will continue.


-90 -



October Meeting, 1987


President Shapiro stated that this proposal enables the University to change a
bureaucracy that is not serving present needs. He continued that the proposal before
the Regents would enable the University to accomplish the goals favored by Regent
Baker, and that it would not be appropriate to artificially prop up an organization
which is not meeting our objectives. He felt that it would be appropriate to implement
items one and two, retain the IST umbrella administrative structure, and then build on
that.
There was further discussion about the need for the Regents to consider the
overall policy of the University regarding public service objectives, not just in IST, but
in the institution as a whole. President Shapiro emphasized that the final structure to
emerge may be different from the present one, and it may include other aspects of the
university; it is a major function of the University. The solution to the problem will
involve many initiatives.
Regent Power clarified his motion to read as follows:
The Regents authorize, as recommended in the October 1987 Action
Request by the Vice President for Research, the transfer of selected units of
IST to locations within schools and colleges, and that the Office of the Vice
President for Research be reorganized so as to create two foci, one for
interdisciplinary research activities and the other for economic and industrial
development activities. In addition, the Regents request that the Executive
Officers bring to the Regents an overall policy discussion setting forth the
University's overall objectives regarding service activities of all types at the
University for the state and its people.
Regent Nielsen supported that motion. Regent Baker agreed to withdraw his
amendment, with the understanding of the Regents that Regent Power's restated
motion, while general in nature, specifically retains the IST umbrella organization for
the present. Further, the policy discussion called for in the new motion will clarify the
role of IST in accomplishing the University's objectives of service to the people of
Michigan. Regent Baker then withdrew his amendment with the permission of Regent
Smith, who withdrew her second of Regent Baker's amendment.
Regent Nielsen stated that he agreed with the realignment of IST, but expressed
his concern that the Regents had been unaware of some of the transfers that had been
made out of IST. He would like to see flow charts or schematics showing how the
Office of the Vice President for Research is organized to be able to administer all of
its activities and what its plans are for the next few years. President Shapiro stated
that this would be provided.
Regent Power noted the growth in the volume of research, both in percentages
and dollar amounts, since Vice President Wilson has assumed her duties.
President Shapiro called for the vote on Regent Power's motion. It carried
unanimously.
Public Comments
The Regents then heard remarks from State Senator Joseph Conroy regarding
the instate/outstate enrollment issue.


-91 -



October Meeting, 1987


President Shapiro next asked Chancellor Jones to update the Regents on the
status of planning for the new Flint Campus Library.
Flint Campus Library
Chancellor Jones stated that of the $15,000,000 required for this project,
approximately half has already been raised through private donations. The Regents'
approval is requested to proceed with architectural drawings and facilitate further
fundraising efforts. President Shapiro praised Chancellor Jones' efforts at building
community support and funding for this project. University Planner Fred Mayer gave
an overview of the project, which was to be continued the following day.
The meeting was then recessed to meet at 9:00 AM the next day in Ann Arbor.
Friday, October 16, 1987
The Regents met at 9:00 AM.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith, Varner, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice
Presidents Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson were also present, as were
Chancellors Jenkins and Jones. Associate Vice President Holbrook represented
Provost Duderstadt, who was absent.
President Shapiro welcomed President Fleming, who was attending the
meeting.
External Auditor's Report
Vice President Brinkerhoff introduced Paul Geiger, of the auditing firm of
Ernst & Whinney, to present the Management Letter and Responses. Mr. Geiger
reviewed the points brought up in the management letter, and said he is satisfied by
the process that has been undertaken by staff to respond to the letter.
Mr. Geiger then introduced Harold Miller, who was in charge of audits of UM
Hospitals, MCare, and Medical Service Plan procedures. Mr. Miller discussed
specific recommendations for improvements that came out of his review. These are
documented in the Management Letter.
Mr. Tom Barrow, of Barrow and Aldrich, expressed thanks to the University
for providing his minority firm the opportunity to participate in the audit, and stated
that the experience had been very positive.
Regent Baker noted that the Regents were available to meet privately with the
auditors if they felt it necessary.
Discussion ensued about the effects of new tax laws on annual giving.
Although all agreed that the decrease in marginal tax rates will have an impact,
President Shapiro emphasized that if the laws have the net effect on the overall
economy that is predicted, it will benefit all of us.


-92 -



October Meeting, 1987


Regent Power inquired about the level of accounts receivable at UM Hospitals.
The auditor responded that management is well aware of the high level of
receivables, and is working to reduce them. Installation of the new patient account
management system should help them in that effort. Vice President Brinkerhoff
stated that this system should be up and running by July 1, 1988.
Recommendations for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
The Regents approved several appointments to medical staff membership.
Ann Arbor Township Sanitary Sewer Easement
Regent Waters moved that authority be granted to execute a permanent
sanitary sewer easement a and a temporary construction easement over the Radrick
Farm property owned by the University, as described. Regent Brown seconded the
motion, and it was adopted. The installation of the sanitary sewer will enable the
University to connect Radrick Farm facilities to the sewer when its installation
becomes necessary. Neither Regents Roach nor Baker participated in the discussion
or vote on this item. Regent Roach is a member of the law firm that represented
Ann Arbor Township in its negotiations with the University; Regent Baker once
consulted with the previous owner of the property, although he has no current
interest in it.
Business School Renovations
Regent Power moved to approve renovations of the second floor of the original
1947 Business School building, to accommodate recent growth in the activities of the
Placement Office and the External Relations and Development Office. Regent
Varner seconded the motion, and it was adopted.
Estate of Helen F. Weber Real Estate
This item was reintroduced, after having been tabled the day before. Vice
President Brinkerhoff stated that the property values noted in the action request
represent recently updated appraisals. Regent Roach moved to accept the offer of
$22,500 cash submitted by Edward Pach to purchase 200 acres in Section 34, T41N,
R25W, Harris Township, Menominee County, subject to the University's reservation
of the mineral rights and a 6% commission to be paid to Edward Locke. Regent
Varner seconded the motion, and it was adopted.
CESF Report, UM-Ann Arbor
President Shapiro introduced Professor Jesse E. Gordon, Chair of the
Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty (CESF), to present this
committee's report to the Regents.
After describing characteristics of the academic labor market, Professor
Gordon discussed two models of faculty organization: collective bargaining, and
consultative negotiations, the latter of which pertains to The University of Michigan.
He then described five current and potential areas for consultative negotiations. The
first of these is health care, where the issues are long-term care insurance, wellness
programs, benefit reimbursement accounts, health care cost containment, and
University contributions to health insurance. Faculty participation in decisions


-93 -



October Meeting, 1987


regarding the latter issue is seen as especially problematic.
Two o ther areas where theres a need for consultative negotiations are
broadening of retirement options, including counseling/information availability, and
more flexible fringe benefits, such as tuition assistance, flexible benefits, housing
assistance (especially for new faculty), child care, and standardized maternity leave
programs. He also mentioned the problems of some retired faculty members whose
retirement incomes are not sufficient to meet their living expenses.
The merit review procedure is another area of concern, especially as it impacts
minority and women faculty. The final issue is faculty compensation, where the
primary concern involves race and gender equity, but where there are also perceived
to be large intra-unit and inter-unit differentials. These are in conflict with the
faculty's overall perception of itself as reflecting "diversity within commonality".
In conclusion, Professor Gordon stated that many faculty feel that the
outcomes of their efforts to improve matters related to the economic status of the
faculty are often not very fruitful. He suggested that if we cannot improve the way
the game is played, perhaps we will have to change to a different game. Faculty are
seeking answers to the question, "How can we improve the way the game is played?"
Several of the Regents asked Professor Gordon about specific points he had
raised with regard to insufficient retirement incomes for current retirees, housing for
new faculty, maternity benefits, and faculty compensation. Regents Roach and Baker
emphasized that the total amount of funds available for compensation is determined
by the legislature and the people of the state. Regent Power noted that the higherhi
education inflation rate is double that of the consumer price index, and people
wonder why that's the case.
PIRGIM
Regent Baker then read the following prepared statement:
The Ann Arbor News in its Ocotober 12, 1987 edition reported
that the Public Interest Group in Michigan (PIRGIM) ran..."a
campaign last spring to "Save PIRGIM" while concealing that the
organization had a $73,000 surplus and collected $600,000 from
canvassing last year."
During the last year PIRGIM undertook an elaborate and
expensive petition drive and referendum election on the University
campus which resulted in the Regents' voting to allow PIRGIM to be
funded by the University students on a "negative checkoff' basis. That
Regental action may be challenged by some se tudents in the federal
courts as unconstitutional.
PIRGIM's principal theme during the petition drive and election
was "Save PIRGIM", because PIRGIM would have to leave the
campus if it did not receive funding from the students. At the same
time PIRGIM is said to have raised more than $600,000, according to
a report prepared by John Bhushan, former PIRGIM fundraiser and
former president of the Michigan College Democrats. Bhushan is
quoted in the Ann Arbor News article as saying "People in the


-94 -



October Meeting, 1987


community are being outright deceived".
PIRGIM program director Andrew Buchsbaum is also quoted as
saying, "PIRGIM received about $111,000 of the $600,000 collected
for canvassing money, which the group will use for paying staff
salaries, office expenses and debts.... Of the remaining canvass
money, 37% was used to pay canvassers and the rest was used to
cover the high costs of runnign three canvass drives in Ann Arbor,
Kalamazoo and East Lansing". Apparently $222,000 went to pay
commissions for student canvassers. Student representative George
Davis is quoted as saying, "I think his (Bhushan's) report has called
into question PIRGIM's integrity in its campaign...."
Michigan law carefully regulates fundraising activities in the state.
Fundraisers must be licensed, reports filed and disclosures made.
Serious questions remain unanswered regarding PIRGIM's activities
in fundraising, reporting, and use of funds collected. Did PIRGIM's
fundraising activities comply with state law? Were PIRGIM's
fundraisers licensed? Were PIRGIM's fundraisers paid on a
commission basis? Does Michigan law allow payment of fundraisers
on a commission basis? Were any such funds used to pay PIRGIM's
staff? Did PIRGIM's paid staff work in the petition drive and student
election? Were any such funds used to finance the election process?
Were all PIRGIM's fundraising activities properly and accurately
reported?
These and many other questions must be answered by the
University Counsel. A student organization that raises $600,000
independently is no ordinary student organization; it is big
business perhaps too big to be classed as a student organization. (In
1986-87, the income ofMSA was $358,000, while PIRGIM raised
$600,000.)
Mr. President, I respectfully request that you direct the
University's legal counsel to fully investigate these and all other
appropriate questions so that the Regents, the University, and the
people of the state can have complete information in this matter. I
further request that no funds be disbursed by the University to
PIRGIM from student accounts until counsel's report has been
received and discussed by the Regents.
Regent Roach stated that he feels this issue is a matter for student government
to take up, and that the Regents "should give them a chance to solve the problem
without us doing it for them". He said that the student government is currently making
a serious effort to handle the problem.
Regent Brown agreed that the Regents shouldn't get involved in all of the
organizations that receive appropriations from the student government. Regent
Varner agreed that it is better to let MSA handle it, as the Regents have already
discussed.
Regent Baker stated that he would continue to raise these issues; he believes
the Regents should exercise oversight. Regent Roach asked Regent Baker to present
-95 -



October Meeting, 1987


his suggestion as a motion at the next meeting if his intention was for the Regents to
take formal action.
Motion to Meet in Executive Session
Regent Roach then made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on October 16, 1987 ten minutes after the recess of this public
meeting, in the President's Conference Room for the purpose of considering
material exempt from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of
Information Act. Such exempt material consists of a written opinion from
the Board's legal counsel.
Regent Nielsen supported the motion, and it carried unanimously.
Litter on Campus
Regent Roach next raised an issue brought up in a letter the Regents had
received from an alumnus about the condition of the campus. He quoted the
following excerpt from the letter:... We could not believe what had happened to the Diag. To put it bluntly,
the place looked like a large garbage dump. There was litter everywhere.
Trash barrels had been tipped over with their contents strewn all about.
There were food wrappers, fast food sacks, soft drink glasses, and a variety of
other junk lying on the sidewalks and on the grass. There were political and
entertainment leaflets glued to the sidewalk, and yards and yards of masking
tape stuck to the walkways extending all of the way from the Undergraduate
Library to Mason Hall.
Regent Roach stated that he shared the view of the correspondent, and
suggested that perhaps the student government and various other student
organizations might work together to help instill pride in the appearance of the
campus. President Shapiro said that Provost Duderstadt and Vice President Johnson
were already in the process of implementing such a plan, and expressed the
administration's concern about this situation. He remarked that hundreds of
thousands of dollars has already been spent just on removing graffiti alone.
Flint Campus Library
Chancellor Jones then reintroduced the plans for the Flint Campus Library, by
stating that there was consensus and enthusiasm for the design in the Flint community.
University Planner Fred Mayer displayed a scale model and showed architectural
drawings that described details of the design. Regent Baker expressed dismay that the
model had been built and presented to the community before the Regents had had a
chance to view it. He stated that his reaction to the plans was not wholly positive; he
doesn't feel that it fits in with the rest of the campus. He also was concerned about
the exterior screen wall that is supposed to allow views of the grounds but block the
rays of the sun, as well as the color of the brick and the spire on top of the building.
President Shapiro suggested that the architect review the spire and the exposure


-96 -



October Meeting, 1987


issue, with the understanding that fundraising can continue as design plans are revised.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned, to reconvene on
November 19 and 20, 1987. Transportation, accommodation, and other expenses for
October 1987 totaled $1988.13.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secret


-97 -



NOVEMBER MEETING, 1987


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, November 19, 1987
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith, Varner, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy and Vice
Presidents Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson were also present, as were
Chancellors Jenkins and Jones. Associate Vice President Holbrook attended the
meeting for Provost Duderstadt, who was absent. Interim President-Elect Fleming
was also present.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order, and announced that the annual
presentation by the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs (SACUA)
would be the first order of business.
SACUA Presentation
Professor N. Harris McClamroch, Chair of SACUA, introduced his SACUA i 
colleagues: Professor Charles E. Olson, Jr., Associate Professor Beth Glover Reed,
Professor R. Thomas Lenaghan, Wendy Pradt Lougee, Professor William 0. Dobbins,
III, Professor Philip M. Margolis, Patricia B. Yocum, and Professor Edward
Chudacoff. Professor McClamroch described the three aspects of faculty members'
role as teaching, research, and service, but said there is debate on how to balance
activities in each area. Faculty members view their external service role as being
limited by several constraints, including a University reward structure which is
perceived not to value service, an overemphasis on funded research, the fragmentation
of the academic disciplines, and inadequate communication mechanisms between the
University and society.
To give the Regents an idea of what faculty members do, SACUA members
Margolis, Yokum, Olson, and Lanaghan each gave brief descriptions of their work at
the University. In response to a comment by Regent Power about how the
University's emphasis on excellence in research, service, and teaching might be related
to the incentive system, Professor McClamroch said that there is a perception among
the faculty that service is not as valued as are the other aspects of faculty's role.
Regent Varner asked whether funded research is more rewarded than nonfunded
research. Professor McClamroch explained that obtaining the resources necessary to
carry out research, especially in the natural sciences, takes time away both from doing
the research itself and from other areas of faculty responsibility. Faculty are not so
much discouraged from doing external service as encouraged to do other activities.
Regent Roach suggested exploring the possibility of creating an award to recognize
faculty who perform outstanding service. President Shapiro pointed out that another
dimension of the service issue is service that responds to faculty members' agenda, as
opposed to service that responds to the external University agenda.
Following further discussion, Professor Reed continued the SACUA
presentation by describing efforts that have been undertaken by the faculty to enhance
racial and cultural diversity at the University. She said that the question of how to


-99 -



November Meeting, 1987


incorporate a multicultural understanding into the definition of excellence in
scholarship and the central values of the University needs to be addressed, and not just
relegated to the area of service. Without the support of the Regents and executive
officers, she continued, many faculty will not believe that work towards more
multicultural scholarship, curriculum, and teaching will have a positive impact on their
careers.
Noting that there are no minority members of SACUA, Regent Varner
suggested that perhaps the election process could be structured so as to ensure
minority representation. Professor Reed responded that many minority faculty
members feel their time would be better spent in other ways. Regents Power and
Roach remarked that the Board has allocated substantial resources to deal with the
issues raised by Professor Reed, and that some of the initiative as to how to use these
resources to achieve the goals she enumerated had to come from the faculty.
Annual Report on Research
Following a brief recess, Vice President Wilson presented her annual research
report. She began by enumerating some of the specific research currently being
undertaken by some minority faculty members. She then went on to describe the
robustness of the research portfolio, both in terms of its breadth and in terms of
overall dollar amounts. In 1987, the University received 50 "mega-awards" of over
$400,000 each. Of these, 16 were new awards, 9 were competing renewals, and the
remainder were noncompeting renewals (awards of previously committed support for
continuing programs). Some of these "mega-awards" probably reflect a new trend
toward multi-year proposals and awards for larger teams of investigators.
Regarding the new Regents policy on research grants that was approved in
April, 1987, Vice President Wilson said that although its implementation has
proceeded smoothly, the Research Policies Committee has continued to express its
disagreement with the Regents' policy itself. The Committee's specific objections to
the Research Policy are documented in the Appendix to the Research Report.
Regent Roach asked how the $36 million in University funds for research are
allocated. He also asked whether it is possible to track proposals that have been
rejected due to the implementation of the new research policy, as this would be a
means of discovering if the guidelines have a dampening effect on research. Vice
President Wilson that this would be difficult to do, in that there is currently no means
for tracking proposals of that type.
Following a recess, the Regents returned to the regular agenda items.
Minutes of Meeting of October, 1987
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of October 15-16, 1987.
Reports
Investments. Vice President Brinkerhoff stated that the Reports on Investment
Transactions and the University Endowment Fund Quarterly Inventory as of
September 30, 1987 do not reflect the drop in the market that occurred on October 19.
At that time, the University's investment portfolio dropped from $291 million to $247


-100 -



November Meeting, 1987


million, which is equivalent to its value of December, 1986. Regent Baker questioned
whether the new investment management strategy is giving away too much control
over the investments to others. He noted that the approximate $56 million loss was
the net loss to the University. The fixed income portfolio rose as the equity portfolio
declined. However, the net loss was $56 million.
Regent Baker noted that in January 1987, the Regents directed the
administration to maintain 70% of the University's investments in equities and 30% in
fixed income investments. The administration directed the individual equity
investment managers to maintain about 70% of their investment in equities within a
10% range; that is, no less than 60% and no more than 80% of the funds were to be
invested in equities. No change of investment policy was transmitted to the
investment managers, and to his knowledge no manager requested a change in policy
in the face of deteriorating economic factors that influenced the stock market during
July, August, September, and early October of 1987. He mentioned a report in the
Chronicle of Higher Education on October 28, 1987, stating that other important funds,
including those of Harvard, Texas, and Miami Universities as well as the Ford
Foundation, recognized weakness developing in the stock market and reduced their
equity positions to the 40/50% range. Harvard, for example, had reduced its equity
position from 70% to below 50% in the months prior to the stock market collapse.
Those institutions which reduced their equity positions lost less than The
University of Michigan in the market collapse, he continued. Had Michigan reduced
its equity position from 70% to 40%, the loss would have been approximately $28
million dollars. The annual income from $28 million might be as much as $3 million.
Regent Baker requested that the matter be carefully reviewed and reported t o the
Regents.
Regent Roach commented that the Regents made the decision to stick with a
disciplined approach, and that the Regents can't make day-by-day investment
decisions. Regent Smith noted that the decision to put 70% of the money into equity
managers and 30% into fixed income managers provided some leeway. Vice President
Brinkerhoff confirmed that the Board elected a choice within a range of 60/40 to
80/20. Regent Baker noted that the previous investment manager, the National Bank
of Detroit, had met periodically with the Regents during the year to review the
investment policy and to make recommendations concerning the equity/fixed income
ratios for their review. It may be wise to have the University's investment advisor
meet with the Board periodically. Following further discussion, President Shapiro
proposed that Vice President Brinkerhoff set up a discussion between the Regents and
the investment managers regarding their recent actions, recommendations, and
strategies.
Other Reports. Vice President Brinkerhoff also submitted the Plant Extension
and the Personnel-Labor Relations Reports. Vice President Wilson filed the
Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and the report on Awards
Received-Research and Other Academic Activities.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted the Report of Gifts Received, the Listing of
Gifts of $5,000 and Above, the Development and Communication Activity Report, and
Campaign Progress Report, and the Campaign Phase II Report for October, 1987.
The Regents received gifts from the following sources, which were accepted with
thanks and in accordance with their terms and conditions:
-101 -



November Meeting, 1987


Allied Corporation Foundation, Morristown, New Jersey
for research in the College of Engineering, and in the
School of Public Health                                                  7,000
American Cancer Society, Inc.,     New York, New York
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health,
and in the College of Pharmacy                                          88,183
American Cyanamid Company, Wayne, New Jersey
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration,
and for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                     5,425
American Express Foundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                         5,600
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                     123,063
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School, and the Division of Physical Education  105,422
American Lung Association New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                       9,500
Ameritrust Company, Cleveland, Ohio
for the George H. Deuble Student Loan Fund in the School
of Business Administration                                               5,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for fellowships and scholarships in the College of Engineering, geology
support in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts,
and for Employee Matching Gifts funds                                    17,860
Jean Greig Amos Estate
Dow Chemical Company common stock; for unrestricted support
of the School of Education                                               9,621
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for reseach in the Medical School                                        15,417
AT&T Foundation. New York, New York
for fellowships and other support in the College of Engineering          13,600
Atlantic Richfield Company Los Angeles, California
for support     of the College of Engineering, in honor of James L. Skinner  5,000
Bankers National Life Insurance Company, Parsippany, New Jersey
for the Ralph R. Loundsbury Memorial Scholarship in Economics,
College of Literature, Science and the Arts                             20,000
BASF Corporation, Chemicals Division, Parsippany, New Jersey
for the Campaign for Michigan - Chemical Sciences Facilities Component fund  20,000
Mabel Glayds Bean Estate
for unrestricted support of the School of Education                      9,172
Virginia G. Belt Toledo, Ohio
General Electric common stock; for the William Belt Memorial in the Law School  5,140
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for unrestricted support of the Law School                               5,000
Ben Paul Brasley Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for alumni scholarships in the Law School                               25,000
Robert P. Briggs Elk Rapids
for theWilliam A.-Paton Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration, and pledge payment for unrestricted support of the
campaign for Michigan                                                    6,000
Prof. and Mrs. Van A. Burd, Cortland, New York
for the Margaret Anne Burd Memorial Scholarship,
The University of Michigan-Flint fund                                    10,000
Leo Burns Trust
for scholarship in the Department of Athletics fund                      5,387
Century Supply Corporation, Madison Heights
for support of the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane                        5,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                      13,716
Chrysler Coporation Fund, Detroit
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - School of
Business Administration Component                                       25,000
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Cook Family Foundation Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                        10,000
Willard M. Cornelius, Jr. Estate
for the Department of Athletics, the Schools of Law and Music, and
the College of Literature Science and the Arts                          75,000
Council for Tobacco Research-U.S.A., Inc., New York
New York; for pathology research in the Medical School                   17,500


-102 -



November Meeting, 1987


Louise E. Cuyler, Carmel, California
for the Louise E. Cuyler Fund in the School of Music                     5,648
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                      23,166
Albert C. Dames Estate
for the Albert C. Dames Memorial Scholarship fund                        5,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                       6,250
George H. Deuble Foundation, Canton Ohio
for the George H. Deuble Foundation Fellowship in the Law School         5,000
Dobson McOmber Agency, Inc. Ann Arbor
for the Risk Managemnt Professorship in the School of Business Administration  5,000
J. McGregor and Christine Dodds, Grosse Pointe Farms
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Law School                5,000
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
ledge payment for the Thomas S. Monaghan Visiting Professorship in the
College of Architecture and Urban Planning                              15,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for scholarships, fellowships, and other support in the College of Engineering  21,500
Dow Chemical U.SA. Midland
for support of the College of Engineering                               14,000
William H. Edwards, Beverly Hills, California
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                          14,000
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York
for the Exxon Education Foundation Materials Science Fellowship in the
College of Engineering                                                  15,000
Drusilla Farwell Foundation, Detroit
for the Drusilla Farwell Foundation Endowment in the Medical School      5,000
First National Bank of Chicago Foundation, Chicago,
Illinois; for EmployeeMatching Gifts fund                                7,525
Robert B. Fiske, Jr., New York, New York
for support of the Law School                                           13,225
Ford Motor Company, Ypsilanti
for scholarships in the College of Engineering                           7,000
Ford Motor Company, Milan
for scholarships in the College of Engineering                           6,500
Samuel & Jean Frankel Foundation, Bloomnield Hills
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - School of Business
Administration Component                                                 10,000
Harry L. Freeman, Chevy Chase Maryland
pledge payment for the I.L. Sharfman Economics Fellowship in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts                              5,000
Frey Foundation, Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                          15,000
Carl A. Gerstacker, Midland
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                   5,000
Roy R. Gettel Estate
for neurology support in Medical School                                 23,860
Leon Greenspan, New Rochelle New York
for pediatric research and training in the Medical School               25,000
Grumman Aircraft Systems, Bethpage New York
for the Robotics Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  15,000
Arthur W. Hill Foundation, Hillsdale
for unrestricted support of the Medical School                           5,000
Hazel Lee Hughes Estate
for the James A. and Hazel L. Hughes Scholarship in the College of Engineering  800,000
International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, New York, New'York
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - School of Business
Administration Component                                                 10,000
Johnson Controls Foundation, Milwaukee Wisconson
for the Paul W. McCracken Collegiate Professorship in the School of
Business Administration                                                  8,500
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health               73,216
Kean Manufacturing Corporation, Dearborn
for fieldroom renovations at the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane         30,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning           17,566
Kenny-Michigan Rehabilitation Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                       7,042


-103 -



November Meeting, 1987


Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh
for the Forne W. Clement Memorial for patient care activities, The
University of Michigan Hospitals                                         9,075
Knight-Ridder Newspapers Inc., Miami, Florida
pledge payment for the Jounalists in Residence Endowment in the College of
Literature Science and the Arts                                         83,334
Andrew J. Krapoh, Jackson
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan-Replacement Hospital Project  6,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                      23,705
Judd D. Malkin, Chicago, Illinois
pledge paymentfor the Real Estate Professorship in the School of Business
Admnistration                                                            5,000
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Armenian Studies Program at The University of Michigan-Dearborn  5,000
McDonnell Douglas Foundation, Saint Louis, Missouri
for the McDonnell Douglas Scholarship in the College of Engineering,
and for the Campaign for Michigan - College of Engineering Component    26,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research fund                5,319
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association of the
United States, Inc., Detroit; for highway safety research in the
Institute of Science and Technology                                    205,562
National Bank of Detroit, Detroit
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - School of Business
Administration Component, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund           25,300
National Dairy Promotion and Research Board, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the Medical School                                      27,799
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                       8,788
Pew Memorial Trust, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the School of Dentistry                                 22,000
Price Waterhouse Foundation, New York, New York
pledge payment for the Price Waterhouse Auditing Professorship in the
chool of Business Administration, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund  30,350
Proctor & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Procter & Gamble Funds in the School of Business
Administration, the College of Engineering, the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, and the President's Office; and for
Employee Matching Gifts funds                                           57,450
Quaker Oats Foundation,Chicago, Illinois
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - School of Business
Administration Component, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund           21,050
Retirement Research Foundation, Park Ridge, Illinois
for research in the School of Social Work                                5,000
Mrs. Lyle C. Roll, Scottsdale, Arizona
Merck & Company common stock; for research and education in the
Medical School                                                          52,969
Schering Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for support of the College of Pharmacy                                   15,500
Schlumberger Foundation, Sugar Land, Texas
for the Schlumberger Foundation Collegiate Scholarship in the
College of Engineering                                                   15,000
Fred E. Shaw Trust
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                   11,098
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for the Shell Oil Company Funds in the Colleges of Engineering and
Literature, Science and the Arts, and pledge payment for the Campaign
for Michigan - Geological Sciences Component funds                      100,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena, California
for the swimming and diving facility in the Department of Athletics,
and for marching band equipment in the School of Music                  35,000
Sonoco Products Company, Hartsville, South Carolina
for the Ergonomics Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering     20,000
Everette J. Soop Irrevocable Trust
for the Schools of Education, Graduate Studies and Nursing, and
for the Athletic Department, Bentley Library, Celements Library,
Extension Service, Museum of Art, Michigan Media, University Annuitants
Association, and University Musical Society                             229,885


-104 -



November Meeting, 1987


Standard Oil Company, Cleveland Ohio
for support of the School of Business Administration                     5,000
State Bar of Michigan, Lansing
pledge payment for theInstitute of Continuing Legal Education fund      16,667
Steelcase Foundation, Grand Rapids
pledge payment for the Steelcase Endowed Research Professorship in
Humanities, College of Literature, Science and the Arts                100,000
Helmut F. Stern, Ann Arbor
for the Helmut Stern Fund in the Museum of Art                          14,000
Stroh Brewery Company, Detroit
for unrestricted support of the Law School, and pledge payment for
the Campaign for Michigan - School of Business Admimstration
Component fund                                                          10,250
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, AA.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the
Northern Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts;
for the Scottish Rites Research Funds in the Medical School             6,182
Margaret Dow Towsley, Ann Arbor
Dow Chemical Company common stock; for the Campaign for Michigan
- Chemical Science Component fund                                      983,750
Joy G. Ungerleider Philanthropic Fund, Larchmont New York
for religious studies support in the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts                                                            5,000
Unisys Corporation, Detroit
for the ENIAC Computer Fund in the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts                                                            25,000
Mrs. Alexander S. Vida, Bradbury, California
for the Alexander S. Vida, M.D. Memorial Endowment in the Medical School  25,000
Walbridge Aldinger Company, Livonia
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - School of Business
Administration Component fund                                            5,000
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the Universiry Musical Society fund                                 5,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for the Campaign for Michigan - College of Engineering Component,
and for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                   40,450
World Society Foundation, Zurich, Switzerland
for poltical science research in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                            5,195
Dr. and Mrs. Clyde Wu, Grosse Pointe Park -
for the Helen Wu Graduate Fellowship in the School of Music             50,000
Griffith J. Young Estate
for alumm scholarships in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning  100,000
Zenkel Foundation, New York, New York
pledge payments for the Lois and Bruce Zenkel Faculty Research Fund,
the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance, and for
other support in the School of Business Administration                  25,000
The following nonmonetary, gifts in kind were received:
John C. Dann, Dexter
a collection of books and other materials relating to American college history; for the Clements
Library
Janet Lvon  olm, Waterford
the Phelps-Lyon Papers, dated 1803 to 1881; for the Clements Library
Sarah Handy Mallon, Rochester
a portrait of Moses P. Handy (1847-98) by Hubert Vos; for the Clements Library
James V. McConnell, Ann Arbor
An Olivetti Classic copy machine; for the Department of Psychology
Yvonne M. Nelson, Flint
a collection of books, for The University of Michigan-Flint Library
Newport Corportion, Fountain Valley, California
an isolated optical table; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Godfrey Dorr Stobbe Estate
160 acres of real property known as the West half of the Southeast quarter and the South half of
the Northeast quarter of Section 16, Township 37 North, Readmond Township, Emmet County,
Michigan; for the Godfrey Dorr Stobbe Professorship in Pathology in the Medical School


-105 -



November Meeting, 1987


Personnel Actions
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR AND ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective December 1, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
William L. Fink, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology
David J. Smith, Jr., M.D., Associate Professor of Surgery
Karl E. Weick, Ph.D., Professor of Organizational Behavior and Industrial Relations, with tenure, also
Rensis Likert Collegiate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Psychology School of
Business Administration and Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College ot Literature,
Science and the Arts, January 1, 1988
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR AND INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on date indicated
Harry B. Benford, Professor Emeritus of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, appointed to
continue to develop teaching support video tapes for the Department of NavafArchitecture
and Marine Engineering, September 1 1987
William C. Morse, Professsor Emeritus of Education and of Psychology, reappointed to teach a class
in the School of Education, October 12, 1987
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR
FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Frank E. Filisko, Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, appointed Acting Director
Macromolecular Research Center, September 1, 1987
Robert W. Gray, Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, with tenure and Direcrtor of the
Institute of Environmental and Industrial Health, also appointed Chair of the Department of
Environmental and Industrial Health for a two-year term, December 1, 1987
James E. Gruber Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, appointed Associate Dean of
Academic Affairs for the Division of Interisciplinary Studies, UM-Dearborn, January 1, 1988
Gary S. Was, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, also appoited Associate
Professor of Materials Science Engineering, without tenure, November, 1987
LEAVES OF ABSENCES FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Yeheskel Hansenfeld Professor of Social Work, extension of leave of absence from
January 1, 1988 to December 31, 1988
Anthony C.Woo Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure,
from September 1, 1987 to August 31, 1989
The following committee appointments were approved:
Committee on Military Officer Education Programs
Shaw Livermore, for the period ending June 30, 1988, vice Larry D. Nooden, resigned
Board in Control of Student Publications
Barbara MacAdam, for the period ending May 31, 1990, vice Charles Eisendrath, term expired
Hubert Cohen, for the period ending May 31, 1990, vice Richard Price, term expired
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Arthur Coxford, for the period ending May 31, 1988, vice James S. Jackson, resigned
School of Management Executive Committee. UM-Dearbom
Gary R. Waissi, for the period ending August 31, 1990, vice Herman Teeke, term expired
Citizens Advisory Committee. UM-Flint
Willard Hertz, to succeed himself for a four-year term, for the period ending August 31, 1991


-106 -



November Meeting, 1987


Rensis Likert Collegiate Professorship. The Regents approved the establishment
of the Rensis Likert Collegiate Professorship in Organizational Behavior and
Psychology in the School of Business Administration.
Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in Honors. The Regents approved the
appointment of Jerry A. Weisbach as the Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in
Honors for the Winter term, 1988.
Assistant Dean for the Freshman and Sophomore Years. The Regents approved
the establishment of the position of Assistant Dean for the Freshmen and Sophomore
Years in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, effective January 1, 1988.
In response to a question by Regent Power, Associate Vice President Holbrook
explained that collegiate professorships are allocated to the schools and colleges, as
opposed to endowed and distinguished university professorships, which are allocated
across the entire University.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following Personnel Reports:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Santosh G. Abraham, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
John T. Clarke, Ph.D., Atmospheric and Oceanic Science, November 1, 1987
William H. Herman, M.D., Internal Medicine, Obstetrics and Gynecology, October 1, 1987
Sridhar Kota, Ph.D. Mechanical E eerng  and Applied Mechanics
Pinaki Mazumder, h.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Setember 28, S1987
Geneva M. Omann Ph.D  Surgery andBiological Chemistry, October 15, 987
Atul C. Pande, M.D., Psychiatry
Penny F. Pierce, M.S.N., Nursing
Neil t. Shepard, Ph.D Otorhinolaryngology, October 19, 1987
Deepak Sherlekar, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Instructor
Gail Fromes, Ph.D., Nursing
William Kincaid, MD., Internal Medicine, August 1, 1987
Nancy L. Kostin, M.S.N., Nursing
Lecturer
Mihael I. Casher, M.D. Psychology
Michael B. Hann, M... Residential College, also Adjunct Lecturer in the School of Art
Carol E. Holden, Ph.D., Psychology
Janice C. Humphreys M.S. Nurs,, September 21, 1987
Edith K. Livesay, Ph.b., English Language and Literature
Susan M. Miller, Ph.D  Biological Chemistry
Carole L. Reed, M.S.M.E., Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Visiting Professor
Joseph 0. Akinmusuru, Ph.D., King/Chavez/Parks Professor of Civil Engineering
Arnold S. Franks, D.D.S. Dentistry, October 19, 1987
John D. Kalbfleisch, Ph.i., Biostatistics
Ramaswamy Radhakrishnan, Ph.D., Biostatistics
Klaus W. Schaide Ph.D., Psychology
Enzheng Tong, P.D., Anthropology also Visiting Curator of the Museum of Anthropology, Ph.D.,
Arnold J. J. Upmeyer, Ph.D  Psychology
Sherry L. Willis, Ph.D., Psychology


-107 -



November Meeting, 1987


isitineAssociate Professor
S-Lain Liu, Ph.D., History of Art
isitineAssistant Professor
Kee S.Nabm, Ph.D. Chemical Engineering
VisitineLecturer
Israel Lewinstein, Ph.D., Dentistry, August 17, 1987
AdiunctProfessor
FrederickN. Harper, MA., Education
Howard Young, MA., Mathematics
Adiunct Associate Professor
James A. Bristol, Ph.D., Pharmacy, July 1, 1987
Kenneth N. Brostrom, MA., Slavic Languages and Literatures
Kay G. Sellheim, B.S., Music
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Blke A. Gosnell, Ph.D., Psychology, June 1, 1987
Dionysios Vasilopoulos, D.Sc., Aerospace Engineering
Adjunct Lecturer
Jean-Claude B. Biza Dance
Douglas D. Davies, M.S.W., Social Work
Mary M. Fehrenbach., M.FA., Dance
Rosemarie Gazzarato M.U.P., Architecture and Urban Planning
Haralambos Georgiadis, Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Harry Gold, Ph.D., Sociology, UM-Dearborn
Harold S. Goodman D.M.D. M.P.H., Dentistry
John E. Hall, B.M., Music, UM-Flint
Dennis R. Hiltunen, B.S.E., Civil Engineering
Cheryl J. Hopkins, B.S. Health Care, UM-Flint
Arnold Kumar Ph.D., Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Barry R. McGhan, Ph.D. Mathematics, UM-Flint
Terrence J. McGinn, Ph.. Religion
Richard G. McGraw, M.PA., Political Science, UM-Flint
Al Movaghar, Ph.D. Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Laura J. Nitzberg, M.S., Social Work
Joseph B. Olivereri M.S., Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Rui C. Orlandi, Ph.D., Aerospace Engineering
Virginia A. Peacock, MA., Studies inReligion
Brian F. Rood, B.M  Music, UM-Flint
Charles E. Schloff, Ed.D., Education, UM-Flint
John B. Slemp., B.S., Computer Science, UM-Flint
Ruth M. Walker, MA. Education, UM-Flint
Paula Weizman BA., Near Eastern Studies
Daniel A. Welch, MA. Education
Nikki A. Westberg, MA. Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Derek R. Won, Ph.D., Civil Engineering, October 5, 1987
Eileen J. Wright, M.S.N., Nursing
Clinical Assistant Professor I
Michael B. Alpern, M.D. Radiology
Jonathan W. T. Ayers, M.D. Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1987
Carol L. Colvin, Pharm.D. Pharmacy, July 1, 1987
Burton I. Ellis, M.D. Radiology
S. Zafar H. Jafri, M.D., Radiology
Kathleen M. Jones, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, July 1, 1987
Michael E. Katz, M.D., Radiology
Jay L. Pearlber, M.D., Radiology
Puranchander Shetty, M.D., Radiology
Clinical Instructor I
Donald D. Cilla, Jr Pharm. D., Pharmacy, July 1, 1987
Regina L. Belvins,.D.S., Dentistry
Cheryl J. Himmelberg, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, July 1, 1987
Edward J. Lahaie, P Pharm  Pharmacy, July 1, 1987
Karen R. Merrifield, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, July 1, 1987


-108 -



November Meeting, 1987


Argy A. Polychronopoulos, Ptychion, Dentistry, September 8, 1987
Algs K. Rasymas, Pharm. D., Pharmacy, July 1, 1987
David R: Scrase, M.D., Internal Medicine
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
Kenneth A. Buckwalter, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Radiology
Gary Davidoff, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitiation
Henry Greenspan, from Adjunct Lecturer to Lecturer in Residential College
Phyllis S. Morris, Visiting Professor of Philosophy, UM-Dearborn, also appointed Visiting Professor of
English, College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Dennis R. Ownby, from Clinical Assistant Professor I to Clinical Associate Professor I of Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases
Misagh Parsa, Adjunct Assistant Professor of Sociology, Literature Science and the Arts, and Adjunct
Assistant Professor of Sociology UM-Dearborn
Beverly C. Payne from Clinical Associate Professor I to Clinical Professor I of Postgraduate Medicine
and Health Professions Education
Marilyn C. Pike Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, also Assistant Professor of Microbiology and
Immunolov
Steven E. Raper, rom Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Surgery
Barbara M. Sloat, from Adjunct Lecturer to Lecturer in Biology
Judith I. Storfiell, from Adjunct Lecturer to Lecturer in Nursing
Kenneth J. Weeks, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Radiation Therapy
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Sabbatical
Susan Boehm, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, September 1, 1987 for a nine-month period
John M. Lawler, Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure Sepember 1, 1987 for a three-month
period
Extended Sick
Maxwell K. Owusu, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, January 1, 1987, for a six-month period
David J. Winter Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, October 1, 1987, for a three-month period
Eshel Ben-Jacob, Assistant Professor of Physics September 22, 1987 for a four-week period
Ruth R. Winter, Clinical Instructor, Anesthesiology, August 23, 1987 for a four-week period
Retirement Furlough
Leon D. Ostrander, Jr., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, September 1, 1987, for a one-year
period
Leave without Salar
David C. Wilson Assistant Professor of Philosophy Um-Dearborn April 30, 1988, cancellation of leave
Christopher Z. Wzacny, Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, for a three-month period
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective August 31, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
Thompson W. Crampton, Clinical Instructor, August 21, 1987
Kenneth A. Foon, Associate Professor, Internal Medicine, with tenure
Alfred H. Geering, Visiting Professor, Dentistry, August 15, 1987
Linda J. Hall Instructor, Internal Medicine, June 30, 1987
Klaus A. Hieber, Clinical Instructor, Pharmacy
Jerome S. Schultz, Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure
David C. Wilson, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, UM-Dearborn, April 30, 1987


-109 -



November Meeting, 1987


Public Comments
The Regents then heard public comments from the following individuals on the
topics indicated: Ambakisye Eberecheuku, UM-Flint staff member, on safety; Wendy
Sharp, Paul Lefrak, and Linda Kurtz, students, on sexual orientation bylaw; Judy Levy,
Bargaining Chair, and Mary Clark, member, AFSCME Local 1583, on racism;
Kimberly Smith, student, on racism; Don Demetriades, President of GEO, and Peggy
Schultz and Eban Goodstein, members of Rackham Student Government, on the
10-term funding limit for LS&A graduate students; and Lillien Waller and Daniel
Holliman, students and members of UCAR, on racism.
The meeting was then recessed.
Friday, November 20, 1987
The Regents met at 9:00 AM.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith, Varner, and Waters. Provost Duderstadt, Vice President and Secretary
Kennedy, and Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson were also
present, as were Chancellors Jenkins and Jones and Interim President Elect Fleming.
Retirement Memoirs
Vice President Kennedy reported the retirement of three faculty members. The
following retirement memoirs were unanimously approved by the Regents:
Armin E. Good, M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine, retired from active
faculty status on July 31, 1986.
A native of Indiana, Dr. Good received his M.D. degree from Harvard Medical
School in 1947. He served his internship at the Millard Fillmore Hospital in Buffalo,
New York, and his residency in neurology and psychiatry at the Veterans
Administration Hospital in Newington, Connecticut. Following two years in the U.S.
Army Medical Corps, Dr. Good came to The University of Michigan, where he
completed his residency training in the Department of Internal Medicine in 1954.
In 1959, after five years of private practice, Dr. Good accepted simultaneous
positions as Chief of the Rheumatology Secion at the Ann Arbor Veterans
Administration Hospital, and Instructor in the Department of Internal Medicine a The
University of Michigan. He was promoted to Assistant Professor in 1963, Associate
Professor in 1967, and Professor of Internal Medicine in 1979. He remained as
Director of the Rheumatology Service at the Veteran's Administration Center until his
retirement.
While Dr. Good has contributed widely to the understanding of the various
rheumatic diseases, to his friends and colleagues he is probably best know for his work
with Reiter's disease. Dr. Good personally knew Dr. Hans Reither, who first
described that disease, and Dr. Good carried on that tradition by extensively studying
and extending our knowledge of Reiter's Syndrome and various complications. This
also led naturally to further studies in ankylosing spondylitis, about which Dr. Good
has written extensively.


-110 -



November Meeting, 1987


His students and associates also remembered Dr. Good from his unusual cases
or unusual manifestations of common types of rheumatic diseases. To his residents'
and fellows' consternation and delight, Dr. Good would always find the unusual in
what would bseem to be a usual case; occasionally he would find unique and unusual
manifestations of many of the common rheumatic diseases that had been overlooked
during the global assessment of the patient. These keen observations led to many of
his unique publications.
The Regents now salute this distinguished member of the faculty for his
dedicated service by naming Armin E. Good Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine.
Clare L. Schelske, Professor of Natural Resources in the School of Natural
Resources, and Associate Professor of Limnology in the College of Engineering,
retired from active facutly status as of July 15, 1987.
A native of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Professor Schnelske received his B.A. and
M.S. degrees from Kansas State Teachers College in 1955 and 1956, respectively, and
his Ph.D. degree from The University of Michigan in 1961. Professor Schelske's
career at The University of Michigan began in 1967 when he accepted an appointment
as Assistant Professor of Environmental Health in the School of Public Health, with a
joint appointment to Assistant Research Limnologist with the Great Lakes Research
Division, Institute of Science and Technology. In 1969, he was appointed Associate
Research Limnologist, and was promoted to Research Limnologist in 1971. He served
as the Great Lakes Research Division's Assistant Director from 1970-72, and Acting
Director from 1973-1976. In 1976, Professor Schelske was named Associate Professor
of Limnology, Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Science, in the College of
Engineering, with a joint appointment to Associate Professor in the School of Natural
Resources. In 1986, he was promoted to Professor of Natural Resources.
Prior to coming to The University of Michigan, Professor Schelske worked in a
variety of academic and governmental settings, including serving as technical assistant
in the Office of Science and Technology, Executive Office of the President,
Washington, D.C.
Professor Schelske's research on biological productivity, nutrient enrichment,
biogeochemistry, and paleolimnology of large lakes fostered collaboration with faculty
and students in both the College  Engineering and the School of Natural Resources.
His interactions with colleagues, and his teaching and advising of students, were
enhanced by the results of his rigorous research activities. Publications, authored both
independently and collaboratively, reflect his ability to consistently contribute to the
body of scientific knowledge in his field.
The Regents now salute this internationally recognized liminogist-chemist by
naming Claire L. Schelske Associate Professor Emeritus of Limnology and Professor
Emeritus of Natural Resources.
Matthew J. Trippe, Professor of Education, retired from active faculty status on
October 31, 1987.
A native of Mt. Morris, New York, Professor Trippe received his B.A. degree
from St. Lawrence University in 1944, and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Syracuse
University in 1951 and 1958, respectively.
Professor Trippe came to The University of Michigan as Professor of Education
after a long and successful career at Syracuse University, George Peabody College for
Teachers and the U.S. Office of Education. Soon after joining the School of
Education he assumed the roles of Special Education Chairperson and Director of
The University of Michigan Fresh Air Camp.
Professor Trippe is a nationally known expert in the field of education and
treatment for emotionally disturbed adolescents and youth. His contributions to the


-111 -



November Meeting, 1987


field of education in general and special education have been both scholarly and
practical. He leaves a legacy in special education that will not be easily matched in the
near future. Professor Trippe worked extensively with students from a wide range of
disciplines. He is well respected for his work in special education and educational
psychology by students and colleagues alike.
During the latter stage of his career, Professor Trippe became physically
disabled, but this did not dampen his enthusiasm for his work and for life i general.
He shifted his work focus and very rapidly became known nationally for his work in
sexuality and disability. His contributins to The University of Michigan, the State of
Michigan, and the nation have been considerable and will have a lasting impact.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator by naming Matthew J.
Trippe Professor Emeritus of Education.
Degrees
The Regents approved the final degree list for the August 1987 Law School
commencement and the recommendations for degrees from the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies for the December 20, 1987 commencement. They also
approved the following amendments to degree lists:
School of Art
Bachelor of Fine Arts, April 1986
add:   Anders Karl Amala, with distinction
Bachelor of Fine Arts, August 1986
add:   Kyra Lynn Te Paske
Bachelor of Fine Arts, May 1987
add:   Bachelor of Fine Arts, August 1987
add:   Carol Marie Grzemkowsk
Collee of Engineerinn
Bachelor of Science i Engineering (Mechanical Engineering), December, 1985
correct to show: Hans Eric von Bernthal
College of Literature. Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Science, December 1982
correct to show: Joseph Mark Burt, Honors in Psychology, with High Distinction
Bachelor of Arts, May, 1987
add:   Dean Michael Gaboury
Bachelor of Science, May, 1987
add:   Mark Alan Matties
Bachelor of Arts, August, 1987
add:   Michael Richard Coffman
C. Tracey Jackson
Rebbecca Tyler Johnson with Distinction
Carrie Lynette Rice
Daniel Abraham Vaisrub
delete: Diana Barker Price
Bachelor of Science August 21, 1987
add:   I mar Ali Al-Quadi with Distinction
Bachelor In General Studies, August 1987
add:   Christopher Evan Beaudoin
Michael Jay Jurado
Veronica Ann Pasfield
University of Michigan-Dearborn
School of Education
Bachelor of Arts, August 1987
correct to show:  Cheryl Ann Dickow, with distinction
Sharryl Lane Sullivan, with distinction


-112 -



November Meeting, 1987


Karen Ann Wilhide, with distinction
Julie Lauren Zatlin, with distinction
Loretta A. Kulpa, with high disctinction
Patricia Mary MacFarlan, with high distinction
Eve Marie Bollin, with distinction
Karen Marie Gorton
Division of Interdisciplinary Studies
Bachelor of Science August 1987
correct to show:  Francis Holton Sexton
College of Arts, Sciences and Letters
Bachelor of Science, August 1987
correct to show:  Bryan Michael Stevens
School of Management
Bachelor of Science in Administration, August 1987
correct to show:  Marie Josephine Nichols, with distinction
University of Michiean-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences, August 1987
add:   Sondra Cooley Rawls, Bachelor of Arts in Political Science
Eveline Thompson, Bachelor of Arts in Social Work
School of Management, August 1987
add:   Angela Fay Slather-Bachelor of Business Administration Marketing
Six-Month Report on University Audits
Carl Smith, Director of University Audits, presented the Six-Month Report on
University Audits. He stated that the student loan default rate is well within
appropriate limits for default, and that the level of accuracy in the equipment
inventory (non-hospital) shows a marked improvement over the last decade. Regent
Roach noted that he had received an anonymous letter that pointed out alleged
irregularities. He said that it is very difficult to follow up on this type of
communication, and that if people want to bring things to the Regents' attention, it is
important that this not be done anonymously.
Vacant Land in Centerville Township, Leelanau County, Michigan
The Regents accepted a gift of vacant land located in Centerville Township,
Leelanau County, from Dr. and Mrs. Brien R. Lang. Any proceeds from a sale would
benefit the Dental School.
Electrical Switching Stations Alternate Feeds
This project, which had originally been approved by the Regents in April 1987 at
an estimated cost of $400,000, was resubmitted at this time because the cost of
underground electrical ductwork had been inadvertently omitted from the consultant's
original estimate. The Regents approved a revised budget of $696,800.
1987 Financial Report Supplemental Schedules for Year Ended June 30, 1987
The Regents received this report, which provides certain detailed information
that supplements the summary report distributed at the October 1987 meeting.
Institute for Social Research Addition
Vice President Brinkerhoff explained that the Regents had originally authorized
the planning of an addition to the Institute for Social Research (ISR) Building in 1979.


-113 -



November Meeting, 1987


At that time, plans were completed and bid documents were produced, but the
economic downturn at that time precluded proceeding with the project, and it was put
on hold. Current plans are to proceed with construction of the 1979 design (updating
it to utilize new products and technologies developed since then). When it is
completed, the Division of Research Development and Administration (DRDA) and
the Federal Fund Accounting group, currently housed in the West Engineering
Building, will move there temporarily. The vacated space will be reassigned tor offices
and dry labs for the Department of Physics. The ultimate home of DRDA and
Federal Fund Accounting will be the Perry Building, after the Psychology Department
has vacated it and it has been remodeled, which is expected to be in 4 or 5 years time.
The vacated space in the new ISR addition will then be made available to ISR,
depending on the Institute's programmatic needs and financial capacity at that time.
The Regents authorized completing plans for the Institute for Social Research
addition and releasing the project for bids, at an estimated cost of $3,975,000.
E.H. Kraus Natural Science Building Renovations
This project calls for installation of modern heating, ventilating, and electrical
and lighting systems for the entire E.H. Kraus Natural Science Building, as well as
remodeling of laboratories on the third and fourth floors and a limited amount of
renovation on the lower levels. The project is expected to cost $12.5 million, with $10
million coming from a state capital appropriation and the balance from University
funds. On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Roach, the project was
approved unanimously.
Mason Hall Installation of Central Air Conditioning Equipment
The Regents approved installation of central air conditioning in Mason Hall, at
a total estimated cost of $780,000.
University of Michigan Hospitals North Ingalls Building Renovation Project
The Regents approved award of construction contracts to Graham Architectural
Products Corporation for the exterior window package, Boone and Darr, Inc. for the
heating and air conditioning package, and subsequently, the award of construction
contracts for the remaining packages, providing the total construction commitment
does not exceed the previously approved budget of $5 million. The contract will be
award upon approval of a Certificate of Need by the Michigan Department of Public
Health.
Capital Outlay Request, 1988-89, All Campuses
The Regents approved the capital outlay request to the State of Michigan, for
all three campuses, as recommended by Vice President Brinkerhoff.
Establishment of Geriatrics Center of Excellence at The University of Michigan
Vice Provost Zuidema addressed the Regents about plans to establish a
Geriatrics Center of Excellence at the University of Michigan Medical Center. This is
to be one of several interdisciplinary "Centers of Excellence" that are incorporated in
the Medical Center's strategic plan to address major societal issues. It will pull
together several existing programs within the Medical Center and within the Veterans
Administration.


-114 -



November Meeting, 1987


Regent Smith suggested that if and when it becomes necessary to design a
separate facility for the Geriatrics Center, the planners solicit the services of Nathan
Levine, of Detroit, who has a Ph.D. in Geriatric Architecture from The University of
Michigan. The Regents unanimously approved the establishment of the Geriatrics
Center of Excellence.
Tuition Differential for Engineering and Management Students, UM-Dearborn
The Regents approved a fee differential for upper division and graduate courses
in Engineering and Management at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, to take
effect January 1, 1988. The fee differential will consist of $10 per credit for upper
division courses in Engineering and Management, and $20 per credit for graduate
courses in those fields, to a maximum of $100 per term from any student, regardless of
the number of credits involved. Regent Roach expressed concern about the precedent
that would be set by instituting a mid-year fee increase, and stressed that this is a
unique situation. Chancellor Jenkins and President Shapiro noted that students were
on the original ad hoc committee that made the recommendation to increase fees, and
indeed have been urging that this action be taken in order to achieve full accreditation
and sustain the high quality of the programs.
Incorporation of the Art Program into the Music Department, UM-Flint
The Regents approved consolidation of the Music Department and the Art
program into one departmental unit at the University of Michigan-Flint.
ICPSR Membership in the Council of Professional Associations on Federal Statistics
(COPAFS)
The Regents approved membership of the Inter-university Consortium for
Political and Social Research (ICPSR) in the Council of Professional Associations on
Federal Statistics (COPAFS), at a cost of $1,000.
Membership for Dr. Raymond J. Fonseca in the Michigan Dental Association
The Regents approved the payment of $793 to cover active membership in the
Michigan Dental Association for Dr. Raymond J. Fonseca, Chairman of the
Department of Oral Diagnosis/Pathology/Surgery, School of Dentistry.
Estate of Helen F. Weber, Real Estate
The Regents voted to table a recommendation to sell this real estate at a price
of $8,000, pending receipt of further information regarding its appraised value.
Regent Nielsen requested that the Regents be provided with a copy of the offer to
purchase this property by the next meeting.
Litigation Between Members of the University Community
Regent Nielsen brought up the fact that the University has agreed to defend a
University student and staff member in private litigation against another member of
the University community. He expressed his belief that a) this is inappropriate to
expend public moneys to defend people in their private litigation, and b) the particular
law firm hired by the Office of the General Council to defend the litigant charges rates
far in excess of those charged by local firms. Regent Nielsen moved that the parties in


-115 -



November Meeting, 1987


that particular private litigation as well as the law firm that has been retained by the
University be advised that we may, in fact, not be paying the costs. Regent Smith
seconded the motion.
Discussion followed about the need for a general policy relating to how to deal
with the issues raised by Regent Nielsen. Regent Power stressed that he did not want
the Regents' action to be interpreted as in any way as backing off from the University's
commitment to the "Tell Someone" campaign, which is meant to help victims of sexual
assault and prevent future episodes. Regent Brown noted that this type of campaign
raises a complex question as to the limits of the University's obligation when lawsuits
arise after people have done what the policy asks them to do. It is important for all of
these questions to be considered. President Shapiro agreed, stating that the
administration will study the problem and report back to the Regents. The vote was
then taken, and the motion carried unanimously.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. All motions were
approved unanimously, unless otherwise noted. Transportation and accomodation
expenses for the month of November, 1987 totalled $9,748.10. The next meeting will
take place on December 17 and 18, 1987.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secret


-116 -



DECEMBER MEETING, 1987


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, December 17, 1987
The Regents met at 1:15 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Power, Roach, Smith,
Varner, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost Duderstadt, and
Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson were also present, as
were Chancellors Jenkins and Jones and Interim President-Elect Fleming. Regent
Nielsen was absent.
President Shapiro called the meeting to order, and recognized Regent Brown.
Regent Brown requested that Associate Professor Vivian Shapiro join President
Shapiro at the meeting table, and then read the following resolution:
Resolution in Honor of Harold and Vivian Shapiro
The Regents of The University of Michigan extend to Harold and
Vivian Shapiro their warmest greetings and deep gratitude on the
occasion of their move to Princeton University.
In 1964, they came to Ann Arbor directly after Harold's graduate
work at Princeton. They set about all the usual tasks of a new faculty
family, raising children, going to school, teaching, researching, struggling,
and achieving. By 1970, Harold had become a full professor while
Vivian had completed her Master of Social Work degree and had begun
her clinical work at the Huron Valley Child Guidance Clinic. In 1977,
Harold was named Vice President for Academic Affairs and Vivian,
Lecturer in the School of Social Work. She became an Assistant
Professor in 1980 and Associate Professor in 1985, while he became
President in 1980. Each step brought more responsibility, stronger
commitment, and progressively greater accomplishments. They have
done it all with a style, grace, and dedication that are nearly unmatched
in University annals.
It is difficult to grasp or adequately describe in words all that they
have given to this community, and to this University. Their mark, while
gently applied, will be indelible. They led us to excellence. To say that
they executed their respective offices of President and Associate Professor
with high distinction considerably understates the contributions of these
two remarkable people to the life of this University. They are now and
will be forever a part of the very fabric of this institution.
The Regents commend Harold and Vivian Shapiro for their service
in every facet of the life of this community. We wish them Godspeed in
their new endeavors and express our fond hope that we might welcome
them back from Princeton on yet another day.


-117 -



December Meeting, 1987


It is with great pleasure and deep gratitude that the Regents now
name Vivian Shapiro Associate Professor Emeritus of Social Work and
Harold Shapiro, President Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of
Economics.
Regent Baker seconded the motion, which was followed by a resounding
standing ovation. Mrs. Shapiro and President Shapiro each expressed their gratitude
for the support they have received from the Regents, the executive officers, and all
members of the University community during their years at The University of
Michigan. Then each regent in turn conveyed to the Shapiros some personal thoughts
about experiences they have shared with the Shapiros in their roles as regents. Regent
Baker noted that President Shapiro solved the conundrum of whether The University
of Michigan, a great public university, could continue to be a great university.
President Shapiro's efforts in improving scholarship, research, teaching and admissions
proved that public universities can be great universities, in spite of the many pressures
that influence public institutions.
Regent Baker observed that Mrs. Shapiro divided her efforts between
scholarship, teaching, and being an outstanding "First Lady" of the University, yet
always fulfilled her very important responsibilities as wife, mother and finally,
grandmother. President Shapiro again thanked the Board, and continued with the
regular agenda.
Minutes of Meeting of November 1987
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Smith, the minutes of the
meeting of November 19-20, 1987 were unanimously approved.
Reports
In the Report on Investment Transactions, Vice President Brinkerhoff noted the
unusual number of stock purchases that the University has made during the past
month, as well as the number of sales. He also submitted the Plant Extension,
Litigation, and Personnel/Labor Relations Report. Regarding the latter report, Vice
President Brinkerhoff noted that MCare HMO enrollment is about 600 above what
had been anticipated at this point in time.
Vice President Wilson submitted the Summaries of a Selection of Current
Research report for November, 1987 and the report of Awards Received Research
and Other Academic Activities for the period of September 26-October 16, 1987. She
noted that for the first four months of this fiscal year, research expenditures have
increased 12% over the same period last year, and that if this trend continues, the
figure at year's end will be nearly $230 million.
University Health Service Report
A report on University Health Service, which is the second in a series of reports
from the Office of Student Services, was filed by Vice President Johnson. Regent
Baker noted the expansion in services that has accompanied the increase in Health
Service fees over the years. Vice President Brinkerhoff explained that most of the
ancillary activities offered by Health Service, such as health education, are funded by
outside agencies such as the Washtenaw County Department of Public Health, and
that such activities actually reduce overall costs to the University of running the


-118 -



December Meeting, 1987


Health Service. President Shapiro pointed out that the chief reason for increases in
Health Service fees has been the requirement of the state that it be removed from
General Fund support. Regent Baker stated that he continued to have doubts about
Health Service fees; he feels that students who have private health insurance coverage
are charged twice. Regent Roach noted that Health Service fees have risen at a rate
below both the inflation rate and other health care rates, and that the decision to have
a mandatory health service fee has proven to be a sound management decision.
Gifts and Grants
The Regents received the Report of Gifts Received for November 1987, along
with the Listing of Gifts of $5,000 and above, the Development and Communication
Activity Report, the Campaign Progress Report, and the Campaign Phase II Report.
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health, and in the College
of Pharmacy                                                              87,183
American Diabetes Association, Michigan Affiliate, Inc.,
Southfield; for research in the Medical School                           23,750
Anonymous Donor
for support of the Clements Library, the Kelsey Museum, the Museum of Art, and
the College of Literature Science and the Arts                           16,000
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for support of the College of Engineering                                40,000
Carl F. Beaver Estate
for the Catherine Hannah Beaver Endowed Scholarship in the School of Music,
and the Carl Beaver Endowed Scholarship in the Medical School           61,706
Michael A. Bergin, Indianapolis, Indiana
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                5,000
David E. A. Carson. Bridgeport, Connecticut
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship fund                              25,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                          5,200
David J. Conrad, Sagnaw
shares of Fidelity Capital Appreciation Fund; pledge payment for the Chalmers
J. Lyons Endowed Chair in the School of Dentistry                         7,572
Gerard J. and Mary Dougher, Launa Beach, California
for research in the Medical School                                       13,425
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for manufacturing research in the School of Business Administration, and
for the Dow Fellowship in the School of Public Health                   20,000
William Dyer Residual Trust
for Gifts Pending Designation fund                                      297,739
Kenneth A. Easlick Graduate Society, Ann Arbor
for research in the School of Dentistry                                  5,000
Dr. and Mrs. William Ensminger Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                       7,000
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York
for the Schools of Business Administration and Law, the Colleges of
Engin.eering and Literature, Sciences and the Arts, and for Employee
Matching Gifts funds                                                     52,475
Fruehauf Corporation, Detroit
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Campaign for Michigan -
School of Business Administration Component                              10,000
William A. Garrison Estate
for the William A. Garrison Memorial Scholarship fund                     6,615
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for the General Electric Foundation Student Loan Fund in the College of
Engineering                                                              50,000
Norma B. Goodman, Cranston, Rhode Island
for classical studies support in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  5,000
Lawrence M. Goodspeed Trust Farmington Hills
for support of the School of Business Administration                     12,000


-119 -



December Meeting, 1987


Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company Akron, Ohio
for support of the College of Engineering                                 8,500
Philip L. Graham Fund Washington, D.C.
pledge payment tor the Journalists in Residence Endowment in the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts                                      55,000
Hereditary Disease Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School                                       12,600
Japanese Society of Detroit, Southfield
for Japanese studies support in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  10,000
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso, Indiana
for the Joseph and Louise Ada Jarabak Library and Lectureship Funds in the
School of Dentistry                                                      10,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Dentistry                                  24,381
Mrs. Lewis D. Kaufman, Ann Arbor
National Aviation & Technology common stock; for the Lewis D. Kaufman Fund
in the Medical School                                                     7,367
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Wilbur Cohen Symposium                                           15,000
Kraft Foundation Glenview, Illinois
for the D. Maynard Phelps Fund in the School of Business Administration  10,000
Mrs. Howard J. Lacy II, Indianapolis, Indiana
Forum Group, and Abboft Laboratories common stocks; for unrestricted support
of the Campaign for Michigan                                            100,475
Magna International, Inc., Markham, Ontario, Canada
pledge payment for entrepreneurial studies in the School of Business Administration  50,000
Malloy Lithographing, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Schoofof Business Administration, and for the swimming and diving
facility in the Department of Athletics                                  10,000
Marion Laboratories, Inc. Kansas City, Missouri
for research in the Medical School                                       10,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research fund                 5,358
Richard H. McManus Estate
for support of the School of Social Work                                 12,599
Dr. and Mrs. James A. McNamara, Jr. Ann Arbor
pledge payment for support of the School of Dentistry                     5,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation New York, New York
for Visiting Scholars FelIowships in the Institute for the Humanities, College
of Literature, Science and the Arts                                     200,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for thoracic surgery support in the Medical School                       12,500
Monsanto Company, St. Louis, Missouri
for biophysics research m the Institute of Science and Technology        20,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                       16,542
Gregor N. Neff, Dobbs Ferry, New York
for scholarships in the Law School                                        5,000
Parker-Hannifmi Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for support of the Law School                                            10,000
Penederm, Inc, Palo Alto, California
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                   5,000
Beahl T. Perrine, Cedar Rapids, Iowa
for unrestricted support of the Law School                               10,000
Pillsbury Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Pillsbury Fellowship in the School of Business Administration     5,000
William H. Piper, Flint
for theWanda L. and M. Harry Piper Fund, The University of Michigan-Flint  5,000
Zella Carr Poorman Trust, West Lafayette, Indiana
for the William F. Poorman Mathematics Fund in the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts                                                             13,000
Power Foundation, Ann Arbor
pledge payments for the Eugene B. Power Collection in the University Library,
and for the Journalists in Residence Endowment in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                     45,000
PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - Chemical Sciences Facilities
Component                                                                20,000
Gordon E. Reynolds, Pontiac
for the Richard Reynolds Memorial Fund at The University of Michigan-Dearborn  5,700


-120 -



December Meeting, 1987


Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for the Rockefeller Foundation Service Appreciation Award in the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies                                      5,000
Donald H. and Elizabeth F. Runck, Green Valley, Arizona
for Endowed Student Aid in the Campaign for Michigan fund               7,500
Schlumberger Foundation, Sugar Land, Texas
for the Schlumberger Collegate Scholarship in the College of Engineering  6,000
Sherwin-Williams Company, Cleveland, Ohio
for macromolecular research in the Institute of Science and Technology  5,000
Siemens Gammasonics, Inc., Des Plaines Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                     40,500
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B., and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School  6,086
Lenore Smith, Grand Rapids
for the Mary Agnes Smith-Grand Rapids Alumnae Scholarship fund         5,000
Spring Into Summer Ann Arbor
for support of the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital                       19,425
Stearns Charitable Trust, Concord, Massachusetts
for support of the Museum of Art, in memory of Russell B. Stearns       5,000
Sterling-Winthrop Research Institute Rensselaer, New York
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                12,500
Tenneco Automotive, Deerfield, Illinois
pledge payment for The University of Michigan-Dearborn, Engineering CAD/CAM
Laboratory                                                             35,000
Unisys Corporation, Detroit
for the Unisys Corporation Scholarship in the College of Engineering   24,174
Harold and Grace Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - Eye Center Component    20,000
Varnum, Riddermg, Schmidt & Howlett, Grand Rapids
pledge payment for the Institute of Continuing Legal Education in the Law School  6,500
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Northbrook, Illinois
Walgreen Company common stock; pledge payment for the Swimming and Diving
Facllty in the Department of Athletics                                 26,563
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Samuel L. Westerman Endowed Scholarship in the Department of Athletics  10,000
The following gifts-in-kind were received:
Melvin Brody, Beverly Hills, California
Marble head of a Satyr, first to second century; for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology
John Fluke Manufacturing Company, Inc., Everett Washington
Electronics Laboratory equipment; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Brigitte D. and George H. Muller, Ann Arbor
A Josef von Brandt painting, "Krakow Market" (1911), oil on canvas; for the Museum of Art
John E. Riecker, Midland
A sixteen-foot, inboard-outboard boat; for Camp Michigania
Personnel Actions
Provost Duderstadt withdrew the Faculty Appointment Recommendation for
John A. Muckstadt. The Regents approved the following personnel actions:


-121 -



December Meeting, 1987


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND
FULL PROFESSOR RANKS WITH TENURE
Effective January 1, 1988
Edward S. Davidson, Ph.D., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Chair,
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, for a five-year term
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective January 1, 1988
Timothy J. Drummond, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED
ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1988 unless otherwise indicated
Thomas C. Adamson, Jr., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, reappointed Chair of the Department of
Aerospace Engineering for a six-month term
Alton B. Becker, Professor Emeritus of Linguistics, reappointed to teach a class in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts Winter term 1988
Brian A. Burt, Professor of Dental Public Health, reappointed Chair of the Department of Community
Health Programs for a three-year term
John C. Dann, Lecturer, Department of History, reappointed Director of the William L. Clements
Library for a two-year term, July 1 1987
Russell N. Deong, Professor Emeritus of Neurology reappointed to teach a class in the Medical School
Thomas J. DeKornfeld, Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology and Professor Emeritus of Postgraduate
Medicine and Health Professions Education, reappointed to teach a class in the Medical School
Daniel R. Fusfeld, Professor Emeritus of Economics, reappointed to teach a class in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts, Winter term, 1988
Gerald P. Hodge, Professor Emeritus of Medical and Biological Illustration and Professor Emeritus of
Art reappointed to teach in the Medical School
Frederick William Kahler, Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, reappointed to teach a class in the School of
Dentistry
George Kish, Professor Emeritus of Geography, reappointed to teach a class in the College of
Literature Science and the Arts, Winter term, 1988
Paul W. McCracken, Edmund Ezra Day Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of Business
Economics and Public Policy reappointed to teach a class in the School of Business
Administration
Joseph E. Vaughn, Associate Professor Emeritus of Physical Education, reappointed to teach a class in
the Division of Physical Education Winter term, 1988
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Robin Barlow, Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Director of the Center for Research on
Economic Development, also appointed Professor of Population Planning and International
Health, without tenure
Arnold Monto, Professor of Epidemiology^ with tenure, and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
also appointed Professor of Population Planning and International Health
Gerald E. Moran, Professor of History with tenure, appointed Acting Chair of the Department of
Social Sciences, UM-Dearborn {or a eight-month term
David Schoem, Lecturer of English Language and Literature, appointed Assistant Dean for the
Freshman and Sophmore Years Colege of Literature, Science and the Arts
R. Shantaram, Associate Professor of Computer Science, appointed Acting Chair of the Department of
Computer Science Winter term 1988
Thomas C. Shope, Associate Professor in Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with
tenure, Associate Professor of Pediatrics in the Department of Pathology, and also appointed
Associate Dean for Academic Programs, Medical School
Donita B. Sullivan, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, appointed Acting
Chair of the Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Lee-Jen Wei, Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health, also appointed Professor
of Statistics, College of Literature, Science and the Arts


-122 -



December Meeting, 1987


The following committee appointments were approved:
Institute of Gerontology Executive Board
Charles F. Yocum, for the period ending December 31, 1990, vice Alfred C. Cain, resigned
University Press Executive Committee
William Anderson, for the period ending August 31, 1990, vice Donald Brown, term expired
John Holland for the period ending August 31, 1990, vice Dimitri Coucouvams, term expired
Raymond C. Kelly, the period ending August 31, 1990, vice Thomas Holt term expired
Elaine Gazda, for the period ending April 30, 1988, vice Evan Mauer, on sabbatical
Michian Historial Collections Executive Committee
Sidney Fine, for the ped ending October 311992, reappointed
John D'Arms, for the period ending October 31, 1991, reappointed
UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
effrey Stern, for the period endi April 30, 988, vice Dan Swift resigned
Roger Verhey, for the period endig April 30,1988, Frank Pap resigned
Richard Potts, for the period ending April 30, 1988, vice JohnRiebesell, resigned
Everett E. Berg Professorship in Business Administration. The Regents
established the Everett E. Berg Professorship in Business Administration, effective
December 1, 1987. Appointments to this professorship will be for five-year renewable
terms upon approval by the Dean and the Executive Committee of the School of
Business Administration.
Jack D. Sparks - Whirlpool Corporation Research Professorship in Business
Administration. An endowed research professorship, the Jack D. Sparks - Whirlpool
Corporation Research Professorship in Business Administration, was established by
the Regents, effective January 1, 1988.
James V. Campbell Professor of Law. The Regents appointed Roger A.
Cunningham to a five-year term as the James V. Campbell Professor of Law, effective
September 1, 1987.
Lewis M. Simes Professor of Law. The Regents appointed Lawrence W.
Waggoner to a five-year term as the Lewis M. Simes Professor of Law, effective
September 1, 1987.
Thomas S. Monaghan Visiting Associate Professor. The Regents approved the
appointment of Stuart Cohen as the Thomas S. Monaghan Visiting Professor in
Architecture for the period of January 1 - April 30, 1988.
Stephen M. Ross Professorship in Real Estate. The Regents approved the
establishment of the Stephen M. Ross Professorship in Real Estate in the School of
Business Administration as an endowed named professorship.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following Personnel Reports:


-123 -



December Meeting, 1987


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective November 1, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Craig D. Logsdon, Ph.D., Physiology
Richard H. Pildes, J.D., Law
Instructor
Carmen R. Ventocilla, M.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
VisitinAssociate Professor
Michael J. Boivin, Ph.D., Psychiatry
Connie R. Robinson, Ph.D., Nursing
Visitin Lecturer
DavidL. Hinkamp, M.P.H., Environmental and Industrial Health
Weimin Liu, M.S., Physiology, October 26, 1987
Adjunct Associate Professor
John E. Bleasdale, Ph.D., Biological Chemistry
Adiunct Assistant Professor
Ravindra K. Gupta, M.S.M.E. Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn, September 1, 1987
David J. Herring, J.D., Law, November 16, 1987
Adjunct Instructor
Kathleen A.M. Hinderer, M.P.T., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, October 1, 1987
Adjunct Lecturer
Jane E. Allmen MA., Physical Education, September 1, 1987
Bess A. Blake, M.S.N. Nursing, September 1, 1987
Jacoba J. Eisen, D.D.S., Dentistry
Steven R. Fudge, D.D.S Dentistry
Marcia L. D. Godinho, IA. Spanish, October 26 1987
Everett K. Kuo, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering, TJM-Dearborn, September 1, 1987
David M. Priestap, BA., Music, UM-Flint, September 1, 1987
Davin P. Torre, M.M. Music, UM-Flint September 1, 1987
Barry J. Wentz, M.M.d., Music, UM-Flint September 1, 1987
Louise A. Whitney, M.S., Kinesiology, October 1, 1987
Clinical Associate Professor II
Richard M. Levin, M.D., Anesthesiology
Clinical Assistant Professor I
Karen C. Uzark, Ph.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, September 1, 1987
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF
INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1987
Robert P. Caplan, Adjunct Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science and the Arts, also
appointed Adjunct Professor of Psychology, School of Social Work
Santhadevi Jeyabalan, from Adjunct Lecturer to Lecturer of Biology and Comprehensive Studies
Program
David R. Nerenz from Assistant Professor to Lecturer of Health Services Management and Policy
Mary L. Parker, from Adjunct Lecturer to Instructor of Nursing
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRARTIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Sabbatical
Bernard W. Agranoff, Director of the Mental Health Research Institute, Professor of Biological
Chemistry and Psychiatry, with tenure, November 1 1987 for a six-month period
Daniel Axelrod, Professor of Physics, with tenure, September 1, 1987 for a three-month period


-124 -



December Meeting, 1987


Dut off Camous
Mathew Alpern, Professor of Physiological Optics, with tenure and Professor of Physiology, with tenure,
November 2, 1987 for a one-month period
Peter J. McDonough, Professor of Politicaf Science, without tenure, June 1, 1987 for a six-month period
Kent J. Sheets, Assistant Professor, Family Practice, October 19, 1987 for a two month period
Extended Sick
Betty J. Davis, Associate Professor Nursing, with tenure, September 22, 1987 until December 7, 1987
Joseph N. Payne, Professor of Mathematics Education, with tenure, October 26, 1987 until December
Daniel Sinclair, Professor of Physics, with tenure, September 22, 1987 until December 31, 1987
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED
ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Heinz Beneking, Paul G. Goebel Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
December 31 1987
Linda M. Graham, Associate Professor, with tenure, Surgery November 15, 1987
Jack E. Juni Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, November 21, 1987
Steven D. Weiss, Instructor of Anesthesiology, November 13, 1987


-125 -



December Meeting, 1987


Retirement Memoirs
Vice President Kennedy submitted memoirs for seven retiring faculty members,
which were unanimously adopted by the Regents.
Ronald C. Bishop, M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine in the Department of
Hematology/Oncology, retired from active faculty status on November 30, 1987.
Born in Almont, Michigan, Dr. Bishop received his B.S. degree from Michigan
State College in 1942, and his M.D. degree from The University of Michigan in 1944.
He completed his post-graduate training in Boston, Massachusetts and New York City,
served two years in the U.S. Army Medical Corps, and returned to the Medical School
faculty of The University of Michigan in 1951. He was appointed assistant professor of
internal medicine in 1954, associate professor in 1957, and professor of internal
medicine in 1965.
Dr. Bishop's activities have focused primarily on medical education,
administration, and patient care. For 13 years he served as chief of medicine at the
Ann Arbor Veteran's Administration Hospital, developing the program in internal
medicine. He had several terms of service on the University Senate Assembly, which
culminated in chairmanship of the Senate Advisory Committee for University Affairs
in 1982-83. Dr. Bishop also had a decade of responsibility for junior medical student
training within the Department of Internal Medicine, where he was a modest,
accessible, and steadfastly dependable mentor to the young physician-trainees in
hematology.
The earliest research interest of Dr. Bishop involved the use of radioisotopes in
the diagnosis and study of hematologic diseases. As an outgrowth of this work, he
served on the radiation policy committee of the University for many years, and chaired
the subcommittee on the human use of radioisotope. Dr. Bishop also served as a
member or officer of numerous state and national professional organizations.
Dr. Bishop is especially noted for his life-long commitment to human values and
ethics which expressed itself in several spheres, both within and outside the University.
He was the medical school director of the unit on human values in medicine, served
on the medical school committee to review grants for clinical research and
investigations involving human beings, was a member of the Ann Arbor Public School
Board of Education from 1969-72, and has had prolonged service on the Board of
Trustees of the First Unitarian Church.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Ronald C. Bishop Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine.
Thomas J. DeKornfeld, M.D., Professor of Anesthesiology and of Postgraduate
Medicine and Health Professions Education, will retire from active faculty status as of
December 31, 1987, after 23 years as a teacher, physician and administrator.
Dr. DeKornfeld was born in Hungary and entered the United States shortly
after the end of World War II. He received his B.S. and M.S. degrees from George
Washington University in 1948 and 1949, respectively, and his M.D. degree from
Harvar Medical School in 1953. Both his internship and residency in anesthesiology
were completed at the University of Wisconsin in 1954 and 1956, respectively. He
remained as part of the University faculty for one year. Dr. DeKornfeld was
appointed assistant chief of anesthesiology at Baltimore City Hospital in 1957, acting
chief in 1961, and chief in 1962.
In April, 1963, Dr. DeKornfeld came to Ann Arbor as director of therapeutic
research for Parke Davis and Company. At that time, he also served as clinical
associate professor in the department of anesthesiology at The University of


-126 -



December Meeting, 1987


Michigan. He accepted the position of associate professor of anesthesiology in 1964,
and was promoted to professor in 1968. He served as acting chairman in the
department in 1970, 1980, and 1985, and as acting associate chairman in 1986. As part
of his responsibilities in the Department of Anesthesiology, Dr. DeKornfeld was
medical director of the University Hospital's Respiratory Therapy Department from
1965-1972. During that time he founded and directed the Washtenaw Community
College program in respiratory therapy. He was a member of the Joint Review
Commission for Respiratory Therapy Education for a number of years and served as
its chairman from 1976-1978.
In 1978, Dr. DeKornfeld received a joint appointment as professor of
postgraduate medicine and health professions education, thus formally recognizing the
collaboration that had been ongoing for several years. From 1972-1977, he was
director of the Office of Allied Education in that department. Since 1982, Dr.
DeKornfeld has been editor of The Michigan Postgraduate Review.
Dr. DeKornfeld has received a significant measure of national recognition. In
1984, for his efforts in the respiratory therapy field, the American Association for
Respiratory Care awarded him the Jimmie A. Young medal for outstanding service to
respiratory care. In 1986, for his contributions to health care, he was recognized by
the Michigan House of Representatives with a commemorative resolution.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Thomas J. DeKornfeld Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology and
Professor Emeritus of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education.
Gerald P. Hodge, Professor of Art in the School of Art and Professor of Medical
and Biological Illustration in the Medical School, will retire from active faculty status
as of December 31, 1987, following a distinguished career of 32 years.
Born in Denver, Colorado, Professor Hodge received his B.F.A. degree from the
University of Colorado in 1943, and his Certificate of Medical illustration from The
Johns Hopkins University Medical School in 1949. Prior to his appointment at The
University of Michigan, he worked as a medical illustrator at the Sugarbaker Cancer
Clinic in Missouri, and as associate professor and director of the Department of
Medical illustration at Louisiana State University.
In 1955, Professor Hodge came to The University of Michigan as assistant
professor of medical illustration. He was promoted to associate professor in 1959, and
professor in 1969. In 1964, he became the first director of the new master's degree
program in medical illustration. Under his director and leadership, the program
earned the reputation as one of the finest in the country. Professor Hodge received an
additional appointment as associate professor of art in 1964. He was promoted to
professor of art in 1967.
A prolific artist and exhibitor, Professor Hodge's work in pen and ink
illustration, and color illustraration in scientific and non-scientific works has received
numerous prestigious awards, including the Russell Drake Award, the RMurial
McLathchie Miller Award, the Max Broedel Award, and the Ralph Sweet Award. He
was president of the Association of Medical Illustrators from 1965-1966, and received
the Distinguished Member Award from that association. Recipient of the coveted
Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award in 1984, Professor Hodge epitomized the
criteria of excellence in teaching, research, publication, and creative work in the arts,
bringing distinction to The University of Michigan. Honored for eight consecutive
years by invitation as a distinguished guest lecturer at the Smithsonian Institution in
Washington, D.C., he taught "Pen and Ink Drawing for Scientific Illustration." In 1987,
he was the Feldman Lecturer at The Johns Hopkins School of Medicine. His two
most recent exhibitions of art, in 1987, were both one-man shows: one in Minneapolis,
at the meeting of the Association of Medical Illustrators, and the other at the Bentley


-127 -



December Meeting, 1987


Historical Library. Professor Hodge's published professional work includes
illustrations for several hundred medical and scientific journals and original articles
pertaining to his research. He also served as editor of the Visual Medicine Joumal, and
consulting art director for Lea & Febinger Publishing Company in Philadelphia.
The Regents now salute the contributions o this distinguished administrator,
teacher, and artist by naming Gerald P. Hodge Professor Emeritus of Art and
Professor Emeritus of Medical and Biological Illustration.
Daniel T. Longone, Professor of Chemistry in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, will retire from active status as of December 31, 1987.
A native of Worcester, Massachusetts, Professor Longone received his B.S.
degree from Worcester Polytechnic Institute in 1954, and his Ph.D. degree from
Cornell University in 1958. In 1959, after a year as a postdoctoral research associate
at the University of Illinois, Professor Longone joined The University of Michigan
faculty as an instructor n the chemistry department. He was appointed assistant
professor of chemistry in 1962, associate professor of chemistry in 1966, and professor
of chemistry in 1971.
Professor Longone's career at The University of Michigan exemplifies the true
liberal arts tradition. He has combined carefully conceived research in
macromolecular chemistry with polished teaching, an active interest in the humanities
and arts, and extensive involvement in college governance. His service on the
executive committee of the College of Literature, Science and the Arts from 1981-84
well-ordered affairs made    a mot aae m    colleague or consultation. His
expertise on the chemistry, history, production, and appreciation of food and drink
may well be unequalled in the University. He has been much in demand nationally as
a lecturer on these subjects.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Daniel T.
Longone Professor Emeritus of Chemistry.
Edwin J. McClendon, Professor of Education, School of Education, and
Professor of Health Education, School of Public Health, will retire from active faculty
status on December 31, 1987, after sixteen years of service.
A Choctaw Indian, born and reared in the old Choctaw Nation in Oklahoma,
Professor McClendon received his B.A. degree from Oklahoma East Central State
College in 1946, his Ed.M. degree from the University of Oklahoma in 1954, and his
Ed.D. degree from Wayne State University in 1964. He joined The University of
Michigan faculty in 1972, accepting a joint appointment as associate professor of
education and associate professor of health education. He was promoted to professor
of education in 1977 and professor of health education in 1978. During his tenure at
the University, Professor McClendon taught courses in health education for both the
School of Education and the School of Public Health, advised graduate students and
chaired dissertation committees.
Professor McClendon has pursued an active career as a researcher, having
written seven books and over 50 monographs, journal articles, and research reports.
His most recent book, Health and Wellness, is widely used in high schools. Prior to his
appointment at The University of Michigan, he worked in public schools as a teacher,
high school principal, director of secondary education, and school superintendent. He
also directed a joint school health project for the Oklahoma Departments of Health
and Education, and served as assistant state superintendent of education for
comprehensive health programs in the Michigan Department of Education. Professor
McClendon's activities extend well beyond the boundaries of the state of Michigan,


-128 -



December Meeting, 1987


serving the cause of health education at national and international levels. Most
recently, he has served as a consultant for the World Health Organization in the
Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand, and Singapore.
In recognition of his professional service and leadership, Professor McClendon
has received many awards, including the Michigan School Health Association's 50th
Anniversary Golden Award for Leadership, honorary life membership in the
American Cancer Society, and the William A. Howe Award of the American School
Health Association, which is the highest service award in the field of school health
granted in the United States. He was also designated as Honored Tribal Elder of the
Native American Students Association. He has served as past chair of the native
American studies sequence in American culture and also represents native Americans
on the University Minority Affairs Council. In addition, he was a member of the
Martin Luther King Symposium planning committee during 1987. Professor
McClendon has long been active in local educational affairs, having been, on several
occasions, elected president of the Plymouth-Canton Board of Education.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Edwin J. McClendon
Professor Emeritus of Education and Professor Emeritus of Health Education.
Lester T. Rutledge, Jr., Professor of Physiology, will retire from active faculty
status as of December 31, 1987, after a most productive career as a teacher and
researcher.
A native of Big Sandy, Montana, Professor Rutledge received his B.A. degree
from Montana State University in 1950. He received his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from
the University of Utah in 1951 and 1953, respectively. He then served as research
instructor and research associate in physiology at the University of Utah from
1953-1956.
In 1956, Professor Rutledge came to The University of Michigan as a research
associate in Physiology. He was appointed assistant professor in 1961, associate
professor in 1962, and professor of physiology in 1967. During his career, he
contributed to research in a number of areas in neurophysiology, having most recently
concentrated on the effects of alcohol. He was for a long time one of the mainstays in
neurophysiology. His contributions to the Department of Physiology and to the neural
and behavioral sciences program of The Unversity of Michigan Medical School will
be sorely missed.
Professor Rutledge played a major role in the development of the neuroscience
training program. He directed the program for many years, and was also chairman of
the neuroscience Ph.D. program committee. In addition, he served on many other
committees, at the departmental, medical school, graduate school and university
levels. He has served The University of Michigan with vigor and devotion for 31 years.
The Regents recognize this distinguished scholar by naming Lester T. Rutledge,
Jr. Professor Emeritus of Physiology.
Geraldine T. Scholl, Professor of Education, will retire from active faculty status
on December 31, 1987, after thirty years of unusually gifted service.
Professor Scholl received her B. Mus. degree from Marygrove College in 1941,
her M.Ed. degree from Wayne State University in 1948, and her Ph.D. degree from
The University of Michigan in 1960. In 1957 she became a teaching fellow at The
University of Michigan. She was appointed assistant professor of education in 1962,
and promoted to professor in 1969.
The breadth and human concern which has characterized Professor Scholl's
professional endeavors began with teaching blind children in public schools and in the
Michigan School for the Blind, and subsequently teaching emotionally disturbed
children at Hawthorne Center. The doctoral program she developed and supported


-129 -



December Meeting, 1987


through training grants was nationally recognized. Professor Scholl was noted for
stimulating important research and fostering student publications. At the same time
she gave a great deal of effort to departmental matters and to the work of the School
of Education at large. These endeavors were in addition to her steady and extensive
production of papers and books. Professor Scholl's work on the Opticon was of
particular benefit to the blind community. Both her book, The School Psychologist and
the Handicapped Child, and her contribution to the leading special education
handbook are widely referenced. Foundations of Education for Blind and Visually
Handicapped Children: Theory and Practice, published in 1986, is destined to become a
classic. A special reception honoring its publications was held recently at the meeting
of the International Council for the Education of the Visually Handicapped, in
Germany. This volume is already being translated into five foreign languages.
Professor Scholl has also been active in local, state, national and international
activities for the blind. Her professional network extends throughout this country and
abroad, where she has taught, presented papers, and served as a consultant. In
1965-66 she served as director of the Physical and Handicapped Branch, Division of
Handicapped Children, U.S. Office of Education, Department of Health, Education &
Welfare. Her extended contribution to the American Foundation for the Blind
included service on the board of trustees, as a board member, as officer, and more
recently as president, becoming the first woman and first professional ever to hold that
office. She has been elected to eight professional and honorary societies. Included in
the extensive list of honors and awards bestowed upon her is the highest honor in her
field, the 1985 Migel Award for outstanding service to the blind. It is with good reason
that Professor Scholl is acknowledged as the leading professional in the education of
the blind.
The Regents now salute this gifted and inspiring faculty member by naming
Geraldine T. Scholl Professor Emeritus of Education.
Degrees
The Regents approved recommendations for an honorary degree, Citation of
Honor, and Outstanding Alumni Achievement Awards.
On the recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Regents also
approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
College of Literature. Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, August 21 1987
add:  Seth W. Cohen, Honors in Political Science with Distinction
correct to show: Pamela Collette Zimer
Scott Alan Dimetrosky, Honors in Sociology
Bachelor of Science, August 21, 1987
correct to show: Karen Lee Rogers, Honors in Anthropology-Zoology with Distinction
delete: Jeffrey Maurice Morrissette
Bachelor in General Studies, August 21, 1987
add:  Harold Brian Hermelee
Bachelor in General Studies, May 1, 1987
add:  Jill Rosalyn Trent
Bachelor in General Studies, August 22, 1986
add:  Robert Leonard Henderson
Bachelor of Arts, August 19, 1984
add:  John Perry Cugliari


-130 -



December Meeting, 1987


Henry Russel Lecturer, 1988
The Regents named Bernard W. Agranoff, M.D., Professor of Biological
Chemistry and Psychiatry, as the 1988 Henry Russel Lecturer.
Business School Growth Fund
Regent Smith moved, and Regent Power seconded, to approve the
establishment and operation of a Michigan Business School Growth fund. President
Shapiro explained that although this fund would be subject to the same overall rules
that guide other University investments, it would also provide an opportunity for two
groups of Business School alumni to direct investments in an attempt to maximize
fundraising opportunities. Regent Baker expressed concern about the conflict
between the Regents' responsibilities for oversight of all University investments and
the separate management of this fund. He asked for an opinion from the University's
legal counsel about the specific responsibilities and obligations of the Regents in this
case, and moved to table the motion until January. Regent Roach seconded the
motion to table, and asked that certain ambiguities in the language of the action
request be clarified when it is brought before the Regents again. The motion to table
carried. In response to a question from Regent Varner, Vice President Brinkerhoff
explained that the fund is to be run for a ten-year trial period, but that it can be
terminated at any time by a vote of two-thirds of the Regents.
Vacant Land Located in McKinley Township, Emmet County
The Regents authorized purchase of the SW 1/4 of NE 1/4 plus ten acres off
the north end of the NW 1/4 of SE 1/4, Section 23, T37N, R4W, McKinley Township,
Emmet County, Michigan, for the Biological Station, at a price of $11,000.
Estate of Helen F. Weber, Real Estate
The Regents voted to table until the January meeting a recommendation to sell
a 40-acre parcel of land in Menominee County, pending receipt of further information.
Parking Operations - Annual Maintenance
The Regents approved the 1988 annual parking maintenance program, which
will concentrate on repairs in certain areas of the Thayer and Fletcher structures and
on safety and lighting issues in various structures. The program will also provide for
routine grading, patching, and resurfacing of parking lots. The total estimated cost of
the maintenance program is $1 million.
West Engineering Building Renovations for Physics
The Regents approved a project to renovate portions of the West Engineering
Building in order to provide additional space for the Physics Department, as part of
the long-range program to upgrade science facilities.
Proposed Memorandum of Understanding Between the University of Michigan and
Merit, Inc. (MERIT)
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement between MERIT, Inc. and The University of


-131 -



December Meeting, 1987


Michigan, allowing the University to enter into an agreement with MERIT regarding
the NSFNET Backbone Network. The agreement between MERIT and the
University falls under the Michigan Conflict of Interest statute, since Douglas E. Van
Houweling serves as both Vice Provost for Information Technology at the University
and Chairman of the Board of Directors of MERIT. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements.
1.     Parties to the agreement will be MERIT and The University of
Michigan.
2.      The agreement will incorporate the terms negotiated on behalf of
MERIT with IBM, MCI, NSF and the state of Michigan. These
agreements are in compliance with University policies regarding
research conducted at the University. MERITs obligations under
these agreements will be carried out by University employees. The
University will be paid $13,996,543 from MERITs agreement with
NSF and an additional $5,000,000 from MERITs agreement with
the state of Michigan. The project will be conducted over a
five-year period.
3.     As Chairman of the Board of Directors, Douglas E. Van
Houweling has signed the agreement for MERIT; Richard L.
Kennedy has signed the agreement for the University.
Regent Baker commended Vice Provost Van Houweling and Vice President
Wilson for their efforts in securing the contract.
New Electrical Switching Station
The Regents authorized award of a contract for a new electrical switching
station to the low bidder, Michigan Electric, Inc., at a cost of $2,719,108.
Randall Laboratory/West Engineering Building Connecting Bridge
The Regents approved a revised budget of $465,000 and authorized award of a
contract to Forner Construction Company for building this pedestrian bridge that will
connect Randall Laboratory to the West Engineering Building.
Old Main Hospital Complex Demolition
The Regents authorized award of a contract to O'Rourke Construction
Company for demolition of the Old Main Hospital Complex, at a cost of $8.1 million.
The cost of demolition of the Administrative Wing is not included in the budget; a
decision on whether or not to include this structure will be held for 30 days, pending
approval by the Regents. Demolition will be by the implosion method. The cost of
the project includes asbestos removal by certified contractors prior to the implosion.
Recommendations for Honorary Degrees
A recommendation by the Advisory Committee on Honorary Degree Policy to
adopt a new Regents' Bylaw Section 9.03 on honorary degrees was tabled until the
January 1988 meeting. Regent Smith expressed objections to portions of the proposed
new bylaw section, while Regent Baker stated that he felt the current bylaw is


-132 -



December Meeting, 1987


satisfactory. He also stated his opinion that he did not feel that the honorary degree
process should be used for political purposes. Regent Roach said that the University
has always been careful not to give honorary degrees for the wrong reasons. Regent
Baker noted that efforts should be undertaken to broaden the spectrum of individuals
awarded honorary degrees to include persons of conservative viewpoints, particularly
when awarding honorary degrees to political figures. Regent Baker further stated that
it is important that Vice President Kennedy be continued as a member of the
Honorary Degree Committee. Regent Smith commented that she supports the
current policy of not awarding honorary degrees in absentia, while Regent Roach
stated that there may be occasions in which it is appropriate to confer degrees in
absentia.
Establishment of a Substance Abuse Center of Excellence at The University of
Michigan
The Regents approved the establishment of a Substance Abuse Center of
Excellence at The University of Michigan, on a vote of seven to one, with Regent
Smith opposed. The center will incorporate inpatient hospital services, residential
treatment services, educational programs, and research grants.
Counseling Center Name Change
The Regents approved a change in name for the Counseling Center. The new
name, effective January 4, 1988, is The University Center for the Child and the Family.
Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Science Name Change
At the request of the chair of the Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic
Science, the Regents approved changing its name to the Department of Atmospheric,
Oceanic and Space Sciences.
Appointment of Blenda J. Wilson as Chancellor of the University of
Michigan-Dearborn
The Regents appointed Blenda J. Wilson for a five year term as Chancellor of
The University of Michigan-Dearborn and Professor of Education, effective July 1,
1988.
Appointment of Colin Day as Director of The University of Michigan Press
The Regents approved the appointment of Colin Day as Director of the
University of Michigan Press, for a five-year term, effective January 4, 1988.
Appointment of Dr. Nathan Scott to Rackham Board of Governors
Dr. Nathan Scott was unanimously approved for appointment to the Rackham
Board of Governors.
Recommendations for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On the recommendation of the Executive Board of The University of Michigan
Hospitals, the Regents approved several appointments to medical staff membership.


-133 -



December Meeting, 1987


Resolution Recognizing Contributions of the Campaign for Michigan Leadership
The Regents approved the following resolution in honor of the follionowing
individuals who held leadership positions in the Campaign for Michigan volunteer
organization: Gerald R. Ford, Roger B. Smith, Harry A. th Towsley, Robert E.
Nederlander, Sarah Goddard Power (posthumously), John R. Edman, Thomas A.
Roach, John E. Riecker, A. Alfred Taubman, Susan Crumpacker Brown and Robert
M. Brown.
On December 31, 1987, The Campaign for Michigan will come to a
close. When it was announced four years ago, the $160-million goal of
the Campaign was the largest ever set for a fundraising effort by a public
university. When the Campaign ends, that ambitious goal will have been
exceeded by many millions of dollars. Beyond even this significant
achievement, the Campaign served as the driving force behind an
unprecedented increase in overall gift activity, which totaled $350 million
over the past five years. Success of this magnitude cannot be attained
without skilled and dedicated leadership.
Recognizing the importance of such leadership, the Regents extend
their deep gratitude to       for his/her generous service to The
University of Michigan as _ _     of The Campaign for Michigan,
1983-1987.
's tireless efforts to inspire and enlist others in the
Campaign have been instrumental in greatly increasing alumni
involvement with and private support for the University. His/her
commitment to Michigan has enriched the long and valued tradition of
volunteer leadership that has been central to the University's distinction
through the years.
The Regents applaud the splendid success of the Campaign, and
convey their warmest appreciation to   for a job extremely well
done.
Report on Student Residency Issues
Provost Duderstadt announced a plan designed to reduce the proportion of
nonresident undergraduates over the next four years. Specifically, the plan calls for a
decrease in Fall, 1988 new nonresident freshmen enrollment of 100 and an increase in
the target for new resident freshmen by 50. Concurrent with the change in enrollment
targets will be an intensification of instate recruitment efforts. In fall, 1989, the
nonresident enrollment target will again be reduced by an additional 100 new
freshmen, and the resident target will be increased by 50. These changes are expected
to bring resident undergraduate enrollment to approximately 70% by the time next
year's freshmen become seniors in the fall of 1991. Provost Duderstadt cautioned that
this plan must be regarded as flexible, due to the massive demographic changes that
are expected to occur over the next decade. During 1989-90, the University will
examine the results of the decisions up to that point, reassess the demographic
changes, and extend the plan as appropriate.
Regent Baker noted that both he and Regent Roach were members of the


-134 -



December Meeting, 1987


committee formed by the legislature to review the enrollment matter. He stated that
this plan expresses the University's good faith efforts as the result of a meeting on
enrollment issues held in the fall of 1987 between University officials and
representatives of the Regents and state legislature, and that he hopes the plan
outlined by Provost Duderstadt will lay the question to rest. Regent Roach observed
that the administration's plan represents a sound decision. Increasing the number of
high quality Michigan students as outlined by Provost Duderstadt is a realistic goal.
The plan will maintain the University's flexibility when the demographic losses occur.
The meeting was recessed at 3:10 PM, to be reconvened at 4:00 PM for the
Public Comments session.
Public Comments
The Regents reconvened at 4:00 PM in the Anderson Room of the Michigan
Union, and heard comments from the following individuals on the topics indicated:
Kent Foster, Carol Wayman, Joseph Meissner, and Terry Smith, students, on changing
the University's nondiscrimination bylaw to include sexual orientation; Aaron
Penington and Adrianne Neff, students, on coming out; and Charles Tackett, Ann
Arbor citizen, on a proposal for a national holiday for Vietnam veterans.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will be on January 14-15, 1988. Transportation, accommodation, and other expenses
for the month of November, 1988 were $9,748.10.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary


-135 -



JANUARY MEETING, 1988


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, January 15, 1988
The Regents met at 1:15 P.M.
Present were Interim President Fleming and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen,
Power, Smith, Varner, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost
Duderstadt, and Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson were
also present, as were Chancellors Jenkins and Jones. Regent Roach arrived about an
hour after the start of the meeting.
Remarks Regarding the Meaning of Martin Luther King, Jr. Birthday Observance
President Fleming called the meeting to order and introduced Vice Provost
Charles Moody, who had been asked to address the Board regarding the observance of
the birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr. Vice Provost Moody suggested that the Board
and the Executive Officers reflect on how the movement identified with Dr. King
impacts on their lives as the leaders of this institution, vis a vis decisions, policies, and
practices that they undertake and how they impact on others. Belief in what Dr. King
stood for must be demonstrated via actions, and not just words. He stated that the
University is great because of its diversity, not in spite of it, and suggested that
administrators participate in the unity march to be held on Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day to demonstrate that they are united in the precepts of social justice.
FY 1988-89 Budget Outlook
Provost Duderstadt then updated the Board on events that have affected the
status of both the present 1987-88 fiscal year and the upcoming 1988-89 fiscal year's
budgets. In December 1987 the governor issued an executive order that reduced this
year's state appropriation by.75%, or $1.7 million, which in University fiscal year
terms, is a cut of $1.2 from the 1987-88 General Fund budget. Furthermore, the
budget reduction represents a permanent reduction of $1.7 million from the
University's base budget. For the current fiscal year, the budget reductions will be
covered from central accounts that are normally budgeted to respond to unanticipated
needs or unexpected opportunities.
Because of the permanent,.75% cut in the base budget, the 1988-89 budget will
require an increase of $1.7 just to return to the level of this year's original
appropriation. Adding a tuition revenue loss of $.7 million that will result from the
University's pledge to increase the ratio of instate to out-of-state students, we are
beginning next year $2.5 million in the hole. The University's revenue projection is
further clouded by the very modest increases that are projected from the state
legislature. The implications of these forecasts are that we will fall considerably short
of our projected revenue of $50 million, and in light of this, we will have no choice but
to recommend significant tuition increases in order to be able to respond to our most
urgent needs in view of a deteriorating state support.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Provost Duderstadt said that the
modification of state appropriations is due to a diminished capacity, not a lack of


-137 -



January Meeting, 1988


desire, on the part of the state legislature to provide funding to the University. State
revenue projections are down and costs are rising.
Minutes of Meeting of December 1987
The Regents approved the minutes of the December, 1987 Regents' Meeting.
Reports
Vice President Brinkerhoff noted two corrections on page 2 of the Report of
Investment Transactions: Under the heading "Comparison with Treasury Bills", the
"U-M Temporary Investments Average Yields to Maturity" figure for November 1987
should be 8.091, and for December 1987 should be 8.077. He also submitted the Plant
Extension, Litigation, Personnel/Labor Relations, and the Report on Noncompetitive
Purchases over $2000 from Single Sources for October 1-December 31, 1987. In the
Personnel/Labor Relations report, he noted that the Michigan Employee Relations
Commission will be conducting elections to determine whether security guards wish to
join the Teamsters Union.
Vice President Wilson filed a report on Summaries of a Selection of Intellectual
Properties Developed by UM Faculty.
Broadcast Properties Report
Hazen Schumacher, Director of Broadcasting and Media Resources, presented
the annual report on operating results of the University's broadcasting properties. He
explained that WFUM-TV is in the red this year because of a decision to purchase
new equipment from current operations and a shortfall in its development income.
However, this does not represent a serious problem, and is expected to be resolved in
the coming year. Deficits will be made up by margins accumulated from prior years.
Regent Baker inquired about whether a radio outlet is being planned for the
northwest part of the state. Mr. Schumacher replied that a plan is in place to provide
that service, but that the high cost has thus far precluded its implementation.
Gifts and Grants
The Regents received Vice President Cosovich's monthly report of Gifts and
Grants. The following gifts were accepted with thanks and in accord with their terms
and conditions:


-138 -



January Meeting, 1988
Amax Foundation Inc., Greenwich, Connecticut
for materials science support in the College of Engineering              7,400
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, NewYork
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health, and in the College
of Pharmacy                                                             79,455
American Diabetes Association, Michigan Affiliate, Inc., Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                       11,296
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Amoco Foundation Fellowship in the College of Engineering,
student aid in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts,
and for Employee Matching Gifts                                         32,246
William E. Bandemer Estate
for endowed scholarships in the College of Engineering, and for cosmetic
surgery research in the Medical School                                 751,815
Willard J.Banyon, Jr. Saint Joseph
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering, and for scholarships
and other support m the Department of Athletics                         20,000
Stephen F. Batory, Grosse Pointe Woods
for support of the University Library                                    5,000
Batten, Barton, Durstine and Osborn, Southfield
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Campaign for Michigan
School of Business Administration                                        5,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship                     27,892
Bixby Foundation, Detroit
for scholarships in the School of Business Administration and the
Department of Athletics, and for the Campaign for Michigan - Replacement
Hospital Component                                                       7,000
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration     5,000
Buhr Foundation, Ann Arbor
ledge payment for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarship in the School of
usiness Administration                                                  5,000
Burroughs Corporation, Detroit
for the Burroughs Curriculum Project in the School of Business Administration  50,000
Will and Jeanne Caldwell Foundation, West Bloomfield
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Campaign for Michigan    10,000
Chevron U.SA. Inc., Concord, California
for the Chevron Fellowship and other support in the College of Engineering  14,405
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                      13,716
Louis and Virginia Clemente Foundation, Inc. New York,
New York; pledge payment for the William M. Sattler Memorial Fund in
the College of Literature, Science and the Arts                         25,000
Coopers & Lybrand Foundation New York, New York
for Employee Matching Cifts                                              8,384
Cummins Engine Company, Inc. Columbus, Indiana
for manufacturing research in the School of Business Administration      5,000
Mrs. Archibald W. Diack Jr. Portland, Oregon
for the Frederick G. Novy Fellowship m Microbiology, in the Medical School  10,000
Donnelly Corporation, Holland
for manufacturing research in the School of Business Administration      5,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for support of the School of Business Administration and the College of
Engineering                                                              5,500
Dow Cormng Foundation, Midland
pledge payments for the Dow Corning Assistant Professorships in the
College of Engineering, and the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  87,500
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for the Eastman Kodak Undergraduate Scholarship, and for fellowships
and other support in the College of Engineering                         46,451
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
for Employee Matching Gifts                                              10,760
Enzon, Inc., South Plainfield,New Jersey
for pharmacology research in the Medical School                          9,000
Ervin Industries, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Associates Program and student loans in the School of Business Administration 6,000
Federal-Mogul Corporation, Detroit
for support of the Computer and Information Science Program at The
University of Michigan-Dearborn                                          5,000


-139 -



January Meeting, 1988
First of America Bank-Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan -Replacement Hospital Component  5,000
Shirley Shanik Fleischer, East Hills, New York
for the Shanik-Fleischer Forum Series in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                     15,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for Employee Matching Gifts                                             48,854
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for manufacturing research in the School of Business Administration      5,000
Edna W. Freehling, Chicago, Illinois
pledge payment for the Norman Freehling Visiting Professorship in the
Humanities Institute, College of Literature, Science and the Arts      250,000
Fremont Area Foundation, Fremont
for cancer research m the Medical School                                20,000
Furth Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the Roy F. Proffitt Loan Fund in the Law School                     25,000
Gary Works, USX Corporation, Gary, Indiana
for manufacturing research in the School of Business Administration      5,000
Charles H. and Susanne-T. Gessner, New Canaan,
Connecticut; pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Campaign
for Michigan - Sclool of Business Administration Component               5,000
General Motors Corporation, Cadillac Motor Car
Division, Detroit; for manufacturing research in the School of Business
Administration                                                           5,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for the Robotics Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  15,000
Greater Flint Area Hospital Assembly, Flint
for The University of Michigan-Flint, Physical Therapy Program           8,750
Franklin K. Gregory, Grand Rapids
for the President's fund                                                 6,614
William J. Halliday, Jr., Grand Rapids
pledge payment for the William and Lois Halliday Scholarship in the
LawSchool                                                              20,000
Robert H. Hamilton, Tucson, Arizona
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  5,000
Ruth W. Harris, Ann Arbor
for the Ruth W. Harris Scholarship in the Division of Physical Education  10,000
Dr. and Mrs. James R. Hayward, Bonita Springs, Florida
for the Chalmers J. Lyons Endowed Chair in the School of Dentistry       9,500
Healthbank Corporation, Los Angeles, California
for fitness and sports research in the Division of Physical Education    5,000
Hershey Foods Corporation, Hershey, Pennsylvania
for Employee Matching Gifts                                              5,013
Jack D. and Marjorie E. Highi.eld, Grand Rapids
pledge payment for general endowment in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                     10,000
Charlotte Hine Estate
various corporate and utility common stocks; for hearing research
in the Medical School                                                   96,861
International Heart of Variety, New York, New York
for the International Heart Surgery Program in the Medical School       14,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Prmceton,New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health              106,107
JPI Transportation Products, Inc., Ann Arbor
for manufacturing research in the School of Business Administration      5,000
Max Kade Foundation, nc., New York, New York
for the Max Kade German House Fund in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                     5,000
Mrs. James A. Kennedy, Montecito, California
for support of the University Musical Society                           25,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh
for the Forney W. Clement Memorial for patient care activities,
The University of Michigan Hospitals                                     18,785
Knape & Vogt Manufacturing Company, Grand Rapids
for manufacturing research in the School of Business Administration      5,000
Thomas G. Kuzma, Cape Coral, Florida
for scholarships m the Department of Athletics                           5,000
Steven M. Lewin, Southfield
for political studies research in the Institute for Social Research      9,000


-140 -



January Meeting, 1988
Lilly Endowment;,Inc., Indianapolis Indiana
for Lilly Endowment Fellowships in the College of Pharmacy              30,000
Lincoln Health Care Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the M. B. Landers, Sr. Memorial Fund in the Medical School          15,000
Little Family Foundation, Providence, Rhode Island
for the Little Family Foundation Fellowship in the School of
Business Administration                                                  7,500
Little River Foundation, Plains, Virginia
for the H. E. Riggs Fellowship in the College of Engineering             5,000
William F. Maloney, Ann Arbor
for support of the College of Engineering                                5,000
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, New York, New York
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in
the School of Business Administration                                    5,000
Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan -Replacement Hospital Component  20,000
Marsh & McLennan Companes Inc. New York, New York
pledge payment for the Risk Management Professorship in the School
of Business Administration                                               5,000
Paul W. McCracken Ann Arbor
for the Paul W. McCracken Professorship in the School of Business Administration  10,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research                    19,670
Edwin E. Meader, Parchment
for the Campaign for Michigan - School of Music Component,
and for other support in the School of Music                            50,000
Mary Upjohn Meader, Parchment
for the Campaign for Michigan - School of Music Component               50,000
Meijer, Inc., GrandRapids
pledge payment or unrestricted support of the Campaign for Michigan
chool of Business Administration Component                             10,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York New York
for administrative internships in the University Library               125,000
Katherine M. Moynihan Estate
for unrestricted support of the Law School, in memory of Judge Joseph
A. Moynihan, Jr.                                                        26,000
Ray E. Newton, Jr Winnetka, Illinois
Berkshire Hfathaway, Inc., common stock; for support of the School of
Business Administration                                                 19,686
Robert E. Pell, Sun City, Arizona
Liberty Homes, and Citizens Utilities common stocks; for the
William A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business Administration   20,216
Mr. and Mrs. M. Harry Piper, Flint
NBD Bancorp, Inc., common stock; for the Wanda L. and M. Harry
Piper Fund, The University of Michigan-Flint                             5,788
PPG Industries, Inc., Allison Park, Pennsylvania
for manufacturing research in the School of Business Administration      5,000
Mr. and Mrs. George F.Raven, Los Altos, California
for the Class of 1938 Engineering fund                                   6,000
John Rich, Beverly Hills, California
pledge payment for the John Rich Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                    37,600
Rose Fund, Inc., New York, New York
pledge payments for gifts pending designation, and for unrestricted support
m the Campagn for Michigan                                              10,000
Stephen M. Ross, New York, New York
for the Real Estate Professorship in the School of Business Administration  100,000
Mabel E. Rugen, Ann Arbor
for the Ella E. McNeil Memorial Scholarship in the School of Nursing     5,000
Seabury Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
pledge payment for the Charles W. Seabury Endowed Fellowship in the
College of Architecture and Urban Planning                              10,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena, California
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration       10,000
Mabel E. Sherk, Seminole, Florida
for the Campaign for Michigan - Eye Center Component                     5,000
E. R. Squibb & Sons, Inc. Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy,
and for Employee Matching Gifts                                         11,565


-141 -



January Meeting, 1988
Edward C. and Hazel L. Stephenson Foundation, Grosse Pointe Woods
for the Edward C. and Hazel L. Stephenson Student Aid fund               6,000
Heliftut F. Stern, Ann Arbor
for the Helmut Stern Fund in the Museum of Art, and for the University
Musical Society                                                         10,720
Robert M. Stern, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the Institute of Public Policy Studies      19,065
Godfrey Dorr Stobbe Estate
for the Godfrey Dorr Stobbe Professorship in Pathology in the Medical
School                                                                 200,000
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, AA.S.R. Benevolent foundation of the
Northern Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington Massachusetts;
for the Scottish Rites Research Funds in the Medical School              6,181
Sycamore Fund, Chicago Illinois
Pledge payments for the School of Business Administration, and for
unrestricted endowment in the Campaign for Michigan                     10,500
W. David Tarver, Little Silver New Jersey
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering        7,000
E. Thurston Thieme, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the Medical School, the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts, and the University Musical Society    15,000
Dennis M. Tibble, Saginaw
pledge payment for the F. Bruce Fralick Endowed Professorship in the
Medical School                                                          75,000
Toledo Community Foundation Inc., Toledo Ohio
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - Replacement Hospital Component  5,300
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Ann Arbor
pledge payments for the Wiley T. Buchanan Research Fund and the
Norman F. Miller Chair in the Medical School the University Musical
Society, and for the Campaign for Michigan - Schools of Business
Administration and Music Components                                    315,000
Charles J. Trick, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                         5,000
Trinova Corporation, Maumee, Ohio
for manufacturing research in the School of Business Administration      5,000
Unisys Corporation, Detroit
for the Burroughs Curriculum Project in the School of Business
Administration, and for Employee Matching Gifts                        176,180
United States Pharmacopeial Convention, Inc., Rockville, Maryland
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                  6,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club, Lucile B. Conger Group, Ann Arbor
for Alumnae Council Scholarships                                         5,583
University of Michigan Alumnae Club Margaret Waterman Group, Ann Arbor
for Alumnae Council Scholarships                                        5,000
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for research in the School of Business Administration, the Medical
School and the College of Pharmacy, and for Employee Matching Gifts     16,300
John E. Warriner Trust
for the John E. Warriner Scholarships in the School of Education,
and the College of Literature, Science and the Arts                    17,335
Whitaker Foundation, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania
for research in the College of Engineering, and the Medical School      80,824
Leota M. Wilson Estate
for support of the Medical School                                      200,000
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Scholarships in the Law School                        50,000
The following gifts-in-kind were received:
AT&T Technology Systems, Lee's Summit, Missouri
An oil change cart and clean room clothing; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science
G. Fredric Bolling Southfield
A Flora Mace and Joey Kirkpatrick sculpture: "White Cloud," glass and slate;
for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Art Collection
Toby Citrin, Ann Arbor
A Compaq computer and an IBM printer; for the Department of Public Health
Policy and Administration


-142 -



January Meeting, 1988
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie Indiana
An Edward Everett, holograph copy of his address at the inaugural of Washington University (1857), and a
Julia Ward Howe autographed transcript of "Battle Hymn of the Republic" (1887); for the Clements Library
Margo Halstead, Ann Arbor
A Carillon playing barrel mechanism; for Burton Tower
Instron Corporation, Canton, Massachusetts
Testing equipment; for the Department of Materials Science and Engineering
Michigan Recovery Systems Inc., Romulus
An infrared spectropiotometer; for the Department of Environmental and Industrial Health
Mrs. Horace M. Miner, Ann Arbor
A collection of 33 bronze, silver and gold coins; for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology
Jean and Hilbert Sosin, Farmington Hills
A Christopher Ries sculpture, faceted crystal; for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Art Collection
Ninfa S. Springer Whitmore Lake
A twenty-foot Winnebago motor home; for the School of Nursing
Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids
Furniture; for the Interior Design Service
Personnel Actions
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective on dates indicated
Alfred E. Chang, M.D., Associate Professor of Surgery, January 18, 1988
James E. O'Neil, Ph.D., Professor of Geological Sciences, February 1, 1988
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1987
A. Lorris Betz, M.D. Ph.D., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
also apointed Professor of Surgery, and Professor of Neurology
Michael V. Johnston M.D., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
also appointed Professor of Neurology
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective February 1, 1988
Aaron Smith, Professor Emeritus of Education and Professor Emeritus of Communication,
reappointed to continue his work in the Speech and Hearing Science of the Medical School,
for a one-year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR
FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1988
Mason Barr, Jr., M.D., Professor in the Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
with tenure, Professor of Teratology, and also appointed Professor of Obstetrics
and Gynecology
John Griffiths Pedley, Professor of Classical Archaelogy and Greek, with tenure, appointed
Acting Director of the Francis W. Kelsey Museum of Ancient and Medieval Archaeology
Daniel T. Snyder Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, also appointed Interim Assistant
Dean for Clinical Affairs, School of Dentistry
The following committee appointments were approved:
Universit Musical Societ Board of Directors
Thomas Kaupr, for the period endin December 31, 1991, vice Douglas Crary, term expired
Judith Mau  for the period ending December 31, 1991, vice Lois U Stegeman, term expired
Robert Aldiich, D.D.S., for the period ending December 31, 1989, vice Howard S. Holmes, resigned


-143 -



January Meeting, 1988


Ann Arbor  mer Sumer Festival Board of Directors
Professor Arnold Aronson Cairman Department of Theatre and Drama
Dr. Jeffrey Colton, Clinical Assistant Professor, Dpartment of Otolaryngology, Medical School
Ruth Whitaker, Community Volunteer, Research Genealogist
Kenneth C. Fischer, Executive Director, University Musical Society
UM-Flint College ofArts and Sciences Executive Committee
Virgil Cope, for the period ending May 31,1988, vice Kathleen Lavoie, on sabbatical
Resolution to Grant Extended Leave of Absence to Vivian Shapiro
Regent Nielsen then moved that the following Regents' Resolution be adopted:
Whereas Vivian Shapiro is a valuable and respected member of the
faculty of The University of Michigan and has established a reputation in
her particular field of instruction that has benefited the people of the state
of Michigan; and
Whereas Vivian Shapiro has been a guiding light to the onward growth
and development of The University of Michigan, having represented this
institution in diverse capacities and before numerous groups and
constituencies; and
Whereas Vivian Shapiro will be on an extended leave from The
University of Michigan while pursuing other duties, all of which will further
embellish her background and instructional abilities;
Therefore Be It Resolved that the Regents of The University of
Michigan grant an extended leave to Vivian Shapiro from her instructional
position until May 31, 1991.
Regent Waters seconded the resolution. Regent Baker stated that he opposed
the motion, saying that he thought it would be a bad idea because the Shapiro's had
made a permanent move. He felt the Regents had suitably expressed their pleasure
with and affection for the Shapiros by giving Vivian a citation of appreciation and
Harold an honorary degree. He thinks that granting an extended leave of absence
when a senior official leaves the University would set a bad precedent, and that he
would vote against the resolution. Regent Varner said that she did not feel that
granting such a leave would be unusual, as Vivian Shapiro was a faculty member and it
was her understanding that she desired a leave since her husband had taken a job
elsewhere.
President Fleming cited several examples of cases in which faculty members had
been granted leaves from the University when it was not known whether or now they
would be coming back. Provost Duderstadt pointed out that the Regents had granted
emeritus status to the Shapiros in December, and there is a technical problem with
granting a leave of absence to a faculty member who holds emeritus status.
Regent Baker noted that in other cases in which people receive extended leave,
it is understood that their loyalties are with The University of Michigan, and in all
cases where it is extended, it is intended to be short-term support given to an absent


-144 -



January Meeting, 1988


faculty member. That is not the case here, and he believes it is over-reaching to try to
bend the policy of the University to this circumstance. President Fleming said that
there have been cases in which people have been granted leaves in which it was
unknown whether thet person would be coming back, but the leave was extended to
demonstrate the University's desire to have the person return.
Provost Duderstadt also noted that traditionally, this type of action goes through
the normal faculty channels and the units, and he felt that perhaps that would be the
wisest course for this as well. Regent Nielsen said that this is a Regents' Resolution,
and not designed to come from that channel, although he would not be opposed to
amending it to include the extension of the emeritus status afterwards. Regent Baker
moved a substitute motion that the matter be referred to the appropriate channels
(i.e., the school in which she was a faculty member) within the University for
discussion and evaluation. Regent Varner suggested that the matter be referred to the
Provost, rather than the academic unit. President Fleming advised that it would be
better to refer it back to the academic unit in order for the usual review to take place
and then have it brought back to the Regents next month.
Regent Nielsen stated that he had requested that this be done several months
ago, and it hadn't been done. Regent Baker reiterated his amended motion, that it be
referred through the appropriate channels. Regent Smith seconded that motion,
providing that Provost Duderstadt bring the matter back to the Regents at their next
meeting. Regent Brown suggested that the original motion be restated to the effect
that it is the desire of the Regents to grant the leave, but that the Regents wanted the
process to be done in the customary way, through the auspices of Provost Duderstadt.
Regent Baker said that that was not the intention of his amendment. Regent Nielsen
stated that he would have no objection to that. The question was called on Regent
Baker's amendment. It failed, with Regents Smith and Baker voting yes and Regents
Brown, Nielsen, Power, Varner, and Waters voting no.
Regent Brown moved to amend Regent Nielsen's original motion to state that it
is the desire of the Regents to do what is stated in that motion, and that it be referred
through the Provost to the School for that purpose, and be brought back to the
Regents at next month's meeting. Regent Nielsen supported that motion. Provost
Duderstadt noted that it is very important that two bases be touched: consultation
with the faculty in the unit, and resolution of the procedural difficulty created by the
Regents' action in December that gave emeritus status to Vivian Shapiro. Regent
Nielsen said that this should be done in the form of a comprehensive resolution
prepared for the Regents for action at next month's meeting. Regent Baker reiterated
his feelings that the Regents should not get involved in this type of issue. The faculty
is responsible for those types of decisions. President Fleming observed that even
though the resolution will state that the action is the desire of the Regents, if the
faculty were truly against it, they would say so.
Regent Power stated that he will vote for the resolution, because it is
appropriate in light of the long service Professor Shapiro has given to the institution
and of the fact that it is also something she hopes will happen. He cautioned,
however, that this type of action on the part of the Regents for something that is
within the jurisdiction of the faculty is unwise.
The vote was then taken, and the motion carried on a vote of 6 to 1, with Regent
Baker against and Regent Roach absent.


-145 -



January Meeting, 1988
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Linda M. Blum, MA., Sociology
Barry L. Goldman, Music
Stephen Lee, Ph.D., Chemistr
Terry L. Root, Ph.D., Natural Resources
Instructor
Sambasiva R. Aravapalli, M.B.B.S., Radiology
James E. Dillon, M.D., Psychiatry, December 1, 1987
Visiting Professor
Richard M. Elman, MA., English Language and Literature
Eugene A. Kurtz, MA., Music
Visitine Associate Professor
SusanG. Cole, Ph.D., Classical Studies
Peter Honeyman, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Kell F. J. Jonsson, Ph.D.. Radiology
Jihn E. Kim, Ph.D., Physics
Visiting Assistant Professor
Christopher M. enis Ph.D. Enlish Language and Literature
Vicki L. Mahaffey, Ph.D., English Language and Literature
Visiting Instructor
Marnix T. Van Holsbeeck, M.D., Radiology
Visiting Lecturer
LauraE. Hunter, B.Mus.Ed., Music
Adiunct Professor
Kenneth S. Albert, Ph.D., Pharmacy, July 1, 1987
Adiunct Assistant Professor
Holly Peters-Golden PhD., Anthropology
Marc S. Robinson, Ph.D., Economics
Adjunct Lecturer
Cyntha Adams, Ph.D., Psychology
Astrid B. Beck, Ph.D., Studies inReligion
Jayne A. Thorson, Ph.D  Residential College
Richard W. Tuckett, B.M.E., Theatre, UM-Tlint, September 1, 1987
Clinical Instructor I
Robert P. Coffey, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, July 1, 1987
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1987
Craig B. Thompson, Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, also appointed
Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Sabbatical
Richard L. Alfred, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, for a six-month period
Rashid Bashshur, Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure, for a six-month
period


-146 -



January Meeting, 1988
Leslie R. Bassett, Albert A. Stanley Distinguished University Professor of Music, with tenure,
for a six-month period
Sydney E. Bernard, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, for a six-month period
Alan G. Billings, Professor of Theatre and Drama, with tenure, for a six-month period
Harold J. Borin. Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning with tenure, for a six-month period
Michael Brentz, Professor of Physics, with tenure, for a six-month period
Dale E. Briggs, Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, for a six-month period
Donald A. Calahan, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
for a six-month period
Joseph A. Cepuran, Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, UM-Dearborn,
for a five-month period
Gerald E. Crane, Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, for a six-month period
Edmund H. Creeth, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, for a six-month period
Tom A. Croxton, Professor of SociafWork, with tenure, for a six-month period
David A. Daly, Associate Professor of Education and Speech Pathology, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Speech, without tenure, for a six-month period
0. Lynn Deniston, Associate Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration, with tenure,
for a six-month period
James F. Driscoll, Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, for a six-month period
Richard D. Duke Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, for a six-month period
Irving Feller Professor of Surgery, with tenure, September 1, 1987 for a five-monthperiod
Thomas N. lilson, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Flint, for a six-month period
Anthony H. Francis Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, for a six-month period
Bernard A. Galler, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
for a six-month period
Elaine K. Gazda, Director and Associate Curator of the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, also
Associate Professor of Classical Art and Archaeology, with tenure, for a seven-month period
Edith S. Gomberg Professor of Social Work, with tenure, for a six-month period
Donald H. Gray, Professor of Civil Engieerinmg, with tenure, for a six-month period
Henry C. Griffin, Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, for a six-month period
Roger F. Hackett, Professor of History, with tenure, for a six-month period
Walton M. Hancock, Associate Dean and Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with
tenure, also Professor of Health Services Management, without tenure, for a six-month period
Susan F. Harding, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, for a six-month period
Brian A. Hazlett, Professor of Zoology, with tenure for a six-month period
Sharon C. Herbert Associate Professor of Classica Archaeology, with tenure, also Associate
Curator of the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology for a six-month period
Saul H. Hymans, Professor of Economics, with tenure, also Professor of Statistics, without
tenure, for a six-month period
Joel Isaacson, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, for a six-month period
John E. Jackson, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, for a six-month period
Stanley J. Jacobs Professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Science, with tenure, Professor
of Applied Mechanics and Engineering Science, with tenure, for a six-month period
Joachim W:Janecke, Professor of Physics, with tenure, for a six-month period
Yale Kamisar Henry King Ramson Professor of Law with tenure, for a six-month period
Nikolaos D. Iatopodes, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, for a six-month period
Kathleen H. Lavoie, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, UM-Flint, for a six-month period
Paul R. Lehman, Associate Dean, Professor of Music and Education, with tenure, for a six-month
period
Emmet N. Leith, Schlumberger Professor in Engineering and Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, with tenure, for a six-month period
William R. D. Martin, Professor of Management with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for a five-month period
Florence I. Mazian, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for a
five-month period
Gayl D. Ness, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, Professor of Population Planning, without tenure, for
a six-month period
Fred Ormand, Professor of Music, with tenure, for a six-month period
R. Dwayne Overmeyer, Jr., Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, for a six-month period
John M. Powers, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, for a seven-month period
Lawrence B. Radine, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for a
five-month period
Michael J. Ryan, Professor of Marketing, with tenure, for a six-month period
Gary R. Saxonhouse, Professor of Economics, with tenure, for a six-month period
Carl E. Schneider, Professor of Law, with tenure, for a six-month period
Earl J. Schulze, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, for a five-month
period
Donald J. Sinta, Professor of Music, with tenure for a six-month period
E. Philip Soper Professor of Law, with tenure, for a six-month period
RonaldR. Stockton, Chairman and Professor of Political Science, with tenure, UM-Dearborn,
five-month period


-147 -



January Meeting, 1988
Dan J. Swift, Associate Professor of Psychology with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for a five-month period
Johannes Tall, Associate Professor of Music, UM-Flint, with tenure, for a six-month period
James A. Taren, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, for a six-month period
John C. VanDerVelde, Professor of Physics, with tenure for a six-month period
Emmanuel-George Vakalo, Assistant Professor of Architecture, for a six-month period
Keshav S. Varde, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for
a five-month period
Roger F. Verhey, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for a four-month period
Gabriel Weinrelch Professor of Physics, with tenure, for a six-month period
Peter K Westen, Professor of Law, with tenure, for a six-month period
James K. Wight Professor of Civil Engineering with tenure, for a six-month period
Lung-Chiang Wu, Chairman and Associate ProIessor of Computer Science, with tenure, UM-Flint,
for a six-month period
Frank P. Cas, Professor of Spanish, with tenure, for a six-month period
Russell A. Fraser, Austin Warren Professor of English, with tenure, English Language and
Literature, for a six-month period
Karl L. Hutterer, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, also Curator of Archaeology, for
a six-month period
William Ingram, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, for a six-month
period
Ingo Seidler, Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, for a five-month
period
Sheila Sundaram, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for a seven-month period
Scholarh Activi
WilliamH. Albright, Professor of Music, with tenure, for a six-month period
Susan A. Gelman, Assistant Professor of Psychology, for a three-month period
Philip H. Hanlon, Associate Professor of  athematics, with tenure, for a six-month period
Damel H. Levine, Professor of Political Science with tenure, for a six-month period
Richard L. Malvin, Professor of Physiology, wit tenure, for a three-month period
Extended Sick
Hsin-Hsin Liang, Lecturer, Asian Languages and Cultures, January 5, 1988 to January 16, 1988
Retirement Furlough
Deming B. Brown, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, December 31, 1988
William T. Carter Jr., Catherine B. HellerProfessor of Art, with tenure, December 31, 1988
John S. King, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, December 31, 1988
William J. Pierce Professor of Law, with tenure, May 31, 1988
Jacob M. Price, Professor of History, with tenure, May 31, 1988
Leave Without Sala
Robert F. Dernberger, Professor of Economics, with tenure, for a six-month period
David N. Freedman, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor of Biblical Studies and Professor of Near
Eastern Studies, with tenure, for a six-month period
Patricia Y. Gurin, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Helen Isaacson, Lecturer of Enlish Composition Board, for a six-month period
John Jonides, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, for a six-month period
Andrea L. Mattbies, Assistant Professor of Art History, UM-Dearborn, for a five-month period
James H. McIntosh, Associate Professor of English, with tenure, for a six-month period
Kathryn E. Stecke, Associate Professor of Operations Management, without tenure, September 1, 1987
through May 31 1988
Michael W. Traugott, Professor of Communication, without tenure, for a one-year period
William Zimmerman, IV, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, for a six-month period
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED
ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective December 31, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
WilliamiR. Harlan, Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education, with tenure,
and Professor of [nternal Medicine, without tenure, January 4,1988
Associate Professor
William W.O'Neill, Internal Medicine, November 30, 1987


-148 -



January Meeting, 1988
Assistant Professor
Caro. Bennet, Surgery, October 27, 1987
Grant M. Clowery, Accounting
Richard B. Kapuscinski, Civil Engineering
Henry D. Messer, Surgery, October 31, 1987
Adiunct Lecturer
Richard S. Ginsberg, Law
Clinical Professor
Jeffrey B. kier, Internal Medicine, October 15, 1987
Clinical Associate Professor
Neil Massoud, Pharmacy, November 15, 1987
Clinical Assistant Professor
Steven J. Card, Dentistry, August 31, 1987
Retirement Memoirs
Provost Duderstadt announced the retirement of six faculty members. The
Regents unanimously adopted the following memoirs:
Bettie Arthur, Professor of Psychology in the College of Literature, Science and
the Arts and in the Medical School, and Professor of Community Mental Health in the
School of Public Health, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1987, after
a productive career as a teacher, clinician, administrator and researcher.
A native of Michigan, Professor Arthur received her B.S. and M.A. degrees
from Wayne State University in 1947 and 1951, respectively. She was awarded the
M.S. degree in Psychology by The University of Michigan in 1953, and received her
Ph.D. and Masters of Public Health degrees from The University of Michigan in 1958
and 1971, respectively. Professor Arthur joined the faculty of The University of
Michigan in 1958. She accepted a joint appointment as assistant professor of
psychology in the Department of Psychology and assistant professor of psychology in
the Department of Psychiatry in 1964. She was promoted to associate professor of
psychology in both departments in 1968, and was appointed associate professor of
community mental health in 1971. In 1973, she was promoted to professor of
psychology in the Department of Psychology, professor of psychology in the
Department of Psychiatry, and professor of community mental health.
Throughout her career at Michigan, Professor Arthur has willingly assumed
numerous administrative roles and has carried out each responsibility with distinction.
After serving as acting chief psychologist of the Child Psychiatric Hospital on several
occasions between 1958 and 1969, Professor Arthur served as acting program director
for psychology at the Institute for the Study of Mental Retardation and Related
Disabilities, and as training director for psychology at Children's Psychiatric Hospital.
In 1981, she was appointed chief psychologist of the Department of Psychiatry.
Between 1984 and 1985, she served as interim director of the child and adolescent
psychiatry service.
Professor Arthur has also been an effective teacher, supervisor and mentor. She
has taught courses in psychodiagnostics and child psychopathology, chaired and been a
member of numerous doctoral committees, and developed successful seminars in
community consultation, ego psychology and psychodiagnostic assessment. Further,
the breadth and depth of her knowledge in child development and adjustment has had
a remarkable impact on her students and colleagues. Throughout her career, she has
demonstrated a scholarly maturity and a spirit of commitment to her profession that


-149 -



January Meeting, 1988


are truly rare.
The Regents now salute this distinguished member of the faculty for her
dedicated service by naming Bettie Arthur Professor Emeritus of Psychology in the
Department of Psychology, Professor Emeritus of Psychology in the Department of
Psychiatry and Professor Emeritus of Community Mental Health.
James N. Morgan, Professor of Economics in the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts, and Research Scientist, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social
Research, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1987.
Professor Morgan received his A.B. degree from Northwestern University
summa cum laude in 1939, and his A.M. and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard University
in 1941 and 1947, respectively. On the basis of outstanding ability and excellent
training, he was appointed to an assistant professorship at Brown University in 1947,
immediately after receiving his doctorate. Professor Morgan came to The University
of Michigan in 1949, as a postdoctoral fellow in economics. He was appointed
assistant program director at The University of Michigan's Survey Research Center in
1951. He was promoted to program director in 1956. In 1953, he received a joint
appointment as associate professor of economics, and was promoted to professor of
economics in 1958.
Over a career of almost 40 years at The University of Michigan, Professor
Morgan has produced a total of 30 books, 37 book chapters, and 25 journal articles.
The topics have covered consumer behavior; the distribution of income and wealth;
the dynamics of income change; economic survey methods; statistical methodology;
retirement, philanthropy, and mobility decisions; housing status; and productive
nonmarket activity. In 1975, these accomplishments led to his election to the National
Academy of Sciences. Professor Morgan is also a Fellow of the American Statistical
Association, the Gerontological Society of America, and the American Academy of
Arts and Sciences. He was awarded the Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award at
The University of Michigan in 1977.
Most economists develop simple theory and do their testing with available data.
Morgan's contributions have guided the profession, gratefully if often reluctantly, in
two directions. First, he has explored and illuminated, rather than ignored, the
complexity of human behavior patterns; his work has always displayed an awareness
of other social sciences and their important contributions. Second, he has
demonstrated repeatedly that the design and collection of data are an integral part of
economic analysis.
The Regents now salute this distinguished economist for his dedicated service to
knowledge, to economics, and to the Umversity by naming James N. Morgan Research
Scientist Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Economics.
James A. Nicholls, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 1987.
After receiving his B.S. degree from Wayne State University in 1950, Professor
Nicholls studied aeronautical engineering at The University of Michigan, where he
received his M.S. degree in 1951 and his Ph.D. degree in 1960. While pursuing his
graduate degree, he was an instructor and research engineer in the Department of
Aeronautical Engineering. Immediately after receiving the Ph.D. degree, he joined
the faculty as an associate professor. In 1964, he was promoted to professor. In 1966,
he was named head of the Gas Dynamics Laboratories, a position he held with great
distinction until 1985.
Professor Nicholls served as a multi-engine pilot in the Navy during World War
II, and saw combat duty in the North Pacific. He went from flying aircraft to studying
aeronautics, doing research on wind tunnels, aircraft icing, air cycle refrigeration,


-150 -



January Meeting, 1988


shock waves, detonation waves, arc heaters, rocket motor exhaust plumes and
combustion instability, engine emissions, combustors, and, lately, detonation of sprays
and dusts. He was the first person ever to achieve a standing detonation wave, a feat
for which he justly received much acclaim. He went on to gain an international
reputation for his research in detonations, explosions, and combustion instability,
which has led to his service on government committees, editorial boards, and as a
consultant to industry and government. In the course of his research career, Professor
Nicholls has published over 100 papers and has directed many Ph.D. candidates, who
are now carrying on this commitment to original research work.
In recognition of his outstanding contributions to teaching, research, and
service, in 1980 Professor Nicholls was given the Stephen S. Attwood Award, which is
the highest award conferred by the College of Engineering. In 1983, he was elected a
Fellow by the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. As a member of
the Combustion Institute, Professor Nicholls served as the chairman of the local
arrangements committee for the 20th International Symposium on Combustion, held
in Ann Arbor in 1984, which had over 1,100 participants.
Professor Nicholls has exhibited unstinting devotion to his colleagues and his
students. As head of the Gas Dynamics Laboratories, he was always willing to help
colleagues, especially junior faculty members, with scientific, administrative, or
financial problems, and to share contractual resources and contacts. He has been a
quiet, strong, supportive, creative influence in the College of Engineering.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator, researcher, and
administrator for his dedicated service by naming James A. Nicholls Professor
Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering.
Norman R. Scott, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1987.
Professor Scott obtained his B.S. and M.S. degrees in Electrical Engineering
from Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1941 and his Ph.D. degree in Electrical
Engineering from the University of Illinois in 1950. He served as an instructor and
assistant professor at the University of Illinois from 1946-50, and as an assistant
professor at the University of Connecticut from 1950-51. His appointment as an
assistant professor of electrical engineering at The University of Michigan in 1951 was
followed by promotion to associate professor in 1954 and professor in 1957.
In 1952, Professor Scott presented the first electrical engineering course in
computers, "Seminar in Computer Technology," and in a very real sense, his career has
spanned the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department's involvement
with computers up to the present day. During the years following 1952 he managed to
acquire computers for the instructional laboratories that he was developing, and
became recognized not only within the University, but also nationally, for his work on
digital computer logic and design.
Professor Scott served as associate dean of the College of Engineering from
1966-68. In 1968 he was appointed dean of engineering at The University of
Michigan-Dearborn, and by the end of his three-year term, he had helped establish a
new direction for the Dearborn campus. On two separate sabbatical leaves, Professor
Scott visited Hokkaido, Tohoku, Tsukuba, and Kyoto Universities in Japan. These
interactions with Japanese universities provided essential research work in the
CAD/CAM area and the advances in computer architecture. He also published
numerous journal articles in the area of computer architecture and made conference
presentations.
During his 36 years as a faculty member, Professor Scott demonstrated
outstanding capabilities as a teacher, as well as an understanding and willingness to
communicate with students. For many years he served as the faculty advisor to the


-151 -



January Meeting, 1988


IEEE student chapter and as the chief undergraduate program advisor in computer
engineering. His knowledge of theory and practice was tied together and presented in
a manner that instilled enthusiasm, interest, and a desire to excel. On four separate
occasions, Eta Kappa Nu, an honorary society for electrical engineers, selected
Professor Scott as Professor-of-the-Year for outstanding performance in teaching and
student-faculty relations. He served as a mentor to students and faculty alike, and his
presence will be missed.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by
naming Norman R. Scott Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science.
Donald H. Skadden, Arthur Young Professor of Accounting and Senior
Associate Dean in the School of Business Administration, will retire from active
faculty status as of January 31, 1988.
Professor Skadden received his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees from the
University of Illinois in 1948, 1949, and 1955, respectively. In addition, he is a certified
public accountant in the State of Illinois. From 1955 to 1973 he was on the faculty of
the University of Illinois as assistant professor, associate professor, and associate dean
in the College of Commerce and Business Administration. He visited The University
of Michigan as the Arthur Young Visiting Professor of Accounting in 1973-74. In
1974, he joined The University of Michigan Business School as the Arthur Young
Professor of Accounting. From 1975-79, he served as director of the Paton Accounting
Center and chairman of the accounting gaculty. In 1979, he accepted the position of
senior associate dean for academic affairs, the post from which he retires. Professor
Skadden has been appointed to the newly-created position of vice president for
taxation of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, in Washington,
D.C.
Throughout his academic career, Professor Skadden was very active in
professional organizations. Most notably, he served as president of the American
Accounting Association and president of the American Taxation Association. He
served on several key committees of the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants, and was a member of the Financial Accounting Standards Advisory
Council and the Commission on Taxpayer Compliance for the American Bar
Association. His research focused on tax accounting, most recently on the
underground economy and application of large data bases to tax research.
Throughout his academic career, he authored several books, and published numerous
articles in the field's most prestigious journals.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Donald H.
Skadden the Arthur Young Professor Emeritus of Accounting.
Arnold S. Tannenbaum, Professor of Psychology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Research Scientist, Survey Research Center, Institute for
Social Research, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1987.
Professor Tannenbaum served in the United States Navy from 1944-46,
receiving an honorable discharge with the rank of ensign, USNR. He received his
B.S.E.E. degree from Purdue University in 1945, his Ph.D. degree from Syracuse
University in 1954, and an honorary doctorate from the University of Gothenberg,
Sweden, in 1976.
In 1949, Professor Tannenbaum joined the staff of the organizational behavior
program at The University of Michigan's Institute for Social Research as a research
associate. His aim was to initiate a program of studies of the social psychology of
organizations. He was appointed assistant program director in 1958, program director
in 1960, and research scientist in 1973. In 1963, he received a joint appointment to


-152 -



January Meeting, 1988


associate professor of psychology. He was promoted to professor of psychology in
1967. Professor Tannenbaum has taught large numbers of undergraduates and
numerous doctoral candidates with notable success, helping to introduce the discipline
of organizational psychology.
Professor Tannenbaum's research, while varied in nature, persistently has
followed two main themes. One concerns the nature of power and control in formal
organizations and the consequences of alternative forms and distributions of control.
The second concerns hierarchy, and the understanding of how alternative forms and
degrees of hierarchy impact upon the members of organizations and on the
effectiveness of organizations. A notable feature of his research has been the pursuit
of cross-national and cross-cultural variations in the phenomena of control and
hierarchy. His studies in a dozen nations have been carried out through the formation
of networks of collaborating scholars representing several countries. The numerous
resulting publications stand as classics in collaborative research and in the
development of theories of formal organization.
Original, productive, known and respected internationally, Professor
Tannenbaum represents a very substantial research talent. His honors include the
Fulbright Fellowship, the Maxwell Fellowship in Social and Political Psychology, and
the German Marshall Fund Fellowship.
The Regents now salute this distinguished social scientist and teacher by naming
Arnold S. Tannenbaum Research Scientist Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of
Psychology.
Memorials
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees
On the recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Regents
approved the following amendments to degree lists:
School of Art
Bachelor of Fine Arts, December, 1986
add:        Sarah Firth Mac Millan
Bachelor of Fine Arts, December 1985
add:        Charles Phillip Reay, Jr.
Law School
Juris Doctor, May 16, 1987
add:         Gregory Wint Graessley
correct to show: Robert John Riley,
Juris Doctor cum laude, May 16, 1987


-153 -



January Meeting, 1988


Audited Financial Reports for WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-TV for FY ended June 30,
1987
The Regents adopted the public broadcasting audits prepared by the Office of
University Audits for internal control purposes and submission to the Corporation for
Public Broadcasting for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1987.
Operating Statements for WFUM-FM, WFUM-TV and WUOM/WVGR
The Regents received the operating statements for the University's broadcast
properties. These contain the same data as the audited financial report, but in a more
usable format for use as a management report.
Appointment of Auditors for 1987-88
The Regents approved the reappointment of Ernst & Whinney as auditors for
1987-88. This will be the second year of this engagement, which under normal
circumstances will be continued for a period of 7-9 years. In response to a question
from Regent Varner, Vice President Brinkerhoff stated that the requirement of
minority firm involvement in at least 10% of the activity across the full span of the
University audit requirements is included in the request for proposal. In fact, he noted
that the level of activity of the firm of Barrill Aldrich in the University audit will be
increased this year.
Lease of North Campus Land for a Senior Cooperative Housing Project
This item involves the lease of a 14-acre parcel of University land located south
of Glazier Way and east of the Veterans Administration Hospital, to a non-profit
corporation that is interested in providing cooperative housing for University faculty
and staff aged 55 or over. The group that has developed the proposal desires a sense
of whether the Regents would be willing to lease the property so that they could
conduct a survey of University staff and retirees to determine the interest. Vice
President Brinkerhoff said that the University is interested in the project because of
the high degree of utilization of its senior retired faculty members in teaching and
research, as well as the opportunity it would provide for gerontological studies. The
continuing close relationship between our retired faculty and our ongoing operations
thus gives the University a programmatic interest in this project.
Regent Baker stated that he is opposed to the project and views it as a form of
subsidized housing, since he believes the site is of immense value as a key entry point
to the University from the east. He feels lease of the land for this purpose at a modest
cost would, in effect, be giving it away. If the University wishes to get involved in this
type of project, there are alternative sites available that are not prime campus sites.
Regent Smith said that she is not opposed to the project, but feels that the alternative
site she suggested, at the intersection of Carpenter and Textile Roads, would be more
suitable. Vice President Brinkerhoff stated that the site suggested by Regent Smith is
too remote; the group wants to be close to University and city facilities and on a bus
line. From the University's standpoint, he continued, the proposed site is the best for
the project and the least desirable for other long-term uses.
Regent Power moved adoption of the proposal, and Regent Varner seconded the
motion. Regent Power described the issue as two-fold, having to do with the
University's approach to housing: 1) Should the University take a more active role in


-154 -



January Meeting, 1988


facilitating provision of housing for members of the University community or should
this be left to the private market? In this case, he feels that it is appropriate for the
University to be responsive to issues of its retired faculty members and should be
engaged in roviding these facilities. Regent Varner stated that she supports the
concept of the University's providing housing for retired faculty, but wondered how
the group could restrict its members to University retirees over 55 years of age. Vice
President Brinkerhoff noted that the cooperative will be privately financed, and is not
intended to be low-income.
Provost Duderstadt noted that providing housing for faculty is one of a number of
initiatives that the University may need to consider as it faces the challenge of
maintaining and enhancing the high quality of is faculty in the ity  facincreasingly
competitive marketplace.
Regent Nielsen stated that he supports the concept, but is concerned about the
location on North Campus, as well as the specific terms of the lease. He doesn't feel
that the Regents have received enough information to be able to make a decision at
this point. Regent Brown agreed, noting that if this proposal won't cost the University
anything, the University won't be providing anything. He also pointed out that there
has been no determination of the need for this type of housig, and that he cannot
make a decision on this particular proposal without seeing the lease. Not only does
the proposal under consideration not contain enough information on which to base a
decision, but the Regents have not considered the policy issue of whether it is
desirable to provide housing for faculty.
Regent Roach said that he doesn't view this project as any form of a subsidy,
since the cooperative would be leasing the property at a fair market rate, and the
University would be receiving income from a currently non-productive site. He noted
that this is not a case of the University providing housing; the University "would not
[be] spending a dime". Regent Baker reiterated that he views the project as a form of
subsidized housing, because he believes that the proposed site is one of the most
valuable parcels in the city. He feels that providing massive housing to people is not
the business of the University. The University's business is to educate people and to
provide housing for the students, teaching fellows, and junior faculty. Regent Nielsen
disagreed, saying that his comments had nothing to do with subsidized housing. He
feels that he cannot form an opinion without seeing the proposed lease.
Regent Power felt that assumptions of terms of the lease, appropriate use of the
land, subsidized housing, mortgaging the future of the University, etc. are overstating
the case. The proposal under consideration is only asking that the University facilitate
and cooperate with a proposal by a group of former and retired faculty and staff,
which is why he supports it. Sooner or later, he continued, the Board will have to
address the issue of what to do about housing. This particular issue, in his opinion,
does not get into that.
Regent Brown disagreed, and asked Vice President Brinkerhoff how the Board
could be assured that this project would forever remain exclusively for the use of
University personnel. That question needs to be answered before any action can be
taken on this particular proposal. Vice President Brinkerhoff stated that in the
University of Minnesota project, this issue is addressed via the terms of the lease of
the land.
Regent Baker moved to table the proposal until some of the questions that have


-155 -



January Meeting, 1988


been raised have been answered. Regent Brown seconded the motion. Regent Roach
pointed out that if the majority of the Board objected in principle to the concept, it
would be futile for the group to continue to pursue the matter. Regents Smith,
Nielsen, Baker, and Brown voted to table, Regents Roach, Varner, and Power voted
against, and Regent Waters abstained. The motion to table thus was approved.
Regent Nielsen then moved that the Board approve the concept of this type of
housing. Regent Power seconded this motion. Regent Baker objected that this type of
decision cannot be made without more quantitative data on which to base it. Regent
Nielsen restated his motion that the Regents give an indication to Vice President
Brinkerhoff by virtue of this motion that the Regents support the housing concept as
proposed, but not on this parcel of land and that no lease or tentative lease would be
approved until the Regents see it. Regent Roach moved to amend this motion to say
that subject to specific approval of the Regents of the site, of the economic terms and
of the restriction terms of any such lease agreement that we would consider a lease
with a private cooperative housing association of University land. President Fleming
restated this amendment as approving the concept of University support for housing
along these lines, subject to a presentation of the items enumerated by Regent Roach.
This was supported by Regent Power. In answer to a question, Regent Roach
reiterated that the purpose of his motion is that if the Regents agreed with the
economic terms of the lease (amount of money involved, length of lease, how it is to
be adjusted) and if they agreed that the terms of the lease about the housing being
restricted to staff, retirees, and faculty and whatever other terms are appropriate were
done to the Regents' satisfaction, that the Regents would be willing to lease University
property to such a group.
Regent Brown stated that the basic question in his mind is, Are we going to get
into this business one way or the other? If so, where are we going to do it, how many
units should be provided? He feels that the Regents have to do some basic thinking
about the whole question before they can allow one group to go ahead with its project.
Regent Power observed that some time ago, President Shapiro had proposed a
task force to look into the University's position with respect to housing in general. His
understanding of Regent Brown's proposal is that this type of policy task force is
needed to guide the specific actions the Board should take, rather than asking it to
react piecemeal to individual proposals. Regent Brown agreed that that would be a
start, but the study should also address potential locations, number of units needed,
financing, etc. Regent Baker reiterated his belief that Regent Nielsen's motion is for
subsidized housing on a broad scale. Regent Brown responded that he didn't think
that was an accurate statement of what was being proposed.
Regents Nielsen and Roach and then withdrew their motion and amendment,
respectively, and the seconders withdrew their seconds. Regent Nielsen then moved
that the proposal be sent back to staff for further planning, study, review, and
recommendations. That motion was seconded and passed by a vote of 7 to 1, with
Regent Baker abstaining.
Regent Power moved that the Regents invite the executive officers to bring to
them within three months a procedure by which or through which the University's
policy with respect to housing for members of the University community can be
examined so as to provide the Regents with a set of policy options which will guide
future activity. Regent Brown seconded the motion. Regent Power explained that
with the cooperative housing proposal, the Regents were being asked to react to a


-156 -



January Meeting, 1988


specific proposal in a policy vacuum, and that that invited micromanagement, which is
not the job of the Board of Regents. The ob f the Board of Regents is to debate and
examine policy options that are brought forward by management and then to either
adopt or reject them. His motion is intended to provide the executive officers with
time to devise a process by which this activity might be undertaken. Regent Baker
moved that Regent Power's motion be amended to add that specific attention be paid
to the quantitative aspects, both short and long-range, in such a proposal. Regent
Power accepted that as a friendly amendment. Regent Roach clarified his
understanding th if this motion were passed, in April the Regents would receive an
item which would contain a process by which the University could develop policies
concerning housing. The item would not address specific policies, only the procedures
by which policies will be developed. The motion carried, with Regents Brown, Roach,
Nielsen, Power, Smith, and Varner voting yes, and Regent Baker abstaining. Regent
Waters was absent for the vote.
Estate of Helen F. Weber, Real Estate
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents voted to
accept the offer of $8,000 from Carl and Roselyn Johnson for the N.E. 1/4 of the N.W.
1/4, Section 26, T41N, R25W, Harris Township, Menominee County, subject to the
University's reservation of the mineral rights.
Angell Hall Courtyard Computer Terminal and Laboratory Facility
This matter involves combining the previously approved Angell Hall Courtyard
Computer Terminal and Laboratory Facility and the installation of central air
conditioning equipment in Mason Hall with three smaller projects: adding a sprinkler
system to the area surrounding the computer facility, upgrading the electrical capacity
in the complex, and replacing the temporary handicapped ramp leading to the
"Fishbowl" with a permanent ramp. The Regents voted to approve the revised project
and budget of $3,875,000, and authorize award of the contract to the low bidders, TAI
Construction Management, Inc., Milan Plumbing and Heating, Inc., and Conti Electric
Inc.
Old Main Hospital Administration Building
The Regents authorized the demolition of the Old Main Hospital Administration
Building, to be done concurrently with the demolition of the rest of the Old Main
Hospital complex that had been previously approved by the Regents.
Expanded Telephone Service
This is a proposal to increase the 30,000-line capacity of the University's current
telephone system by a total of 15,056 lines, at a cost of $4,100,000 to Northern
Telecom for a second SL-100 system and a total project budget of $5,000,000. The
Regents authorized a purchase order to Northern Telecom, approved a project budget
of $5,000,000, and authorized financing arrangements. A specific financing plan will
be submitted to the Regents for approval at a subsequent date.
Ulrich Bookstore Easement
The Regents approved granting authority to execute an easement for an
emergency exit for Ulrich's Bookstore.


-157 -



January Meeting, 1988


Central Power Plant Gas Turbine and Heat Recovery System Energy Conservation
Project
the space now occupied by boiler No. 7. Of the estimated cost of $5,404,000,
$3,076,959 will come from a state-appropriated "oil overcharge" fund and the balance
from plant funds. The Regents unanimously approved the project.
Adoption of New Bylaw Section 9.03: Recommendations for Honorary Degrees
The Regents voted to adopt a new bylaw section 9.03: Recommendations for
Honorary Degrees. Regents Brown, Roach, Power, Smith, Varner, and Waters voted
in favor of the new bylaw, Regent Nielsen voted against, and Regent Baker abstained.
The text of the new bylaw is as follows:
Sec. 9.03: Recommendations for Honorarv Degrees
Recommendations for honorary degrees shall be made by an Honorary
Degrees Committee, which shall be constituted as follows:
1.  Seven members of the University Senate to be appointed by the
Board of Regents on recommendation of the President from a panel
nominated by the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs which
panel shall contain twice the number to be appointed. At least one of the
appointed Senate members shall be from The University of Michigan-Flint
or The University of Michigan-Dearborn. Appointed Senate members
shall serve for terms of three years each, so adjusted that at least two
vacancies shall occur each year.
2.  Two University alumni/ae to be appointed by the Board of
Regents on recommendation of the President from a panel nominated by
the Alumni Association which panel shall contain twice the number to be
appointed. Appointed alumni/ae members shall serve for terms of two
years each, so adjusted that one vacancy shall occur each year.
3.  Two students appointed by the Board of Regents on
recommendation of the President from a panel nominated by the Michigan
Student Assembly which panel shall contain twice the number to be
appointed. Appointed student members shall serve for terms of two years
each, so adjusted that on vacancy shall occur each year.
4.  The Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost, the Vice
President for Development and Communication, the Secretary of the
University, and the President.
5. The Dean of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies, who shall be chair.
Honorary degrees may be conferred by the Board of Regents at
Commencement, at University convocations, or at special convocations of
the several schools or colleges. Honorary degrees normally will be
conferred only when the honoree is present. On rare and unusual
occasions an honorary degree may be conferred in absentia.


-158 -



January Meeting, 1988


Proposed Interim Bylaws for the School of Dentistry
The Regents approved implementation of Interim Bylaws in the School of
Dentistry, effective January, 1988.
1988 Regents Meeting Schedule Change
The Regents approved changing the June 1988 meeting from June 23-24 to June
16-17.
Official Enrollment Count Date - Flint Campus
The Regents approved a corrected official enrollment count date for the Flint
campus. The official enrollment report for the University of Michigan- Flint shall be
prepared by the Office of the Registrar as of the 10th day of classes for a full term and
as of the 5th day of classes for the half terms, using consistent definitions and
procedures each term and year.
North Campus Commons Expansion
The Regents authorized award of the contract for this previously approved
project to the low bidders, John M. Olson Co., Boone & Darr, Inc., and Dunn Electric
Co., at a total cost of $4,200,000.
The meeting was then recessed until the Public Comments session at 4:00.
The meeting reconvened at 4:00 PM in the Anderson Room of the Michigan
Union for the Public Comments Session.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics
indicated: Alicia Lucksted, student and Felicia French, on gay rights; Carol Wayman,
Student, on Human Rights; Michael Phillips, member of MSA, on a Student Code;
Jonathan Rose, alumnus, who read a statement by Howard Simon, Executive Director
of the Michigan branch of the American Civil Liberties Union on a Student Code;
Lillien Waller, Carl Anderson, and Cathy Cohen, students, on racism.
The meeting was recessed at 5:00 PM.
Friday, January 15, 1988
The Regents met at 9:25 AM, in the Anderson Room of the Michigan Union.
Present were Interim President Fleming and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen,
Power, Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters. Provost Duderstadt, Vice President and
Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson
were also present, as were Chancellors Jenkins and Jones.
President Fleming stated that there were three items to be dealt with at this


-159 -



January Meeting, 1988


session: 1) A discussion of his draft policy paper on student discipline, "Discriminatory
Acts on the Part of Students", that had been released earlier in the week; 2) A
proposed amendment to the Regents' Bylaw Section 14.06 regarding discrimination; 3)
A discussion of the matter regarding remarks made by Peter Steiner, Dean of the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
Draft Policy Paper on Student Discipline
President Fleming began the discussion by saying he had decided to draft the
paper on student discipline  respoe re to persistent complaints on the part of students
and others that a) even though the University had policies against offensive,
discriminatory conduct, it would do nothing to enforce them, and b) the Regents
should amend their bylaw section on nondiscrimination to include "sexual orientation".
In trying to decide what we could do about those two specific complaints,
President Fleming noted that although there is a provision in the bylaws that provides
for the writing of a student conduct code (which, as President, he had been
instrumental in instituting), it has turned out that th that bylaw provision failed to
produce any results. He decided that another means he could get the ball rolling was
provided in the bylaw that enumerated presidential obligations and duties in
connection with the educational climate of the University. This would enable the
University to take the position thtat it was willing to do soeting about this issue.
The document is intended to say that there are two problems that the University
ought to do something about: 1) What we're going to do about discrimination, and 2)
Whether sexual orientation falls within the scope of disciplinary language. He
emphasized that the document states that an educational program is needed as part of
the package, and that he is prepared to ask the schools and colleges to institute
courses to accomplish this. He also recognizes that there are serious civil liberties
related to this issue, and cited a commendation he received in 1970 from the
American Civil Liberties Union for his devotion to the protection of civil liberties in
this state.
He emphasized that the draft was trying to be responsive to complaints about
the University's not enforcing its own policy, but that he would do nothing to abrogate
civil liberties. While he welcomes ideas and constructive proposals from any source
on campus as to how to solve the problem, he does intend to pursue the idea. It is
unlikely, he concluded, that penalties will be effective unless a climate can be
produced on campus in which all are prepared to say that this kind of conduct is
unacceptable conduct on a University campus.
Regent Baker praised the Interim President for setting the tone for a serious
discussion of the issue, and said that he deserves the support of the University
community. He noted that there has been a lessening of tolerance, respect, and
collegiality on campus over the past few years, leading him to be less in favor of a code
today than he was previously. Although he is supportive and sympathetic to Mr.
Fleming's efforts, he feels that people should be able to discuss ideas without fear of
retribution.
Regent Roach expressed agreement with President Fleming that a balance has
to be struck between the people who say that the University must take steps to prevent
harassment and those who say they oppose the institution of any rules regarding
nonacademic conduct. To his mind, the offensive behavior being described constitutes


-160 -



January Meeting, 1988


not merely offensive speech, which is a protected activity, but harassment, which
consists of thie intentional infliction of emotional offense. He also believes that the
discipline ought to be progressive, and that the policy could be considered as part of
the contract made with the University. If people wish to be part of the University, they
must agree with the contract.
Regent Varner expressed concern that the proposal suggests that discipline be
handed down by the individual schools and colleges, which could result in an uneven
application or determination of justice. President Fleming responded that it was for
that reason that he had suggested the same penalties campus-wide.
Regent Power observed that if standards are going to be set, it would be
hypocritical not to consider sanctions and scrupulous procedures by which
unacceptable behavior would be dealt with. We are obliged to consider sanctions if
we are serious in wanting to deal with the problem.
Regent Waters agreed with Regent Varner in being concerned with the notion
of enforcement by the deans of the schools and colleges. He believes that a more
centralized enforcement procedure, perhaps through the office of the Vice President
for Student Services, is necessary to ensure consistency across the campus. He stated
that there is no question in his mind about President Fleming's commitment to
affirmative action and nondiscrimination on campus, and that he will take all steps
necessary to handle any complaints of discrimination.
Following further discussion, President Fleming made some remarks regarding
the issue that had been raised surrounding remarks made several months earlier by
Dean Peter Steiner.
Dean Steiner Issue
President Fleming noted that Dean Steiner had been charged with making racist
remarks, and said that "the administration regrets very much that some of his remarks
have offended a great many people." However, the context of his speech was
otherwise very supportive of efforts toward fulfillment of minority objectives within
the college. He noted that he will be meeting with Provost Duderstadt, Vice Provost
Moody, and Dean Steiner to help find ways to improve relations between the College
and the minority community. He concluded that the Dean and the College have his
full support in their commitment to affirmative action and to a University community
which will achieve that.
Regent Baker observed that Dean Steiner's remarks had been made several
months ago in the context of a discussion of how to intensify minority recruitment and
retention efforts. He expressed his faith in Dean Steiner as a devoted, capable
administrator and scholar. He believes that people need to discipline themselves to
accept what people say in good faith and try to constructively work to solve problems.
Regent Roach said that he can understand how Dean Steiner's remarks could
have offended some people, and noted that he himself had been offended by Dean
Steiner in the past as well. However, he believes that Dean Steiner has worked
seriously over the years on recruitment and retention of minority faculty and students,
and doesn't see any malicious intent. He emphasized that the Regents sympathize
with the demands of UCAR and other students and are working toward the same
goals of increasing the numbers of minority students and faculty on campus. He urged


-161 -



January Meeting, 1988


that we all unify and stop fighting over how to achieve these goals.
Regent Varner stated that statements such as those made by Dean Steiner
impede the very atmosphere that we are trying to promote. She felt very
uncomfortable that the Dean of our largest school could make a statement like that,
and said that the issue of Blacks and education is a complex and multivariant problem.
She suggested that Dean Steiner hire a Black staff person to help him get a handle on
this problem and avoid further errors. She doesn't condemn the students for being
upset at this point in time, because they just became aware of the incident.
Regent Brown said that he wholeheartedly supports Regent Varner's comments,
and that the lesson to be learned is that administrators, deans, and other leaders must
be very sensitive to these concerns and to the language they use. He concluded that
we must intensify our efforts with respect to affirmative action and move ahead.
Sexual Orientation Bylaw Issue
President Fleming stated that since this issue has been debated for some time
and since a campus group was requesting that the Regents make a decision about
whether to add "sexual orientation" to the listing in the bylaws of traits that the
University would not discriminate against, it was appropriate at this time to bring the
matter before the board.
Regent Nielsen moved to amend the Regents' bylaws to include the term "sexual
orientation" in the section on discrimination, for the purposes of putting it on the
table. Regent Power seconded the motion.
Regent Baker said that his views on this issues had been stated during the
Regents meeting of March 1984, and he would not restate them at this time. He then
read the following statement:
It is my understanding that Mason Hall on the University of Michigan
campus is being used as a meeting place for members of the homosexual
community to perform sexual acts in the men's toilet rooms. It is my
understanding that Mason Hall is well-known in other cities as a place that
such liaisons can be easily established. It is my further understanding that
Mason Hall is identified in gay magazines as the place for travelling
homosexuals to go for action. These are not single actions, but rather,
blatant and ongoing liaisons. I request that the administration investigate
this matter to determine if the information is correct, and that the results
of this investigation be promptly reported to the Regents. In addition, I
ask the administration to determine the level of such liaison activity, if any,
in other University buildings, particularly the Michigan Union, and further,
what cooperation, if any, the University receives from the Ann Arbor
Police Department regarding the investigation of these incidents or the
removal of those individuals from University buildings, because some of
those activities may be unlawful under the Michigan statutes.
President Fleming said that the administration would comply with Regent
Baker's request, but asked whether the Regents as a board wished to have a formal
report come to them.
Regent Nielsen said he did not want Regent Baker's request to be incorporated


-162 -



January Meeting, 1988
into his motion. Regent Baker said that he would make a motion subsequent to the
motion currently on the table.
Regent Roach said that he is opposed to the motion to amend the bylaws
because the bylaw in question deals not only with nondiscrimination, but is the source
for two other things he feels are inappropriate with respect to sexual orientation. As a
mandate for affirmative action, he doesn't believe it was the intent of either the
administration or the advocates of the bylaw change that we establish affirmative
action programs related to sexual orientation. It is also the source of the obligations
we impose upon external third parties with whom the University conducts business.
This causes a problem, since some bodies, such as the armed forces, that we deal with,
do discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation. The President's 1984 policy on
sexual orientation expressly excludes external application.
According to Regent Brown, the section of the bylaws in question in effect states
the public policy of the state of Michigan, and all of the classifications included are
those that are required either by federal or state law. Thus the purpose of the bylaw is
to reflect the Regents' recognition of those matters that are required by the state and
the federal constitutions. He believes that whether or not to include "sexual
orientation" is a matter for the legislature to determine, not individual boards. He
doesn't believe that the bylaw should include anything other than what is required by
law.
Regent Waters stated that the bylaw doesn't contain everything currently
required by law. He asked that it be reviewed and made to conform to legal
requirements. Regent Varner noted that nondiscrimination regarding sexual
orientation is already University policy, and she did not see how putting it to the bylaw
would add to what is already in place.
The vote was then called on whether or not to add the term "sexual orientation"
to the Regents' bylaw on discrimination. It failed by a vote of 8 to 0.
Investigation of Homosexual Activity in University Buildings
Regent Baker then reintroduced his previously stated request for an
investigation of homosexual activities that allegedly are being carried out in University
buildings. President Fleming stated that Regent Baker would receive such a report on
an individual basis, and that he would entertain a motion if the Regents as a body
wished to receive a report. Regent Baker moved that the report he requested (of an
investigation of illegal activities involving homosexuals in University buildings and
other information as stated above) be directed to the Board of Regents, and Regent
Smith seconded the motion.
Regent Roach stated that allegations of criminal misconduct should be handled
by the Ann Arbor Police Department or the Washtenaw County Prosecutor's office,
not by the University. President Fleming noted problems with privacy regarding this
type of investigation. Regent Nielsen stated that he believes that any request for
information by a Regent should be honored. Discussion followed about how extensive
and expensive an investigation should be conducted to comply with requests of
individual regents.
Regent Baker said that "this is a public body, investigating a public issue, using
public money, on offenses which occur in a public building owned and controlled by


-163 -



January Meeting, 1988


The University of Michigan. It directly affects the image of the University..., the
public perception of the University..., to some degree the ability of the University to
maintain an authority over the use of its buildings, and in every way seems to meet the
test of a legitimate public inquiry."
Regent Waters moved to amend Regent Baker's motion to include an
investigation of racist and sexist acts that take place on campus and in University
buildings. Regent Varner seconded that motion. President Fleming noted that such
an investigation would involve a "major, major effort" which could not be undertaken
without substantial expenditure of funds and impairment of allkinds of nrelationships
on campus.
Regent Nielsen stated that he would not have objected to a brief report on the
issues raised in Regent Baker's original motion, but that Regent Water's amendment
would require an exhaustive effort. However, he would reluctantly agree with their
requests for an exhaustive report, because he feels that the Regents are entitled to
information on which to base decisions.
Regent Baker said he would withdraw his motion, because he felt that the
investigation suggested by Regent Waters' amendment would be counterproductive.
However, he stil continues he request for information. Regent Waters stated that he
continues his request as well. Regent Smith withdrew her second to Regent Baker's
motion. Regents Waters and Varner withdrew their amendment.
Following further discussion, it was decided that both Regents Baker and
Waters would receive brief summary reports of the information they required, and if
these were not satisfactory, they would request further action from the administration.
Sexual Orientation Policy
Regent Power moved that the Regents affirm and endorse President Shapiro's
March 1984 policy regarding sexual orientation. Regent Varner seconded the motion.
President Fleming explained that the policy had originally been issued with the
knowledge of the Regents. He had assumed it is therefore the policy of the University,
but felt uneasy unless he knew that the Regents understood and accepted that it is the
policy of the University. His understanding of this motion is that it reaffirms that it is,
ndeed, the policy of the University. Regent Roach explained that at the March 1984
meeting a motion had been made to oppose the policy, but that motion had failed for
lack of a second. (The entire discussion of this issue can be found on pages 992-995
and pages 1016-1019 of the July 1981-June 1984 volume of the Proceedings of the
Board of Regents.)
The question was called, and the motion carried, with Regents Brown, Roach,
Power, Smith, Varner, and Waters voting for and Regents Baker and Nielsen voting
against. President Shapiro's 1984 policy statement approved by the Regents states:
The University of Michigan believes that education and employment
decisions should be based on individuals' abilities and qualifications and
should not be based on irrelevant factors or personal characteristics which
have no connection with academic abilities or job performance.
Among the traditional factors which are generally "irrelevant" are race,
sex, religion and national origin. It is the policy of The University of


-164 -



January Meeting, 1988


Michigan that an individual's sexual orientation be treated in the same
manner. Such a policy ensures that only relevant factors are considered
and that equitable and consistent standards of conduct and performance
are applied.
Any University employee having a complaint of discrimination because
of sexual orientation should notify her/his immediate supervisor or the
Staff and Union Relations Office in the appropriate personnel service
center. A student should notify the Affirmative Action Coordinator in
her/his school or college or the Coordinator in the Office of the Vice
President for Student Services. At any time, a student or employee may
call the Affirmative Action Office or the Human Sexuality Office for
counseling and advice.
It should be noted that this policy does not apply to the University's
relationship with outside organizations, including the federal government,
the military, and ROTC.
Regent Power noted the absence of any television journalists at this session of
the Regents' Meeting and the presence of representatives of the print media, as
opposed to the situation that had occurred at the previous day's meeting which had
been widely covered by television journalists. In contrast to the emotional,
confrontational tone of the previous day's meeting, today the Regents had had "a
thoughtful, probing, reflective, and constructive discussion of the policy issues involved
in matters having to do with racism and sexual orientation." He said he was
disappointed, for journalistic reasons, that the television reporters and assignment
editors did not choose to cover this meeting, and that he admired that the print
journalists "attend, cover, reflect, and seek to match the level of concern and
reflectiveness of this debate in their own professional standards."
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned, to meet again on
February 18 and 19, 1988.
All votes were unanimous, unless stated otherwise. Transportation,
accommodation costs, and other expenses for the month of December, 1987 were
$3,009.31.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secret


-165 -



FEBRUARY MEETING, 1988


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, February 18, 1988
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith, Varner, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost
Duderstadt, and Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson were
also present, as were Chancellors Jenkins and Jones.
FY88-89 Budget Outlook
Provost Duderstadt began the meeting with a review of the status of the 1988-89
General Fund Budget. The University has requested an increase of $50.2 million in its
current state appropriation. This represents an 11% increase in the total General
Fund, which now stands at $444 million. He reviewed the projections of income from
the four sources of revenue that make up the General Fund: State appropriation,
student tuition and fees, indirect cost recovery, and investment income. The
governor's recommended 1.6% increase in state appropriation ($3.6 million) for the
Ann Arbor campus will amount to essentially a zero increase for the 1988-89 fiscal
year, when restoration of this year's Executive Order cut and reconciliation of the state
and University fiscal years are taken into account. The University is budgeting a 10%
increase ($3.0 million) in indirect cost recovery, but is expecting no major increase in
interest income. Thus, the only avenue left for the University to be able to meet its
bare minimum operating needs will be a significant increase in tuition and fees.
Provost Duderstadt also noted the steady shift away from state support over the
past few years. Two years ago, tuition and room and board payments began to exceed
the level of the state appropriation, and at the current rate, within two-three years,
federal support will exceed state support. The growth in state appropriations over the
past two years, he pointed out, has simply not kept pace with the very real needs of the
University. The University's ability to continue to serve the state through its
educational, research, and public service activities will be increasingly determined by
its capacity to attract strong support from the federal and private sectors. The degree
to which it is successful in this will depend on maintaining the high quality of the
University's teaching and research.
Regent Roach pointed out that state support has dropped to less than 50% of
the General Fund from the 73% it had been previously. He feels that the only
solution will be to increase taxes. Regent Baker noted that the state has a large
number of priorities, and that higher education does not have a very effective
constituency due to the transient nature of its constituents. He suggested that we
should be very cautious in suggesting a tax increase without looking both internally
and externally for additional funds.
Family Housing
Robert Hughes, Director of University Housing, gave a slide presentation
describing the University's family housing population and programs. The University of
Michigan operates the second largest university-owned apartment operation in the


-167 -



February Meeting, 1988


United States, consisting of over 6000 people in 1700 apartment units. 53% of the
residents are members of minority groups, and there are over 900 families with
children. He then gave a visual and verbal description of the large array of programs
that the University provides to serve this population. Following that, he introduced
University Planner Fred Mayer, who described plans for the proposed Community
Center Building, to be built on North Campus at the intersection of Hubbard Road
and McIntyre Drive.
Mr. Hughes noted that the proposed Community Center Building has broad
support from Family Housing residents, the Resident's Council, and the Family
Housing Rate Committee. The large multipurpose rooms it will provide will solve the
two major problems in the area of family housing: need for a large meeting space that
can be used for a variety of group functions, and a day care facility to serve the large
number of families with children. The day care center, he pointed out, will be
self-supporting for operations.
Regent Baker expressed concern that there has been a lack of coordination in
the University's attempts to meet the needs for day care. He would like to see a more
coordinated approach that would contain a comprehensive analysis of long-term needs
and costs. Regents Roach and Power noted that there is substantial support for the
particular program under consideration by the people who would be served, and a
willingness on their part to pay the cost. Regent Roach also pointed out that the
primary purpose of the facily will be as a community center, and that the overall
issue of child care is separate. Regent Brown suggested that the issue of child care be
examined at some point in the future.
Residence Hall Rates
Mr. Hughes pointed out that The University of Michigan is the only university
housing operation in the United States to utilize student/staff rate committees, and
that this year's committees were unanimous in recommending increases of 5.6% for
residence halls and 5.8% for family housing. University of Michigan rates are still
significantly lower than those of most of its peer public and private institutions, and in
line with those of other Big Ten institutions. He described the extensive residence hall
computer program, which has drawn interest from universities across the United
States, and then showed slides of dining room renovations in three residence halls
(South Quad, Betsy Barbour, and Stockwell) that won major interior design awards
last year.
Master of Physical Therapy Program at UM-Flint
Chancellor Jones and Richard Darnell, Director of the Physical Therapy
Program at UM-Flint, responded to questions from the Regents regarding the
proposal to replace the current B.S. in Physical Therapy program with a Master of
Physical Therapy program. Professor Darnell explained that it has always been the
intention to undertake this change in the physical therapy program, and that each of
the four other colleges and universities in the state that have degree programs in
physical therapy are moving in the same direction.
Minutes
The Regents approved the minutes of the meeting of January 14 and 15, 1988.


-168 -



February Meeting, 1988


Reports
Vice President Brinkerhoff submitted the monthly report on investment
transactions and the University Endowment Fund Quarterly Inventory as of 12/31/87.
He also submitted reports on plant extension, litigation, and Personnel/Labor
relations. Regarding the litigation report, Regent Smith asked for more details on the
new case in which Health Alliance Plan has sued the University. Regent Roach
responded to her question. The Regents also reviewed a rereport from the Office of
Student Services.
The remainder of the reports were filed by Vice President Wilson. These
included the report of Awards Received tht for Research and Other Academic Activities,
October 17-December 4, 1987, Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and
Sponsored Projects, a report on research volume statistics, and the Report of the
Biological Research Review Committee, which monitors recombinant DNA research.
Regent Baker asked what level of recombinant DNA research safety precaution was
undertaken at The University of Michigan as required under existing national research
guidelines. Vice President Wilson pointed out that many of the initial concerns
surrounding recombinant DNA research have turned out to be unfounded, and the
original criticism of it has largely subsided. Regent Nielsen complemented Vice
President Wilson on the significant increase in research volume that has occurred
under her direction.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted his monthly report of gifts and grants. These
were accepted with thanks and in accordance with their terms and conditions.
AA.R.P. Andrus Foundation, Long Beach, California
for research in the Institute of Gerontology                           49,249
Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School, and the College of Pharmacy        16,000
Robert B. Aikens, Troy
for unrestricted support of the Law School                             25,000
Judith Dow Alexander, Ann Arbor
Dow Chemical Company common stock; pledge payment for the Campaign
for Michigan - School of Music Component                                5,381
American Cancer Society, Inc.,  New York, New York
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health, and in the
College of Pharmacy                                                    83,396
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.
for research in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science and
the Arts                                                               46,250
American Diabetes Association, Michigan Affiliate, Inc., Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                      6,275
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                     53,398
American Hoechst Corporation, Somerville, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund  50,500
American Lung Association New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                     35,750
Anonymous Donor
for Chinese Studies support in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  20,000
Anonymous Donor
pledge payment for the Dean William Haber Scholarship in the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts                                    10,000
Anonymous Donor
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the
School of Business Administration                                       5,000


-169 -



February Meeting, 1988


Apple Computer, Inc., Cupertino, California
for cognitive research in the College of Literature Science and the Arts  20,000
Alfred C. Arbogast and Ersa S. Arbogast Foundation, Elkhart, Indiana
for research in the Medical School                                        7,500
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                                       29,083
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                        14,396
Asda Foundation, New York, New York
for chemotherapy research in the Medical School                          150,000
W. Timothy Baetz, Chicago, Illinois
Regal Beloit Corporation common stock; pledge payment for unrestricted
support of the Law School                                                 5,148
Baker & Hostetler Founders Trust, Cleveland, Ohio
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Law School                 10,000
Dr. and Mrs. Daniel R. Balbach, Ann Arbor
for gifts pending desination in the Campaign for Michigan                 10,000
A. H. Belo Corporation Dallas Texas
pledge payment for the Journalists in Residence Endowment in the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts                                       6,000
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for support of the Law School                                            25,000
Betz Foundry, Inc. Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for the Richard A.
Flinn Scholarship and other support in the College of Engineering        10,000
Maurice S. and Linda Binkow, Detroit
Automatic Data Processing common stock; for the Maurice and Linda Binkow
Funds in the School of Music, and for unrestricted support of the Law School  5,526
Stephen J. Bloom Charitable Trust, Clarendon Hills Illinois
pledge payment for support of the School of Business Administration       5,000
Blue Cross7Blue Shield of Michigan, Detroit
pledge payments for the Campaign for Michigan - School of Business
Admnimstration Component                                                 39,000
Bonisteel Foundation, East Grand Rapids
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration, and for support of the Bentley Library                   40,000
Hubert J. Brandt, Lido Beach, New York
for Judaic Studies in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts    10,000
Gerald Bright Trust, Birmingham
for support of the Law School and pledge payment for scholarships in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts                              26,000
Mr. and Mrs. Donald S. Brownlee, Bloomfield Hills
for scholarships and for the swimming and diving facility in the
Department of Athletics                                                  11,500
Buhr Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support of Wilmot House, The University of Michigan Hospitals         5,500
Mary Lou Butcher, Bloomfield
for the Mary Lou Butcher Equal Opportunity Award in Journalism,
in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts                       10,000
Mildred Butler, Sherwood Oregon
American Medical International, Inc., common stock; pledge payment
for The University of Michigan Annual fund                                7,350
James W. and Gladys R. Callison, Dunwoody, Georgia
for support of the Law School, and pledge payment for the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts                                      20,500
Kathryn L. Carl, Flint
for The University of Michigan-Flint, College of Arts and Sciences        7,800
Henry L. Caulkins, Jr., Cheboygan
NBD Bancorp, Inc., common stock and cash gift of $1,000; pledge payments for
the Department of Athletics, and for unrestricted support of the Campaign for
Michigan                                                                  7,575
Centocor, Inc., Malvern, Pennsylvania
for pharmacology research in the Medical School                          20,000
Chase Manhattan Bank, New York, New York
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Campaign for Michigan School
of Business Administration Component, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund  20,500
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea
for special exhibitions in the Museum of Art                             25,000
Edward Cherney Irrevocable Charitable Living Trust,
Southfield; for women's scholarships in the Department of Athletics       5,000


-170 -



February Meeting, 1988


Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for chemical research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  30,000
Chicago Tribune Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
pledge payment for the Journalists in Residence Endowment in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund  25,250
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                      32,266
Donald S. Chisholm, Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Joseph Savarino Memorial Fund in The School of Music  5,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Campaign for Michigan
School of Business Administration Component                             25,000
Ciba-Geigy Corporation, Summit, New Jersey
for fellowships in the Medical School                                   17,000
William J. Conlin, Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - School of Music Component  5,000
William H. Conner, Shaker Heights, Ohio
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Law School fund           5,200
Harold Cooper, Beverly Hills, California
pledge payment for the Hal Cooper Scholarship in the School of Music    10,000
Al and Margaret Coudron, Ypsilanti
for the Coudron Acquisition Fund in the Museum of Art                    5,000
Council for Tobacco Research - U.SA., Inc., New York,
New York; for pathology research in the Medical School                  17,500
Cummins Engine Company, Enc., Columbus, Indiana
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration      5,000
Louis B. Cushman, Houston, Texas
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Campaign for Michigan
School of Business Administration Com onent                             10,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                      8,920
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                      34,329
Helen L. DeRoy Foundation Detroit
for the Helen DeRoy Visiting Professorship in the Law School            20,000
DeRoy Testamentary Foundation, Detroit
for the Helen DeRoy Visiting Professorship in the Law School            30,000
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
pledge payment for the Minority Program in the College of Engineering    5,000
Charles C. and Joanne Dickinson, Wichita Falls, Texas
for the Studies in Religion Program in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                    10,000
Dickinson, Wright, Moon, Van Dusen & Freeman, Detroit
pledge payment for the Institute for Continuing Legal Education in
the Law School                                                           8,000
William T. Dobson Trust, Ann Arbor
pledge payments for the Department of Athletics, the School of
Business Administration, the College of Literature, Science and the
Arts, and for the Campagn for Michigan - Chemical Sciences Component    12,000
Dr. and Mrs. Steven M. Donn, Ann Arbor
for newborn services support in the Medical School                      5,000
Douglas & Lomason Company,Tarmington Hills
for gifts pending designation in tie Campaign for Michigan
School of Business Administration Component                             7,500
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in
the School of Business Administration, for research in the School
of Public Health, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund                  36,530
Herbert H. and Grace A. Dow Foundation, Midland
pledge payment for the Wiley T. Buchanan Research Fund in the Medical School  50,000
John C. Dowd, Lakewood, Ohio
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Law School                5,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                        14,925
Murray J. Feiwell, Carmel, Iniiana
for unrestricted support of the Law School                               5,000
Oscar H. Feldman, Huntingon Woods
pledge payment for the Oscar H. Feldman Scholarship in the School
of Business Administration                                              20,000


-171 -



February Meeting, 1988


Jack N. Fingersh, Overland Park, Kansas
pledge payment for support of the Law School                             12,500
First of America Bank-Ann Arbor
for the Joseph Savarino Memorial Fund in the School of Music             5,000
Frederick J. Fischer Estate
for pediatric surgery support in the Medical School                     315,358
Frances B. Fisher, Brookside, New Jersey
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the School of Music            5,000
Ford Foundation, New York New York
for Russian and East European Studies in the College of Literature Science and
the Arts, and forpopulation planning research in the School of Public Health  12,300
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
campaign for Michigan and other payments for the School of Business
Administration The University of Michigan-Dearborn, and the
Replacement Hospital Project                                            322,000
Edna W. Freehling, Chicago, Illinois
pledge payment for the Norman Freehling Visiting Professorship in
Humanties, College of Literature, Science and the Arts                  250,000
Peter S. Fuss, Glen Ellyn, Illinois
Tellabs Inc., common stock; for support of the College of Engineering    10,453
Dr. and Mrs. Otto Gago, Ann Arbor
for support of the Museum of Art and the Women's Glee Club, and
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - Replacement Hospital Component  6,150
Wood M. Geist Trust, Detroit
ledge payment for the Wood and Rosemary Geist Scholarship in the
ollege of Literature, Science and the Arts, and for support of the
Men's Glee Club                                                         24,680
General Electric Company, Research and Development,
Schenectady, New York; for support of the College of Engineering         7,500
General Electric Company, Schenectaidy, New York
for the manufacturing forum in the School of Business Administration,
and for macromolecular research in the Institute of Science and Technology  15,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
campaign for Michigan and other pledge payments for the School of
Business Administration, and the College of Engineering                 285,000
Robert M. Ginn, Shaker Heights, Ohio
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - College of Engineering
Component and for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan     6,000
Victor Ginsberg, Shelter Island, New York
pledge payment for Judaic Studies Development in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                         5,000
Girobank, PLC, Merseyside, England
for pharmacology research in the Medical School                          10,000
Edward Goldstein, Fullerton, California
for unrestricted support of the Law School                               5,000
W. L. Gore & Associates, Inc. Flagstaff, Arizona
for research in the Medical School                                       15,000
William T. Gossett, Birmingham
Lehman Investors Fund, Inc., common stock; for unrestricted support
of the Law School                                                        19,227
Jeffry N. Grabel, Rockville Centre, New York
for scholarships in the Law School                                       5,000
William A. Gracie, Jr., Ann Arbor
CNA Financial Corporation common stock; for the William A. Gracie, Jr.
Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School  17,063
Lazar J. Greenfield, Ann Arbor
for surgery support in the Medical School                                5,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford Connecticut
for minority scholarships in the School of Business Administration       5,000
Bernard E. Harkins Estate
for the Clements Library Associates Program                              5,000
Elizabeth Hait Hart, Simsbury, Connecticut
for unrestricted support of the Schools of Dentistry and Education,
and the College ofLiterature, Science and the Arts                       5,100
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                       7,500
Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd A. Heneveld, Alto
Herman Miller, Inc., common stock; for gifts pending designation
in the Campaign for Michigan                                            18,544
Keith S. Henley, Anm Arbor
for the Keith S. Henley Young Investigator's Endowment Fund, in the
Medical School                                                           10,000
-172 -



February Meeting, 1988


Carl J. Herzog Foundation Inc, Stamford, Connecticut
for theUdo J. Wile Visiting Professorship in the Medical School          6,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park,
California; for social organization research in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                        30,000
William A. Hiltner, Ann Arbor
for the Ruth and Albert Hiltner Fund in Astronomy, College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                     6,000
Charlotte Hine Estate
American Information Technologies Corporation common stock, and cash
gift of $10,000; for hearing research in the Medical School             19,255
Hitachi Limited, Takasaki Japan
for the Robotics Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  15,000
William N. Hubbard, Jr., Hickory Corers
Upjohn Company common stock; pledge payment for the Campaign for
Michigan - Replacement Hospital Component                                9,879
David A. Hughes, Omaha, Nebraska
for thoracic surgery research fellowships in the Medical School         10,000
Charles S. and Ann S. Hutchins, North Palm Beach
Florida; for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan      8,000
Mr. and Mrs. James W. Hyde, Paris, Kentucky
for the Class of 1904 Scholarship in the Law School, in memory of
Emory J. Hyde                                                            5,000
International Business Machines Corporation, New Haven, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                        23,501
Orpha L. Irwin Kalamazoo
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School                          5,000
Michael J. Jandernoa, Grand Rapids
pledge payments for unrestricted support of the School of Business
Administration, and of the Campaign for Michigan                         5,500
Janssen Pharmaceutica, Piscataway, New Jersey
for pharmacology research in the Medical School                         30,000
Japanese Society of Detroit, Southfield
for Japanese Studies support in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  16,000
Shirley Z. Johnson, Washington, D.C.
for unrestricted support of the Law School                               5,000
Johnson & Johnson Products, Inc., New Brunswick, New Jersey, for
cumulative trauma disorders research in the College of Engineering      10,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. Princeton, New Jersey
for gastroenterology research, and for the Minority Faculty Development
Program in the Medical School                                           25,275
Harry H. Jones, Califan, New Jersey
for support of the School of Business Administration                     10,000
Alfred Jurzkowski Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for Russian and East European studies research in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                         6,500
Mitchell I. and Zofia Kafarski, Bloomfield Hills
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan -Replacement Hospital Component  14,000
Richard Katcher Pepper Pike Ohio
for the swlmming and diving facility and scholarships in the
Department of Athletics, and pledge payment for the Richard Katcher
Student Loan Fund in the Law School                                     14,000
Karl G. Kempf, Myrtle Beach, South Carolina
Thomas and Betts Corporation common stock; for scholarships in the
Department of Athletics, and for the Michigan Alumni Fund Endowment     46,469
Milton G.Kendrick, Ann Arbor
for the Milton and Josephine Kendrick Award in Marketing, School of
Business Administration                                                  5,000
Mr. and Mrs. Ted Kennedy, Jr. Ann Arbor
for fellowships and scholarships in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies                                                        20,000
K.F.M. Charitable, Ann Arbor
for support of the University Musical Society                            10,000
Harold E. and Virginia L. Kirk, AIlen Park
for the Timothy Kirk Fund in the Medical School, and for the
Campaign for Michigan - Burn Center Component                           65,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh
for the Forney W. Clement Memorial for patient care activities,
The University of Michigan Hospitals                                     9,393


-173 -



February Meeting, 1988


Sam Kravitz, East Grand Rapids
for the Grand RapidsFellowship in Judaic Studies, College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                          5,000
Suzanne R. Lehmann, New York, New York
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                      5,000
Harvey E. Lemmen, Grand Rapids
cash gift for the Harvey E. Lemmen Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the
ultimate benefit of the School of Business Administration                10,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                       23,705
Eva M. Likova, New York, New York
for the Eva Likova Scholarship in the School of Music                    10,000
Paul C. Linell, East Lansing
for the F. Bruce Fralick Endowed Professorship in the Medical School      5,000
Joseph A. Livingston, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Penn Central common stock; for the J. R. Livingston Junior Faculty
Economics Research Fund and other support in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts; and for the Clements Library, the President's
Fund, and The University of Michigan Club of Philadelphia Scholarship     5,952
Nancy Newton Loeb Trust
for the Nancy Newton Loeb Funds in the Medical School                    32,082
Walter Lorenz, Jacksonville Florida
pledge payment for the Chalmers J. Lyons Endowed Chair in the School
of Dentistry                                                              5,000
Walter Lorenz Surgical Instruments Inc. Jacksonville,
Florida; pledge payment for the Chalmers J. Lyons Endowed Chair in
the School otDentistry                                                    5,000
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc. New York, New York
for the History of Art Fellowship, and for Southeast Asian Studies
support in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts              234,000
Robert P. Luciano, New Vernon, New Jersey
Schering-Plough Corporation common stock; for the Robert P. Luciano
Endowment in the Law School                                              18,911
Dorothy S. Lundahl Trust, Moline, Illinois
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan -School of Business
Admimnistration Component                                                 5,725
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation,
Chicago, Illinois; for political studies research in the Institute
for Social Research                                                     500,000
Mr. and Mrs. Donald H. Malloure, Birmingham
Bethlehem Steel common stock; for support of the Department of
Athletics, the College of Engineering and the Museum of Art              13,688
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School and in the Center
for Human Growth and Development                                         59,750
Mazda Distributors Great Lakes, Grand Rapids
for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan -
School ot Business Administration Component                              10,000
Daniel P. McCaigue, Ocean City, Maryland
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration  15,000
Curtis W. McGraw Foundation, Princeton New Jersey
for the Arthur Webster Memorial Endowment m the Law School               10,000
Mrs. Lester A. McIntosh Boca Raton, Florida
for the Mildred McIntosh Voice Scholarship in the School of Music        10,000
Neil McKay, Geneva, Illinois
pledge payment for scholarships in the Law School                         5,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research fund                 5,170
Edwin E. and Mary U. Meader, Parchment
for the Campaign for Michigan - Chemical Sciences Component             200,000
George Meader, Washingon, D.C.
for support of the Law School, the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts, and the Michigan Historical Collections                     6,000
MichCon Foundation, Detroit
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Campaign for Michigan
School of usiness Administration Component                               15,000
Michigan Eye-Bank and Transplantation Center, Ann Arbor
for the Michigan Eye-Bank Fund, The University of Michigan Hospitals     12,000
Michigan Eye-BankResearch Center Capital Fund Campaign,
Ann Arbor; pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - Eye Center Component 50,000
-174 -



February Meeting, 1988


Michigan Women's Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support of the Center for the Continuing Education of Women           8,500
Miller & Chevalier Charitable Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for alumni scholarships in the Law School                                 5,000
Ivalita Miner, Sarasota, Florida
pledge payment for the Program in Ethical Values in the School of Education  5,000
Motor ehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States Inc., Detroit
for highway safety research in the Institute of Science and Technology  239,314
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for transportation research in the Institute of Science and Technology, and
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan Replacement Hospital Component  405,000
Mary E. Mulholland Estate
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                    5,065
John S. and Suzanne C. Munn, South Bend Indiana
for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan               65,000
Thelma Fox Murray Trust
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                   12,000
Dr. and Mrs. William K. Najjar, Grand Rapids
Johnson & Johnson common stock pledge Payment for the William K.
and Mary Anne Najjar Endowed Chair i tnie School of Dentistry            98,906
National Dairy Promotion and Research Board, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the Medical School                                       29,095
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                       11,954
Leonard and Eileen Newman Grand Rapids
for the Grand Rapids Fellowship n Judaic Studies in the College
of Literature Science and the Arts                                        5,000
Gail B. Odgers, Mill Valley, California
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the School of Art              5,000
Mrs. Wilfred C. Oestrike, Indianapolis, Indiana
for support of the College of Engineering, in memory of Wilfred Oestrike  10,000
John J. O'Leary, Green Valley, Arizona
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science and
the Arts and the Medical School                                           5,000
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Olinz Hickory Corners
for economics support in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  5,000
Bertha L. Olsen Estate
for unrestricted support of the School of Dentistry                      20,000
Osterman's, Inc., Toledo, Ohio
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Campaign for Michigan      5,000
Pacific Coast Cement Corporation, Los Angeles, California
for the Sumner J. and Laura Foster Economics Library in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                      5,000
D. Ann Pearson, San Francisco California
pledge payments for the William A. Paton Scholarship, and other support
m the School of Business Administration                                  10,000
Terrence G. Perris, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Potter Stewart Memorial Scholarship in the Law School            14,500
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers' Association Foundation, Inc., Washington, D.C.
for research in the Medical School                                        8,231
Plough Foundation, Memphis, Tennessee
pledge payment for the Plough Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy     45,000
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Power Foundation Fund in the School of Music                     35,000
Mrs. Jesse W. Probst Holland, Ohio
for the Jesse W. and Leona G. Probst Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                          9,600
Protein Development Associates, Menlo Park, California
pledge payment for research in the Medical School                        10,000
Rowland J.Purdy, Fremont, Ohio
Sledge payment for unrestricted support of the College of Literature,
cience and the Arts                                                      5,000
Mr. and Mrs. Ward L. Quaal Winnetka Illinois
pledge payment for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts                                                             50,000
Louise G. Raphael, Atlanta, Georgia
for the Theophile Raphael,-M.D. Research Fund in the Medical School      45,000
James S. Reece, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration         5,000
Florence M. Rennie Scholarship Trust
for the Florence M. Rennie Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                      5,301
-175 -



February Meeting, 1988


Research to Prevent Blindness, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                      75,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                       57,000
Louis J. and Jane S. Rosenbaum, Phoenix, Arizona
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  5,000
Sage Foundation, Detroit
for unrestricted support of the Law School                               15,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                        12,500
Mr. and Mrs. Richard N. Sarns, Ann Arbor
for the School of Business Administration, the Division of Physical
Education, and the President's funds                                     15,000
R. P. Scherer Corporation Troy
for research in the Medical School                                       5,000
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc., Kenilworth, New Jersey
for the Plough Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy, and for
Employee Matching Gifts fund                                            45,700
Albert G. and Olive H. Scilink Foundation, Norwalk, Ohio
for support of the Institute of Gerontology                              5,000
John C. Sheehan, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the Campaign for Michigan - Chemical Sciences Component              15,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena, California
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                          10,000
Dr. and Mrs. David B. Sloan, Jr., Wilmington, North Carolina;
Dunn & Bradstreet Corporation common stock; for the F. Bruce Fralick
Endowed Professorship and other ophthalmology support in the Medical School  10,725
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts,
and in the Institute for Social Research                                89,000
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council Inc., New York, New York
for pathology research in the Medical School                            26,729
Jane Morns Soop estate
for support of the Great Lakes Research Division of the Institute
of Science and Technology                                               39,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, linois
for research in the Institute of Gerontology                            98,500
Standard Oil Company, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration,
and for Employee Matching Gifts                                         10,275
Edward R. Stein, Ann Arbor
for gfts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan               15,000
Clinton F. timpson III, Port Huron
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration and the
College of Engineerming, and for faculty support in the Campaign for Michigan  15,000
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust, Flint
for the Esther C. Stone Fund, The University of Michigan-Flint           8,622
Robert A. Sullivan Estate
for the Robert A. Sullivan Fund in the Law School                       45,000
William P. Sutter, Chicago, Illinois
pledge payment for support of the Law School                             5,000
Joel D. Tauber West Bloomfield
for the Roy F. Proffitt Loan Fund in the Law School, and for support
of the Department of Athletics and the School of Business Administration  6,000
A. Alfred Taubman Foundation, Troy
pledge.payment for the Campaign for Michigan - Replacement Hospital Component 500,000
Textron Charitable Trust, Providence, Rhode Island
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - School of Business
Administration Component                                                20,000
Therma-Tru Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - Replacement Hospital
Component fund                                                           5,000
Arthur Thurnau Charitable Trust
for the Arthur Thurnau fund                                             191,380
Charles H. Tobias, Farmington Hills,ledge payments for unrestricted support of the Law School and the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts                              5,000
Maxine J. Tobias, Ann Arbor
for the Max E. Tobias Memorial Scholarship                              25,000
Unisys Corporation, Detroit
for the manufacturing forum in the School of Business Administration,
and for Employee Miatching Gifts fund                                    9,814
-176 -



February Meeting, 1988


Frederick S. Upton Foundation, Saint Joseph
for the Clements Library Associates Program, and for The University of
Michigan Alumnae Club of Benton Harbor                                  6,000
Ann T. van Rosevelt, Ann Arbor
Coca Cola Company common stocks for the 50th Anniversary Fund in the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies                            50,042
Theodor R. Von Voigtlander, Pickney
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - Replacement Hospital Component 40,000
Ronald R. Wade, Jr., Toledo, Ohio
for student aid endowment in the Campaign for Michigan                   5,000
Robert E. Wagenfeld, New York New York
for unrestricted support of the Law School                              10,000
Herbert S. Wander, Higand Park, Illinois
for the Raoul G. Wallenberg Medal and Lecture Fund in the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies                                      7,500
Warner-Lambert Company Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the Warner-Lambert Women in Science Program                         10,000
Claude W. West Estate
for the Claude W. West Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering     21,052
Jerome B. Wiesner, Cambridge, Massachusetts
pledge payment for the Campaign for Michigan - College of Engineering Component 25,000
Perla M. Wolcott Estate
for unrestricted support of the Alumni Association                      40,120
M. Irene Woodman, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the School of Nursing                        5,000
World Health Organization, Zurich Switzerland
for research in the College of Pharmacy and the School of Public Health  151,000
World Society Foundation, Zurich Switzerland
for poIitical science research in the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts                                                            5,948
Arthur Young Foundation New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                        7,915
The following gifts-in-kind were received:
Vida Chenoweth, Wheaton, Illinois
A carved, ochred, wooden slit-drum and beater from New Guinea; for the Stearns
Collection of Musical Instruments
Richard L. DeCan Ann Arbor
An Apple II Plus computer system and software; for the Division of Occupational Therapy
IVAC Corporation, San Diego, California
A variable pressure volumetric pump, and a Vital Check System Package; for the
School of Nursing
Oliver Marcotte Southfield
A Prime 2250 computer system and related equipment; for the School of Dentistry
School of Nursing Alumn Association, Ann Arbor
A variety of silver items (samovars, tea service, etc.); for the School of Nursing
Joanne Bouchard Robins, Indianapolis Indiana
A baptismal certificate for Charles Marke Mettez, signed by Father Gabriel Richard, June 26, 1817;
for the Clements Library
Mrs. Russell H. Smith, Ba City
The George Aplin Papers (320 pieces), dated 1860-1907; for the Clements Library
Godfrey Dorr Stobbe Estate
A land contract receivable on real estate known as the West half of the Northwest quarter of
Section 16, Township 37 North, Readmond Township, Emmet County, Michigan; for the Godfrey Dorr
Stobbe Professorship in Pathology in the Medical School
Kenneth B. West, Grand Blanc
Paperback and hardcover books; for The University of Michigan-Flint Library
Clarence Wolf, Bala-Cynwyd, Pennsylvania
A Jacob Eicholz portrait of Mrs. Samuel Humes, CA. 1836, oil on canvas, for the Clements Library


-177 -



February Meeting, 1988


Personnel Actions
Regent Baker asked Provost Duderstadt if the admissions system for
undergraduates was working well in 1988. The Provost responded that the delays in
admissions last year resulted from slow response from the financial aid office to
admitted students and some difficulties with a new computer system. Both of those
matters had been resolved. Regent Baker asked if it would be fair to say that
admissions delays in 1987 were not the fault of the admissions office. Provost
Duderstadt agreed that that was the case.
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
approved the following personnel actions:
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Darvan A. Moosman, Professor Emeritus of Anatomy and Cell Biology, reappointed to teach a
class in the Medical School, March 3, 1988 for a one-year period
Chen-To-Tai Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, reappointed
to teach a class in the College of Engineerig, January 1, 1988
Crowfoot James E Dean of School of Natural Resources and Professor of Natural Resources and of
Urban and Regional Planning, reappointed Dean of School of Natural of at Resources, January 1,
1988
The following committee appointments were approved:
Michigan League Board of Governors
John B. Ludlow, for the period ending April 30, 1991, vice William T. Carter, Jr., resigned
Janice A. Clark for the period ending April 30, 1990, vice Leon A. Pastalan, resigned
UM-Flint Public Television Advisory Board
Reappointments of Community Advisory Board for Channel 28 Television for a three-year period,
effective May 1, 1988
Rev. J. B. Bettendorf, Director, Flint Newman Center
Mr. Jack Hamady, Retired Businessman
Mrs. Mary Turcke, Owner/Operator, The Book Stall
Mr. Ronald Silverman Psychology, Professor, The University of Michigan-Flint
Mr. Edward Foy, UAW Administration
Mr. Edward Reed, Retired Engineer
Mr. Benjamin Davis, President, Urban Coalition of Flint
New Appointments
one-year term
Mr. Emerson Carr, Management, AC Spark Plug
two-year term
Mrs. Marianne Kugler, Headmaster, Valley School
Mrs. Carol Hinterman, Past President, AA1JW
three-year term
Mr. Roger Welshans, Owner, Young and Welkshans Bookstore
Mrs. Edith Withey, Assistant Director, Flint YMCA
Center for the Continuing Education of Women. The Regents approved the
appointment of Carol S. Hollenshead as Director of the Center for the Continuing
Education of Women, for the period of April 1, 1988 through June 30, 1993.
Interim Director of University Library. The Regents approved the
appointment of Robert M. Warner as Interim Director of University Library,
effective May 1, 1988, for an open-ended term not to exceed two years.


-178 -



February Meeting, 1988


Personnel Reports
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Raymond P. Kettel, ED.D., Education, UM-Dearborn
Spencer W. Thomas, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Anthony M. Waas, Ph.D., Aerospace Engineering
Instructor
Robert S. Goldman, Ph.D., Psychiatry, also Adjunct Assistant Professor of Psychology, June 15, 1987
Jack G. Modell, M.D., Psychiatry, September I, 1987
Lecturer
Kenneth L. Campbell Ph.D., Statistics
Mary K. Caryv MA. Information and Library Studies
Virginia C. Hieber, Ph.D., Neurology, December 7, 1987
Arthur A. Lee Jr MA., Comprehensive Studies Program
Edith D. Raleigh, Ph.D., Nursing
Visitin Professor
Hirosli Azuma, Ph.D. Psychology February 1, 1988
Edward Bartman. Ph.D., Natural Resources
Michael L. Cartier, Ph.D., History
Merritt B. Fox, Ph.D., Law
Barry E. Hawk, L.L.B., Law
Steven Wechsler J.D., Law
Aksel C. Winn-Nielsen, Dr.Phil. Atmospheric, Oceanic and Space Sciences
Visiting Associate Professor
Odies-C. Ferrell[Phl.D,  Marketing
Ann J. Gellis, J.., Law
James T. Tice, M. Arch., Architecture and Urban Planning
isitn Assistant Professor
Heidrun L. Homburg, Dr. Phil, History
Michael W. Kalmes,M.Ed., Political Science
Josaphat B. Kubayanda, Ph.D., Spanish
Rober M. Lynch, M.Arch. Architecture and Urban Planning
Sylvie Mas-Gallic, THESE'D' ETAT, Mathematics
Visiting Lecturer
Subbalakshmi D. Govender, MA., Center for Afro-American and African Studies
Thomas A. Ryckman, Ph.D., Philosophy
Adiunct Professor
Kenneth S. Albert Ph.D. Pharmacy, July 1, 1987
Laurence C. Greckens M.R.P., Architecture and Urban Planning
Richard W. Munt, Ph.D., Aerospace Engineering
Adiunct Associate Professor
Mark M. Shamamy, Ph.D., Physics
Adiunct Assistant Professor
Linda Clinard, Ph.D. Education
Nesha Z. Haniff, Ph.D. Afro-American and African Studies
Charles W. Kennedy, Ph.D  Business Economics
Barbara Kennison, Ph.D., Nursing September 1 1987
Leonard E. Moriconi M.S.E.E., Electrical and Computer Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Charles P. Roth, Jr., Ph.D., Communication, UM-Flnt
Michael P. Stewart, Ph.D., English, UM-Flint
Mark L. Sullivan M.FA., Theatre and Drama September 1, 1987
Gaynell Walker-Burt, Ph.D., Nursing, September 1, 1987


-179 -



February Meeting, 1988


Adjunct Instructor
Janet Hollaway M.S.N., Nursing, September 1, 1987
Joel I. Kleiner, J.D., Management, UM-Flint
Adiunct Lecturer
Eric J. Bailey, MA. Anthropology UM-Dearborn
James E. Balun, M.S., Chemistry, M-Dearborn
Adel M. Barres, M.PA., Ceramics, Residential College
Karen S. Bird, B.S, Accounting
Kevin Bruce, M.S. Education, UM-Dearborn
Sister Marie Cacciatore, MA., Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Ruth D. Carey M.P.H., Nursing, September 1,1987
Yubao Chen, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Donald S. Chisholm M.BA., Real Estate
Andrew S. Crawford, M.BA., Industrial and Operations Engineering
Juliana M. Cunningham, MA., English, UM-Flint
Phyllis J. Cupp, BA., Mathematics, UM-Flint
Mary J. Disler, M.Mus Music, UM-Dearborn
Gary M. Ebbs B. MUS., Philosophy
Alice Echols, Ph.D., Women's Studies
Ann R. Ford-Holevmski, M.S. Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Brenda A. Flanagan Ph.D., Afro-American and African Studies
Robert French, Ph.D., Philosophy, UM-Dearborn
Dean A. Frick, M.BA., Management, UM-Flint
Mark L. Hassett, M.U.P., Resource and Community Science, UM-Flint
David G. Hunscher, M.GA., Public Administration, UM-Dearborn
Merton A. Jacobs, A.B., Physics, Engineering Science, UM-Flint
Gloria Jeff, M.U.P, Architecture and Urban Planning
Herbert A. Jordan J.D., Law
Monique Kavanagh, MAITRISE, French Literature
Gregory A. Keoleian, Ph.D., Chemical Engineering
John R. Kilbourne, MA., Education, UM Dearborn
Laurence R. Lewis, M.BA., Computer Science, UM-Flint
Daniel K. Lucas, B.S., Physics/Engineering, UM-Flint
Christopher L. Mahr, MA., Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Frances J. McMunigal, MA. Education, UM-Flint
Andrew T. Milia, B.BA. Real Estate
Phillip E. Moore, MA. Education, UM-Flint
Rudy H. Mora, MA. Education, UM-Flint
Carol Mowbray Ph.i., Nursing, September 1, 1987
Lisa J. Neidert Ph.D., American Culture
Jun Ni, Ph.D. Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Kathleen M. Pamer MA. Law, History and Communication
Joclayre M. Peters, MA., Political Science
Robert L. Pisor, B.S., Communication
Mary T. Romine, Ph.D., Biology, UM-Dearborn
Deborah F. Romo MA., Education
Deborah J. Ross, Ph.D., Classical Studies
Ara Sarafian, Diploma, Armenian
Ronald Schwartz, Ph.D., Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Melody L. Scott, BA., Music UM-Flint
William J. Stevenson, MA., Religion
Laurie Taylor-Kelley MA., History of Art
Gail E. Textor, B.S. Education, UM-Flint
Thanh Van Tran Ph.D. Social Work
Linda S. Walbridge, MA., Anthropolog, UM-Dearborn
Edwin B. Watson, M.S.E., Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Glenda K. Westover MA., Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Lynnette Wood, Phi)., Mathematics, January 11, 1988
Zvi Yama, B.Sc., Physics
Clinical Instructor I
Shambhavi Chandraiah, M.D., Psychiatry, December 1, 1987
Stephen A. Denbrock, D.D.S., Dentistry
Elizabeth A. deVaux, B.S Pharmacy, July 1, 1987
Virginia L. Schroeder, B.S., Pharmacy, July 1, 1987


-180 -



February Meeting, 1988


PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Janet S. Barnfather, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Nursing October 1, 1987
Edward M. Bowden, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Psychology, UM-Flint
William J. Cherf, from Adjunct Lecturer to Adjunct Assistant Professor of History, UM-Flint
Lawrence J. Fine, from Associate Professor of Occupational Medicine to Adjunct Associate Professor of
Occupational Medicine, also holds title of Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Gertrude E. Huntington, Adjunct Lecturer of Anthropology and Geological Sciences, also appointed
Adjunct Lecturer of Natural Resources
Jean T. Shope, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, School
of Public Health, also Lecturer of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education,
Medical School
Michael A. Silverstein, from Adjunct Assistant Professor to Adjunct Professor of Occupational
Medicine
Timothy D. Thomasma, Assistant Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering and also
appointed Assistant Professor of Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Sandra K Tucker, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Nursing, October 1, 1987
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED
ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Sabbatical
A. Adnan Aswad, Associate Dean and Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn, for a five-month period
Robert P. Kelch, Chairman and Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, for a
four-month period
Paul G. Federbush, Professor of Mathematics with tenure, for a six-month period
Victor L. Katch, Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, Division of Physical Education, and Associate
Professor of Kinesiology without tenure, Medical School, for a six-month period
Samuel J. Meisels, Professor of Education, with tenure, for a six-month period
George B. Simmons, Professor of Population Planning and International Health and of Population and
Health Plannning, for a one-month period
Albert P. Rocchini, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, for a seven-month
period
SherrilI A. Smith, Professor of Art, with tenure for a six-month period
Edwin J. Thomas, Fedele F. Fauri Professor of Social Work, with tenure, and Professor of Psychology,
with tenure, for a one-year period
John E. Tropman, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, for a six-month period
Gary D. Herring, Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, or a
six-month period
Kristina D. Hansen, Assistant Professor of Mathematics,UM-Flint, with tenure, for a six-month period
Duty Off Campus
Richard L. Malvin, Professor of Physiology, with tenure, for a three-month period
Vincent Massey Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, for a three-month period,
January 2i, 1988
Scholarly Activity
Deborah Dwork, Assistant Professor of History of Public Health, for a six-month period
Extended Sick
Carl W. Adkerlof, Professor of Physics, with tenure, for a three-month period
Robert H. Cojeen, Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, UM-Flint, for a six-month period
Hiroshi Ikuma, Professor of Biology, with tenure, for a six-month period
George B. Simmons, Professor of Population Planning and International Administration, with tenure,
for a fifteen-month period
Marilyn Solsky, Instructor of Internal Medicine, for a two-month period
Retirement Furlough
Charles B. Cartwright, Assistant Dean and Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, for a one-year period
Margaret J. Hunter Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, for a one-year period
Robert H. Cojeen, Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, UM-Flint, for a one-year period
Leave without Salary
Ann M. FeldsteinL Assistant Professor of Biostatistics, for a nine-month period
Michel J. P. Gabrielli, Lecturer in French Language and Literature, for a six-month period
Edward J. Mitchell, Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, for a six-month period


-181 -



February Meeting, 1988
Philip Kerr, Associate Professor of Music, without tenure, for a six-month period
Sarah Jane Kerr Lecturer of Theatre and Drama, for a six-month period
Christopher Z. Wzacny, Associate Professor of Architecture, with fenure, for a six-month period
AlirezaH. Mohammadian, Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, M-Dearborn,
for a five-month period
Mary L. Parker, Instructor of Nursing, for a two-month period, January 25,1988
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED
ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective December 31, 1987, unless otherwise indicated
President
arold T. Shapiro, Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, January 3, 1988
Professor
Manuel A. Esteban, Professor of French and Spanish, with tenure, December 4 1987
David Steinuller, Professor of Immunobiology, with tenure, and Professor of Epidemiology, without
tenure
Associate Professor
Tanya M. Gallagher, Associate Professor of Education and Speech Pathology, with tenure
Vivian B. Shapiro, Associate Professor of Social Work, without tenure, also Lecturer of Psychiatry
Kenneth L. Watkim, Associate Professor of Education and Speech Science, with tenure
Assistant Pro essor
Gary J. DeFpp, Radiology
Bassell W. Abou Khalil, Seurology
David N. Shapiro, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, January 15, 1988
Clinical Instructor
Anne A. Smid, Radiology
Visiting Professor
John A. Muckstadt, Industrial and Operations Engineering, December 10, 1987
Adjacent Lecturer
Bonnie J. Misiak, Dentistry


-182 -



February Meeting, 1988


Retirement Memoirs
The Regents adopted retirement memoirs for four faculty members.
Kurt C. Binder, Associate Professor of Engineering Graphics in the Department
of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, retired from active faculty status
as of December 31, 1987.
Professor Binder received his B.S. degree in mechanical engineering from The
University of Michigan in 1944. Following the completion of his studies, he served as
an ensign and a lieutenant on the destroyer escort in the United States Navy. In 1946
he returned to The University of Michigan for one year as an instructor in the
Engineering Drawing Department. Professor Binder then worked with the
Kaiser-Frazier Corporation before entering the master's program in business
administration at The University of Michigan. He completed his M.B.A. degree in
1950 and joined the Baker Perkins firm as a project engineer/designer. In 1951, he
accepted a position with the University of Arizona as an instructor in Mechanical
Engineering.
Professor Binder returned to The University of Michigan in 1952 as an
instructor in the Engineering Graphics Department. He served the University in this
capacity until 1955, when he joined General Motors Corporation and where he
remained until 1960. He served as Vice President of Sales Specialists, Inc., from
1960-1961, and in 1961 brought his considerable instructional and industrial
experience back to The University of Michigan to stay. He was appointed assistant
professor of engineering graphics in 1961, and was promoted to associate professor in
1969. Following the discontinuance of the Engineering Graphics Department,
Professor Binder continued to instruct students in engineering graphics as an associate
professor in the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics until
his retirement.
Professor Binder's deep commitment to teaching is recognized by many. He is
credited with keeping the engineering graphics course a viable part of the College
curriculum and for providing the pathway within the Department to integrate
computer technology into the engineering graphics course. His service on the college
admissions committee and the committee on freshman counseling further exemplify
his pledge to undergraduate education. Professor Binder has also been a member of
the Society of Automotive Engineers and the American Society of Engineering
Education.
The Regents now salute this dedicated instructor by naming Kurt C. Binder
Associate Professor Emeritus of Engineering Graphics.
William L. Root, Professor of Aerospace Engineering and Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, retired from active faculty status as of
December 31, 1987.
A native of Iowa, Professor Root received his B.S. degree from Iowa State
College in 1940, and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Massachusetts Institute of
Technology in 1943 and 1952, respectively. Until he joined The University of
Michigan faculty in 1961, his primary affiliation was with the Lincoln Laboratory at
MIT, where he established himself as a leading researcher in the statistical theory of
radio and radar signal detection. During that time, he and W.B. Davenport published
what became a classic book on the theory of random signals and noise.
In 1961, Professor Root joined The University ofMichigan faculty as a professor
of aerospace engineering; in 1986 he was also named professor of electrical
engineering and computer science. Among the areas in which he has made major
research contributions are the theory of stochastic processes, detection theory,


-183 -



February Meeting, 1988


information theory, signal processing of object fields, abstract linear estimation theory,
dynamical system representation and identification. In recognition of his work he has
held visiting positions at five prestigious universities, been named a fellow of the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, and has received several national
awards and a Research Excellence Award from the College of Engineering. For his
"consistent and profound contributions to the field of information theory", he was
named the Shannon Lecturer for the 1986 IEEE International Symposium on
Information Theory.
Professor Root was the organizer and first chairman of the graduate program in
computer, information, and control engineering, which for many years was renowned
for the distinction of its faculty and students. He has also served on the executive
committee of the College of Engineering and the executive board of the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies. Professor Root's uncompromising integrity and
high standards are reflected in his teaching and supervision of doctoral students, and
in the influence he has had on the professional lives and attitudes of his associates. By
perceptive criticism and comment, expressed with wit and good humor, he has often
caused them to question the status quo and raise their standards. In so doing, he has
shown them that high attainment and uncomplicated honesty are good partners.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and researcher for his
exemplary career and dedicated service by naming William L. Root Professor
Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering and Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science.
Edward M. Shafter, Jr. Professor of Humanities in the College of Engineering,
retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1987, after thirty-four years as a
teacher of English and speech in the College of Engineering.
Professor Shafter received his A.B. degree from The University of Michigan in
1947, his A.M. degree from Wayne State University in 1948, and his Ph.D. degree
from The University of Michigan in 1956. He served as a teaching fellow in the
Speech Department in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts from
1951-1954. Thereafter, his appointments were in the Department of English (later
Humanities), College of Engineering. He was appointed instructor in 1954, assistant
professor in 1957, associate professor in 1961, and professor in 1967.
During his academic career at The University of Michigan, Professor Shafter
was active on a number of committees for the department, the college, and the
university. With his department chairman, Professor Carl G. Brandt, he edited the
book Selected Speeches on Basic Issues (Boston, 1960). He held offices in the
University Chapter of the American Association of University Professors and the
Michigan Academy of Science, Arts, and Letters. He was a careful planner, and a
skilled speaker and teacher. His classes were in such demand that disappointed
students were often turned away because his classes were so full.
The Regents now salute this able teacher by naming Edward M. Shafter, Jr.
Professor Emeritus of Humanities.
William S. Smith, M.D., Professor of Surgery, will retire from active faculty
status as of February 29, 1988, after a most productive career as a clinician and
teacher.
Dr. Smith received his A.B. degree from The University of Michigan in 1940 as
well as his M.D. degree in 1943. He served his internship and assistant residency in
Ann Arbor at University Hospital and St. Joseph Mercy Hospital, respectively. He
beean his residency in Orthopedic Surgery at University Hospital in 1945. His
residency was interrupted by service in the United States Army during World War II.
He returned to Ann Arbor in 1948 to complete his residency.


-184 -



February Meeting, 1988


Dr. Smith was first appointed to a faculty position at The University of Michigan
in 1950, when he served as an instructor in orthopedic surgery. He then went to Ohio
State University in 1952 as an instructor. He was promoted to assistant professor in
1954, and to associate professor and acting director of the Division of Orthopedic
Surgery in 1956. In 1960, Dr. Smith received the most prestigious prize in orthopedic
surgery, the Kappa Delta Award, for his outstanding scientific studies of congenital
dislocation of the hip.
In 1961, Dr. Smith was promoted to professor and director of the Division of
Orthopedic Surgery at Ohio State University. He returned to The University of
Michigan as professor and head of the Section of Orthopedic Surgery in 1963, in which
capacity he served until 1985. Under Dr. Smith s leadership, the Section of
Orthopedic Surgery grew considerably, from one full-time faculty member in 1963 to
twelve full-time faculty members at the present time.
Dr. Smith is a recognized national expert in orthopedic pathology. His
organization and personal participation in the training of students and residents in this
field has greatly contributed to the success of trainees on in-training and board
examinations as well as to their competence as broadly-trained orthopedic surgeons.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming William S. Smith Professor Emeritus of Surgery.
Memorials
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case the Regents approved
the following amendments to the degree lists:
School of Art
Bachelor of Fine Arts, August 1987
delete: Greta IDongvillo
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
School of Education
Master of Arts December 1983
add:   Douglas Rodgers Gibbs, B.S.Ed.
Master of Science Physical Education Kinesiology, May, 1987
add:   Andrea Rreger McDonnell, B.S.
Master of Science, Pysical Education: Kinesiology, August 1976
delete: Andrea Kreger McConnell, B.S.
Master of Science, Physical Education, Kinesiology, August 1987
add:   Jacqueline Renee Krenselewski, B.S.,
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Master of Arts, English Language and Literature, December, 1985
add:   Elizabeth Virgnia Young, A.B., Cornell University
Rackham
Master of Public Administration
add:   Robert Burke Johnson, B.S., University of Oregon
College of Literature Science and the Arts,
Master of Science, Chemistry, August 1987
add:   Albert Tse, B.S.,
Dental School
Master of Science, Restorative Dentistry, August 1987
add:   Peter Elliott Shumaker, D.D.S.


-185 -



February Meeting, 1988


Collee of En ineerin
Master of Science, Computer Science and Engineering, August 1987
add:   David Eugene Mc Cauley III, B.S.
Master of Science m Enineering Aerospace Engineering August 1987
add: Ahmed Zafer Al-Garni, B.S. (Aerospace E.), University of Arizona, M.S., ibid.
Universit of Michigan-Dearbom
Master of Arts, Education August 1987
add:   James Chris Naum, A.B.
School of Information and Library Studies
Master of Information and Library Studies
add:   Elizabeth Pleasants Davis, A.B., Hollins College
add:   Victoria Bojarski Woodley, A.B., University of Virginia
Rackham
Master of Science, Macromolecular Science and Engineering, August 1987
add:   Albert Tse, B.S.
School of Nursin=
Bachelor of Science December, 1977
add:   Cleola Hinton
Residential College
Bachelor in General Studies, May 1985
Add:   Robin Simone Spencer
Bachelor of Arts, August 1986
add:   Sandra Maria Nutt
Bachelor of Arts, May 1987
add:   Catherine J. Cordaro
Bachelor in General Studies, May, 1985
Bachelor of Arts, August, 1987
add:   Sandra Anne Lawrence
Denise Marie Socher
Delores Unger
Ross Lavear Wilber
Dawn Tata Yeaton
Bachelor of Science August, 1987
add:   Kevin Warren Kaatz
Bachelor of Arts, December 20, 1987
add:   Theresa Catherine Valasco


-186 -



February Meeting, 1988


Semi-Annual Reports of Designated Fund, Auxiliary Activities Fund and Expendable
Restricted Fund
Vice President Brinkerhoff reviewed the schedules summarizing the activity in
the Designated Fund, Auxiliary Activities Fund, and Expendable Restricted Fund for
the first six months of the current fiscal year and the prior year. He noted the
remarkable turnaround that Student Publications have made as a result of the superb
job they have done in managing their resources. He also responded to questions about
specific items in the report. In response to a question from Regent Roach about the
variance between the forecast and the actual amount of private gifts and sponsored
programs funds, Vice President Cosovich stated that the decline in number of both
donors and dollar amounts this year has occurred nation-wide. He believes that it is
probably the result of the disincentive for philanthropy that resulted from the Tax
Reform Act of 1986.
Henry Russel Award
The Regents approved the following nominations for the 1988 Henry Russel
Award: Thomas P. Beresford, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, Thomas E. Crow,
Associate Professor of History of Art, and John L. Harer, Associate Professor of
Mathematics.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Roach then made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(f) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on February 19, 1988 at 5:00 in the Regents' Room, Fleming
Administration Building, for the purpose of considering material exempt
from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act.
Such exempt material consists of the review of the contents of applications
for employment, where confidentiality has been requested by the candidates
[Section 8(f)].
The motion was seconded by Regent Power and approved unanimously.
The meeting was recessed at 3:50 P.M. It reconvened at 4:00 in the Anderson
Room of the Michigan Union for Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics
indicated:
Terry Calhoun on passing up; Brian  on sexual orientation issues; Robert
Casad on art, science, and truth; Gregory Broughton, Violet Elder, Heidi Van't Hoff,
Dan Bode, Ann Khasagi, and Paula Carson on the Family Housing community center
proposal; and Wendy Sharpe, Ron Mueller, and Andrea__  on a sexual orientation
bylaw amendment.
Following Public Comments, the Regents adjourned to a closed session meeting.


-187 -



February Meeting, 1988


Friday, February 19, 1988
The Regents met at 9:00 AM in the Regents Room.
Present were Interim President Fleming and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen,
Power, Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters. Provost Duderstadt, Vice President and
Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, and Johnson were also
present, as were Chancellors Jenkins and Jones. Vice President Wilson was absent.
Business School Growth Fund
Dean Gilbert Whitaker led a discussion of a proposal to establish and operate a
Michigan Business School Growth Fund. This was a revised version of a similar
proposal that had been presented to the Regents several months previously. Under
this program, five Alumni Investment Managers will make day-to-day investment
decisions and will carry out Regentally approved investment policy under guidelines
established by a 9-15 member Board of Trustees. It is believed that this investment
program will encourage active participation in investment management by alumni who
have distinguished themselves in such areas and will attract financial support from
alumni of the School of Business Administration who would endorse the investment
strategies adopted by the Fund. Following some discussion, Regent Smith moved, and
Regent Nielsen seconded, a motion authorizing the establishment and operation of a
Michigan Business School Growth Fund. The motion carried unanimously.
Financing to Purchase and Install Equipment to Expand the Telephone System
To finance the purchase of a Northern Telecom, Inc. SL-100 telephone system
(approved by the Regents at the January 1988 meeting), the Regents adopted the
following resolution authorizing the issuance, sale and delivery of the
Telecommunication System Bonds, Series 1988 and the execution and delivery of the
Escrow Deposit Agreement, Bond Purchase Agreement, Official Statement, and other
documentation relating to the 1988 Bonds. The motion was made by Regent Roach,
seconded by Regent Varner, and adopted on a vote of 7 to 1, with Regent Smith
abstaining.


-188 -



February Meeting, 1988
Resolution of the Regents of The University of Michigan
Authorizing the Issuance and Delivery of Telecommunications Systems Bonds,
Series 1988 and Providing for Other Matters Relating Thereto
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "University") constitute a const a itutional
body corporate establishe pursuant to Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 as
amende  with the en eradedson of the University of Michigan and the control and direction of all
expenditures from the institution's funds; and
WHEREAS the University has previously issued its $45,858,587 Telecommunications System
Bonds, Series 1984 (the "Prior Bonds") for the purpose of providing funds for the acquisition, construction
and installation of a telecommunications system; and
WHEREAS, the University has determined it is necessary and desirable to acquire, construct, and
install additional improvements to the telecommunications system (the "Project"); and
WHEREAS, it may be desirable to refund part of the interest on the Prior Bonds in order to more
appropriately match debt service with available revenues; and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties, and in order to prudently control and direct
expenditures from the University's funds the University determines it is necessary and desirable to
authorize the issuance and delivery of the Iniversity's Telecommunications System Bonds, Series 1988,
(the "Bonds") in order to provide funds which, together with other available funds, may be used for one or
more of the following: to pay all or a portion of the costs of the Project; to refund part of the interest on
the Prior Bonds; to pay capitalized interest on the Bonds; and to pay costs incidental to the issuance of the
Bonds and the refunding; and
WHEREAS, a trust indenture (the "Trust Indenture" must be enthe ered into by and between the
University and a trustee to be designated by the Authorized Officers (hereinafter defined) (the "Trustee"),
pursuant to which the Bonds will be issued and secured, and
WHEREAS, John Nuveen & Co. Incorporated (the "Underwriter") has been engaged to undertake
preliminary market analysis and to present to the Authorized Officers a bond purchase agreement (the
Bond Purchase Agreement") setting forth the terms and conditions upon which John Nuveen & Co.
Incorporated will agree to purchase the Bonds and the Interest rates thereof and the purchase price
therefor; and
WHEREAS, in order to be able to market the Bonds at the most opportune time, it is necessary for
the University to authorize the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Controller of the
University (the "Authorized Officers") to negotiate, execute and deliver on behalf of the University the
Trust Indenture, establish the specific terms of the Bonds and to accept the offer of the Underwriter to
purchase the Bonds, all within the limitations set forth herein:
WHEREAS, the financing of the Project and the refunding will serve proper and appropriate public
purposes; and
WHEREAS, the University has previously incurred obligations secured by a pledge of and first lien
against Student Fees, subject to the right to incur additional obligations similarly secured, upon conditions
specified in the resolutions authorizing said previously incurred obligations, essentially as follows, to wit:
"The total amount of Student Fees collected by the University in each of its last two
preceding complete Fiscal Years prior to the issuance of such additional Parity Obligations
are equal to atleast 200 percent of the maximum annual principal and interest requirements
of the then outstanding Parity Obligations and the proposed additional Parity Obligations
during any future fiscal year the proposed additional Parity Obligations are scheduled to be
outstanding."
WHEREAS, the Authorized Officers or either of them shall certify that all conditions and
requirements precedent to the issuance of the Bonds shall have been met upon the delivery of the Bonds;
and
WHEREAS, the Regents have full power under their constitutional authority for supervision of the
University, and control and expenditures from the University funds to acquire the Project, to pay the cost
of the acquisition, construction and installation of the Project and the refunding by issuance of the Bonds,
and to pledge Student Fees for payment of the Bonds:
NOW, Therefore, be it Resolved by the Regents of The University of Michigan, as Follows:


-189 -



February Meeting, 1988


1. The University hereby authorizes the issuance execution and delivery of the Bonds of the
University to be designated Telecommunications System Bonds, Series 1988, (with appropriate additional
designation if the refunding is to be effected) in the aggregate original princpal amount to be established
by either of the Authorized Officers, but not to exceed$1),000,000), to be dated as of the date established
by the Authorized Officers, or either of them, for the purpose of providing funds which together with
other available funds, will be used for one of more of the purposes set forth m the preambles hereto. The
Bonds may be serial bonds or term Bonds subject to redemption requirements, or both, as shall be
established by either of the Authorized Officers, but the first maturity shall be not earlier than April 1,
1989 and the last maturity shall not be later than April 1, 2000. The Bonds shall be issued as interest
bearing bonds or capital appreciation bonds, or a combination thereof, and shall bear interest or
appreciate at the rates for the respective maturities thereof as shall be established by either of the
Authorized Officers, but the highest rate of interest or appreciation for any maturity shall not exceed 9%
per annum. The Bonds may be made noncallable or subject to redemption prior to maturity at the times
and price and in the manner as shall be established by either of the Aufhorized Officers, but the maximum
redemption premium shall not exceed 5% of the principal being redeemed. Interest on the Bonds, if any
shall be payable semiannually on A ril 1 and October I of each year. The maximum annual principal and
interest requirements on the Bonds shall not exceed $8,000,000. The Bonds shall be issued m fully
registered Torm in denominations, shall be payable as to principal and interest in the manner shall be
subject to transfer and exchange, and shall be executed and authenticated, all as shall be provided in the
Trust Indenture. The Bonds shall be sold to the Underwriter pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement
for a price to be established by either of the authorized Officers (but the Underwriter's discount, exclusive
of original issue discount, shall not exceed 3% of the principal amount thereof) plus accrued interest, if
any, from the dated date of the Bonds to the date of delivery thereof.
2. The Bonds shall be limited and not general obligations of the University payable from and
secured by a first lien on the Student Fees as shall be defined in the Trust Indenture to mean the general
tuition fees established from time to time by the University) and funds from time to time on deposit in the
funds created pursuant to the Trust Indenture.
Except as provided in the Trust Indenture no recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal
amount of or interest or premium on the Bonds or any claim based thereon against the State of Michigan
the University or any officer or agent thereof, as individuals, either directly or indirectly, nor shall the
Bonds and interest with respect thereto become a lien on or be secured by any property, real, personal or
mixed of the State of Michigan or the University, other than the Student Tees and the moneys from time
to time on deposit in the funds established by the Trust Indenture.
3. The right is reserved to issue additional bonds, notes or other obligations payable from and
secured on a parity basis with the Bonds from the Student Fees, upon compliance with the terms and
conditions as shall be set forth in the Trust Indenture.
4. James F. Brinkerhoff, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University or C. W.
Matthews Controller, and Norman G. Herbert the Investment Officer of the University are hereby
authorized and directed, in the name and on behalf of the University, and as its corporate act and deed, to
negotiate, execute and deliver the Trust Indenture. The Trust Indenture may contain such covenants on
behalf of the University and terms as such Officers deem appropriate, taking into account the customary
covenants and provisions of resolutions and trust indentures previously approved by the University in
connection with the issuance of student fee bonds, including, but not limite to covenants with respect to
the establishment of student fees at levels expressed as a percentage of debt service on the Bonds or all
student fee bonds, and with respect to the issuance of additional bonds, notes or other obligations payable
from and secured by Student Fees.
5. James F. Brinkerhoff, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University and C. W.
Matthews, Controller of the University, or either of them, are hereby authorized and directed, in the name
and on behalf of the University and as its corporate act and deed, to negotiate, execute and deliver the
Bond Purchase Agreement with the Underwriter setting forth the terms ofthe Bonds and the sale thereof,
all within the parameters set forth herein.
6. James F. Brinkerhoff, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University or C. W.
Matthews, Controller, is hereby authorized, empowered and directed, in the name and on behalf of the
University, and as its corporate act and deed, to execute the Bonds by placing his facsimile signature
thereon, and to deliver the Bonds to the Underwriter in exchange for the purchase price thereof, as
provided in the Bond Purchase Agreement.
7. The Authorized Officers, or either of them are authorized to cause the preparation of a
Preliminary Official Statement and an Official Statement with respect to the Bonds, and to execute and
deliver the Official Statement. The Underwriter is authorized to circulate and use, in accordance with
applicable law, the Preliminary Official Statement and the Official Statement in connection with the
otfering, marketing and sale ot he Bonds.


-190 -



February Meeting, 1988


8 The Authorized Officers or either of them, are authorized to negotiate, execute and deliver an
escrow deposit agreement with an escrow agent to be selected by the Authorized Officers, or either of
them, to provide for the payment of the refunded interest, if any, on the Prior Bonds.
9. The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the Secretary, the Controller, the Investment
Officer, the General Counsel, and any other appropriate officer of the University are hereby authorized to
perform all acts and deeds and to execute anddeliver all instruments and documents for and on behalf of
the University required by this resolution, the Trust Indenture, or the Bond Purchase Agreement, as
necessary, expedient and proper in connection with the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds, as
contemplated hereby.
10. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the University in conflict herewith
be and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
Family Housing Community Center
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents voted
unanimously to authorize the construction of a Family Housing Community Center on
a site on the northeast corner of Hubbard Road and McIntyre Drive. They also
authorized the appointment of the architectural firm of Sims, Varner and Associates
to design the building.
Vacant Lot, Bronson, Michigan
The Regents decided to table until next month a proposal to deed a vacant lot
that had been donated to the University in Bronson, Michigan to the city of Bronson,
pending consultation with the donors regarding the University's plans.
General Campus Renovation Project at The University of Michigan-Dearborn
University planner Fred Mayer reviewed the history of this project, which has
been approved and funded at $11.6 million by the Joint Capital Outlay Subcommittee.
The firm of Sims, Varner & Associates, Inc. had been appointed by the Regents at the
June 1985 meeting to draw up architectural plans. After reviewing several alternatives
that had been considered, Mr. Mayer described the proposed plans in detail. They
include renovation of the vacant Student Activities Building (SAB) to house the Fine
& Applied Arts programs, central administration offices, and the offices of Student
Services, with construction of a 600-seat auditorium at the west end of the SAB. Also
included are modifications of the Classroom & Administration Building (CAB) and
construction of a two-story Science & Computer Center (SCC). Minor renovations in
the Classroom-Office Building and the Engineering Laboratory Building complete the
project.
The cost estimate for the entire project is $18.5 million, which is $6.9 more than
what has been approved by the state. Thus, it is proposed to defer the 600-seat
auditorium and the minor renovations of the Classroom-Office Building and the
Engineering Laboratory Building until additional funding is eventually authorized by
the State of Michigan.
Regents Brown and Baker objected to certain aspects of the proposed location
of a new building on the site of the central courtyard on the campus. Both felt that
locating a building there would take away the central mall effect of that green space.


-191 -



February Meeting, 1988


Regent Baker was also concerned with the architectural concept, especially the
emphasis on the vertical components of the proposed archway theme, which he feared
would not be compatible with the rest of the campus architecture. He asked for an
opportunity to obtain further details of the design from the architect. Regent Power,
however, felt that the arches provided a pleasing, unifying theme. Vice President
Brinkerhoff stressed that the proposed building site is not in the central courtyard
itself, but on a wooded area adjacent to the courtyard. Following further discussion of
specific aspects of the proposal, the Regents passed a motion to approve the
rehabilitation/remodeling portions of the proposal, and to have the architect and
planner appear before the Regents at the March meeting to answer specific questions
that have been raised by the Regents regarding the overall campus plan and
architectural details of proposed new buildings and renovations.
E.H. Kraus Natural Science Building Renovations
The Regents voted to authorize the award of contract for renovation of the E.H.
Kraus Natural Science Building to the low bidders, Erickson and Lindstrom
Construction Co., John E. Green Company, A.F. Smith and Son, Inc., and Kewaunee
Scientific Equipment Corp.
Electrical Contractors
Regent Roach said that he was concerned about the fact that not enough bids
are being received for University projects from area electrical contractors, and that
this seems to be an ongoing problem. He proposed that a survey be undertaken of all
electrical contractors who could possibly be expected to bid for University projects in
an effort to discover if there is a reason for the lack of bids. Mr. Brinkerhoff agreed to
arrange for such a survey.
Edwin S. George Reserve-Experimental Pond Facility; ISR-Chiller and Cooling
Tower Replacement
The Regents approved expenditure of $400,000 as the first phase of an $800,000
project to construct a major pond facility and support service building at George
Reserve. They also approved a $650,000 project to replace the ISR chiller and cooling
tower.
Amendment to Certificate of Need for UM Hospitals Bond Marrow Transplant Unit
The Regents approved submission of an amendment to a Certificate of Need
that had originally been approved at $316,000 for a Bone Marrow Transplantation
Unit (BMTU) at University Hospitals. The amendment requests $471,000, reflecting
a change in equipment, additional renovation costs, and incremental design costs.
UM Hospitals Replacement of Cath Equipment in Peds Cardiology Minor Procedures
Room
The Regents next approved submission of a Certificate of Need to the Michigan
Department of Public Health for $552,000 to replace the cath equipment in the Peds
Cardiology minor procedures room with a "single plane, multi axis C-arm" system.


-192 -



February Meeting, 1988


Proposed Licensing Agreement between The University of Michigan and a Start-Up
Small Business Incorporated and Owned by University Employees (BioQuant)
The Regents unanimously approved an agreement between The University of
Michigan and a corporation known as BioQuant of Ann Arbor, Inc. (BioQuant). This
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest statute, since the
founders of BioQuant (A. Rees Midgley, Willfried Schramm, and Marilyn D.
Katz-Pek) are University employees. The following information is provided in
compliance with the statutory requirements of the Conflict of Interest Statute:
1.  Parties to the exclusive license agreement will be The University of
Michigan and BioQuant, a corporation wholly owned by the Founders.
2.  Terms of the. contract include: a duration starting February 20, 1988
and continuing for a period of ten years or until such time as terminated
by either BioQuant or the University in the event of a material breach
by the other party of its obligations under the license agreement;
beyond said ten year period the agreement may continue on a year to
year basis with the consent of both parties; the financial terms of this
agreement include ten percent (10%) of net sales derived from simple
ascites or tissue culture supernatants containing antibody(s), eight
percent (8%) of net sales derived from processed antibody(s) for
research purposes, four percent (4%) of net sales derived from in vitro
product(s) generally, and one and one-half percent (1.5%) of net sales
derived from in vivo product(s) and special in vitro products involving
small quantities of antibody relative to cost of production for the
product; BioQuant agrees to use its best efforts to develop diagnostic
and therapeutic product(s) and to market antibody(s) and product(s);
the contract does not include the use of University facilities or services
of University employees.
3.  The Founders' pecuniary interests arise from their ownership of the
proposed licensee, BioQuant. Should BioQuant successfully
commercialize the University's intellectual property, BioQuant will
receive revenues from sale of products and the University will receive
royalties from BioQuant.
Proposed Licensing Agreement between The University of Michigan and a Start-Up
Small Business Incorporated and Owned by University Employees (QCS)
The Regents unanimously approved a licensing agreement between The
University of Michigan and a corporation known as QCS, Incorporated (QCS). This
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest statute, since the
owners of QCS (Mark Sanz, Michael T. LeFree, and Joseph Sitomer) are University
employees. The following information is provided in compliance with the statutory
requirements of the Conflict of Interest Statute:
1.  Parties to the contract will be The University of Michigan and QCS, a
corporation wholly owned by Dr. Mark Sanz, Mr. Michael T. LeFree,
and Mr. Joseph Sitomer.
2.  Terms of the contract include: duration starting February 20, 1988 and
continuing until such time as terminated by QCS upon sixty days notice


-193 -



February Meeting, 1988


to the University or until terminated by the University in the event of a
material breach by QCS of its obligations under the license agreement;
the financial terms of this agreement include a royalty of ten percent
paid to the University on that portion of gross revenues derived from
the licensing, sublicensing, sales or other distribution of software and
documentation; QCS agrees to use its best efforts to effectively
commercialize software and documentation; the contract does not
include the use of University facilities or services of University
employes.
3.  Dr. Sanz, Mr. LeFree and Mr. Sitomer's pecuniary interests arise from
their ownership of the proposed assignee, QCS. Should QCS
successfully commercialize the University's intellectual property, QCS
will receive revenues from sale or sublicensing of products and the
University will receive royalties from QCS.
Proposed Royalty Agreement Between The University of Michigan and a Start-Up
Small Business Incorporated and Owned by University Employees (QCS)
The Regents also unanimously approved a royalty agreement between The
University of Michigan and a corporation known as QCS, Incorporated (QCS). This
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest statute, since the
owners of QCS (Mark Sanz, Michael T. LeFree, and Joseph Sitomer) are University
employees. The following information is provided in compliance with the statutory
requirements of the Conflict of Interest Statute:
1.  Parties to the contract will be The University of Michigan and QCS, a
corporation wholly owned by Dr. Mark Sanz, Mr. Michael T. LeFree,
and Mr. Joseph Sitomer.
2.  Terms of the contract include: duration starting February 20, 1988 and
continuing until such time as terminated by QCS upon sixty days notice
to the University or until terminated by the University in the event of a
material breach by QCS of its obligations under the royalty agreement;
the financial terms of this agreement include a royalty of five percent
paid to the University on that portion of gross revenues derived from
the licensing, sublicensing, sales or other distribution of software and
documentation; in order to assist QCS in the start-up of its business
operation, QCS will not be obligated to pay the University a royalty on
the first $150,000 of revenues derived from cardiac image analysis
software and documentation; QCS agrees to use its best efforts to
effectively commercialize software and documentation; the contract
does not include the use of University facilities or services of University
employes.
3.  Dr. Sanz, Mr. LeFree and Mr. Sitomer's pecuniary interests arise from
their ownership of the proposed assignee, QCS. Should QCS
successfully commercialize the University's intellectual property, QCS
will receive revenues from sale or sublicensing of products and the
University will receive royalties from QCS.


-194 -



February Meeting, 1988


Proposed Contract Between The University of Michigan and The Michigan Office of
Substance Abuse Services (OSAS), and Subcontracts with the Corner Health Center
(CORNER) and Leaders in Prevention (LIP)
This item involves a joint proposal that was awarded by the Michigan Office of
Substance Abuse Services (OSAS) to a Consortium consisting of The University of
Michigan, the Corner Health Center (CORNER), and Leaders in Prevention (LIP)
that would provide a series of programs aimed at the prevention of licit and illicit drug
abuse. After announcement of the award, OSAS and the University's contracts
officials jointly decided that to simplify administration and lines of responsibility, the
contract would be structured as a single contract between OSAS and the University,
with two sub-contracts from the University to each of the two other entities. Because
both CORNER and LIP board and staff have individuals who hold University
appointments, these contracts fall within the Conflict of Interest statute.
The Regents voted unanimously to approve the contract and subcontract. The
following information is provided in compliance with the statutory requirements:
1. Parties to the contracts will be The University of Michigan, as Prime
Contractor, and CORNER and LIP as subcontractors.
2. Pursuant to the subcontracts, CORNER will receive $50,000 for the
development of dramatic performances and related teaching materials
for use in school settings, and LIP will receive $50,000 for development
of its organization, and implementation of initial educational and
training programs relating to the prevention of drug and alcohol abuse
among Ypsilanti and Ann Arbor teenagers.
3. The following Board and Staff members of CORNER hold the positions
indicated with the University:
Nature of         Paid by Corner   Paid by
Name                 Affiliation       Health Center    U of M
Johan Eliot      Professor, School of     No              Yes
Public Health
Arlene Huff      Social Worker,           No              Yes
Women's Hospital
Kathleen Long   Instructor, Parent-       No              Yes
Child Nursing
David Share     Instructor, Dept. of      Yes             No
Family Practice
Mindy Smith      Asst. Professor, Dept. of  No            Yes
Family Practice
Rotating Fam.    House Officers,          No              Yes
Practice         Dept. of Family Practice
Residents
(6/year)
N.B.: Dr. David Share donates his services to the Univ. of Michigan
4.  The following Board and Staff members of LIP hold the positions indicated
with the University:


-195 -



February Meeting, 1988


Name


Nature of
Affiliation


Paid by
LIP


Paid by
UofM


Denise Bristol
Greg Harden
Teresa Herzog
Gerald Jernigan
Henry Johnson
Lloyd Johnson
Howard King
Beth Reed
Bo Schembechler
Millie Schembechler
*Harold T. Shapiro
Arch Wright


Hum. Res. & Dev.
Consultant
UM Health Services
UM Investment Off.
VP Stud. Services
Inst. of Soc. Res.
Voice of Michigan
Football
Sch. of Social Wk.
UM Coach
None
President of UM
Student, UM


No
Yes


(1/4 time)


No
No
No
No
No


Yes
Consulting
fees only
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes


No
No


Yes
Yes


No
No


Yes
No


*Status in effect only through 12/31/87


Proposed Subcontract Between The University of Michigan and
Foundation


Community Systems


The University has been awarded a contract from the Great Lakes Fishery
Commission. William D. Drake of the School of Natural Resources will be appointed
to the project account for 4% of his effort. Dr. Drake currently holds a 55%
appointment in the School of Natural Resources. The project will subcontract with
the Community Systems Foundation (CSF), an Ann Arbor-based nonprofit 501(c) (3)
tax exempt organization incorporated in the State of Michigan. The proposed
subcontract falls under the State Conflict of Interest Statute, since Dr. Drake is both
an employee of the University and an officer of the subcontractor. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement will be The University of Michigan and
Community Systems Foundation.
2.  The agreement is consistent with standard University subcontract terms
and conditions. There are no publication restrictions for the University.
CSF will use its own facilities and personnel to perform the subcontract.
The subcontract is for $9,970 and runs nine months, beginning January
1, 1988.
3.  William Drake will sign the agreement as President of CSF. Dr.
Drake's effort on the project will be reimbursed through his University
appointment as described above.
The Regents unanimously approved the subcontract as outlined above.
Proposed Licensing Agreement Between The University of Michigan and a Start-Up
Small Business Incorporated and Owned by a University Employee (Scientia)
The Regents unanimously approved a licensing agreement between the
University and a business known as Sclentia Corporation (Scientia). Scientia is owned


-196 -



February Meeting, 1988


by Daniel J. Fox, an employee of the University's Statistical Research Laboratory
(SRL). Therefore the agreement falls within the state Conflict of Interest statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with the statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Scientia, a
Michigan corporation wholly owned by Mr. Daniel J. Fox.
2.  Terms of the contract include: a duration starting February 20, 1988
and continuing for a period of fifteen years or until such time as
terminated by either Scientia or the University in the event of a
material breach by the other party of its obligations under the license
agreement; the financial terms of this agreement include, for a period of
ten years, a ten percent royalty, and, for the five years after this ten year
period, a royalty of five percent paid to the University; during the initial
three year period of the agreement the University will allow the
minimum of necessary use by Scientia of Statistical Research
Laboratory (SRL) computers and other related SRL equipment for
Scientia's research and development of derivative software, but such use
shall occur during non-business hours of the University and at time
which do not interfere with the operations of SRL; the contract does not
include services of University employees.
3.  Mr. Fox's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of the proposed
licensee, Scientia. Should Scientia successfully commercialize the
University's intellectual property, Scientia will receive revenues from
sale or licensing of products and the University will receive royalties
from Scientia.
Regent Roach pointed out that this particular contract was slightly unusual in
that the other contracts involved no use of University personnel or facilities. In this
case, there is a limited use of University facilities. He asked whether there are
procedures in place to control such use, and whether there are controls to ensure that
such procedures are followed.
Mr. Brinkerhoff explained that this is an unusual case, in that it is really
formalizing something that has occurred under prior vice presidents. The principal
will be paying the direct costs for the use of the facilities, even though they are being
used off-hours. A monitoring committee has been established also, to review that
what is actually happening is consistent with the intent expressed within the
agreements.
Regent Power observed that the presence of the intellectual property items on
the agenda is evidence of the University's attitudes and procedures with respect to
entrepreneurial and technology transfer endeavors. As a center of research, the
University has an obligation to facilitate the transfer of technology out of the
laboratory into the public domain through the entrepreneurial system. He was
pleased to see that the University collaborates and cooperates with entrepreneurs
within the University to commercialize their inventions. Regent Nielsen stated that he
agrees with Regent Power, but feels that the University should reduce the share it
retains and give more to the individual entrepreneurs.


-197 -



February Meeting, 1988


Audit Report: The University of Michigan Donor Pooled Fund for Year Ended
December 31, 1987
The Regents accepted the audit report for the Donor Pooled Income Fund
prepared by University Auditors for the year ended December 31, 1987.
Membership in the Center for Research on Doctoral Education
The Regents approved institutional membership in the Association of American
Universities (AAU)/Association of Graduate Schools (AGS) Center for Research on
Doctoral Education.
Membership in National Spinal Cord Injury Association
The Regents approved purchase by the Department of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation of lifetime membership in the National Spinal Cord Injury Association.
Membership for Dr. L. George Upton in the American Association of Oral and
Maxillofacial Surgeons
The Regents approved payment of annual dues to the American Association of
Oral and Maxillofaciat Surgeons for Dr. L. George Upton of the Dental School.
Membership for Dr. Edward Ellis in the Michigan Dental Association and the
American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons
The Regents approved payment of annual dues to the Michigan Dental
Association and the American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons for Dr.
Edward Ellis of the Dental School.
Membership for Dr. Surender Nanda in the American Association of Orthodontists
The Regents approved membership in the American Association of
Orthodontists for Dr. Surender Nanda of the Dental School.
Memberships
In response to a question from Regent Nielsen, Provost Duderstadt said that
once memberships are approved by the Regents, they are automatically renewed every
year unless the fee changes, in which case they are brought back to the Regents for
approval. Regent Roach suggested that due to recent changes in tax laws, dues to
professional associations ought to be studied in terms of the total compensation
packages offered staff members. Provost Duderstadt agreed that a review of the
situation is in order.
Residence Halls Rates
The Regents approved average increases of 5.6% for residence halls and 5.8%
for family housing apartments for the 1988-89 school year, as recommended by the
student/staff rate committees.


-198 -



February Meeting, 1988


Master of Physical Therapy Degree Program, UM-Flint
The Regents approved a proposal to replace the current B.S. degree in physical
therapy with a Master of Physical Therapy program, as outlined in the proposal
included in the agenda.
Recommendations for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
The Regents approved several appointments to medical staff membership.
University-Owned Property near the Church Street Parking Structure
Regent Baker stated that he had been contacted by a local developer, as had
other Regents, who would like to acquire a University-owned parcel of land on Church
Street, near the Church Street parking structure. The developer indicated he may
hold an option on that property, on which the University is currently constructing an
electrical substation. The continued construction of the electrical substation would
make the property no longer available to the developer, who desires to build a large
commercial complex which includes 300,000 square feet of building on the four
corners, plus a 350-room hotel, some condominiums, and a 1000-car parking structure.
Regent Baker noted for the record a letter, dated April 26, 1982, from the University
Counsel to the developer's attorney referring to the developer's request to extend an
existing option that "The University has reviewed the request contained in your letter
of March 31, 1982, and has decided not to grant an extension of the option to purchase
the property at Washtenaw and Forest." Since the electrical substation is under
construction and the land is not available for sale, Regent Baker also requested that
no further action be taken on disposal of this property until all of the Regents have
had a chance to review file materials relating to the matter. Regent Baker noted that
a similar proposal in 1979 had been a matter of considerable controversy in the city of
Ann Arbor.
Vice President Brinkerhoff stated that the University had intended to offer the
developer a means to purchase the property in question by having him provide an
alternative site for the University and pay all related costs. Negotiations regarding this
option are currently underway. Regent Nielsen said that he is comfortable with the
course of action that Vice President Brinkerhoff is pursuing. President Fleming
suggested that all the Regents be provided an opportunity to review the background
material on the project.
Regent Baker noted that the proposed development is to occur on the primary
easterly entrance to the University, and that the Regents should carefully review all
aspects of such a massive development and its effect on the community and the
University before committing the key piece of land to a development over which the
University would then have no control. For this reason, it is important to have a full
and open public discussion about it. Vice President Brinkerhoff said that a proposed
transaction regarding this property is scheduled to come before the Board during the
March meeting, and that no transaction could occur without the Board's approval.
Regents Nielsen and Power suggested that no motion is needed in order for Vice
President Brinkerhoff to continue to explore the various options in an orderly manner
prior to bringing a proposed action to the Board for approval.


-199 -



February Meeting, 1988


Presidential Policy Statement on Sexual Orientation
President Fleming asked that the Regents act on the request by LaGROC to
incorporate the Presidential Policy Statement on Sexual Orientation into the Bylaws,
using language which LaGROC believes answers previously stated objections of the
Regents to taking such action. He asked for a motion to do so; none was forthcoming.
Regent Roach stated that President Fleming's proposal on student discipline for
incidents of harassment on campus might work toward resolving some of the problems
faced by the community represented by LaGROC. President Fleming said that his
proposal is being redrafted, and will be circulated again within a few weeks, after
which the Board will have a chance to comment on it.
There being no further business to come before the Board, the meeting was
adjourned. The next meeting will take place on March 17-18, 1988. Transportation,
accommodation, and related expenses for the month of January 1988 totalled
$8,937.27.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secret


-200 -



MARCH MEETING, 1988


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, March 17, 1988
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were Interim President Fleming and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen,
Power, Roach, Smith, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy and Vice
Presidents Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson were also present, as were
Chancellors Jenkins and Jones. Regent Varner and Provost Duderstadt were absent.
Associate Vice President Holbrook attended the meeting for Provost Duderstadt.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
approved the minutes of the meeting of February 18 and 19, 1988.
Michigan Student Assembly Fiscal Report
President Fleming then introduced Michigan Student Assembly (MSA)
executive officers Ken Weine (President), Wendy Sharp (Executive Vice President),
and John Garber (Chief Financial Officer) to present the 1986-87 fiscal report (see
enclosure). Mr. Garber reviewed the Michigan Student Assembly Annual Report for
fiscal year 1986-87, beginning with the Balance Sheet showing assets and liabilities of
$58,114. For the year-ended August 31, 1987 MSA had a fund balance of $39,034,
compared to $25,529 on August 31, 1986. In reviewing the Schedule of External
Allocations approved and Substantiated Expenses Reimbursed, he explained that
reimbursements are not made until receipts for expenses are provided by the
individual student organizations.
In response to a question by Regent Baker as to where expenditures made on
behalf of PIRGIM are to be found, Mr. Garber explained that no funds were allocated
to PIRGIM until after the period covered by this report. Regent Baker also inquired
whether any of the $15,113 allocated to the Tenants' Union was used to advocate the
rent control proposal that is on the ballot for the Ann Arbor election in April. The
response was no; advocacy for that initiative has been handled by the group Citizens
for Fair Rent, and there is no financial connection between the Tenants' Union and
Citizens for Fair Rent.
Regent Power asked Mr. Garber to explain the difference between the $21,512
in allocations approved and the $18,369 in substantiated expenses reimbursed. Mr.
Garber said that the Budget Priorities Committee receives requests for allocations
from student organizations which are approved or disapproved. Then the Assembly
votes on whether or not to approve the amounts allocated by the Budget Priorities
Committee. Expenses are not actually reimbursed until the student group provides
receipts for expenses, and expenses are only reimbursed for the amount shown on the
receipt. The discrepancy in amounts allocated versus amounts reimbursed occurs
when allocations made do not match the amounts subsequently documented by
receipts. The MSA officers did not know what the time limit is for submission of
expense receipts. Regent Power asked that MSA provide the Regents with a report


-201 -



March Meeting, 1988


documenting the approximately $3,000 outstanding differential between allocations
and reimbursements.
Regent Baker asked for an explanation of why an allocation made to the
Environmental Law Society for $993 was only reimbursed for $89. Regent Power
raised the issue of an MSA officer who was reported by the Michigan Daily to have
altered receipts charged to MSA for reimbursement, and asked where such
expenditures are classified in this report and what internal procedures are in place to
prevent this type of incident from happening again. Mr. Garber explained that this
type of expense is shown in the category of "General Expenses" in the Statement of
Revenues, Expenses and Changes in Fund Balance. He stated that the officer
involved in the incident described by Regent Power has resigned, and that the
Assembly's Steering Committee is doing an internal investigation of the incident and
of what mechanisms are in place to insure that such an incident could not happen
again. The committee will a so be meeting with Vice President Johnson to further
resolve the matter. Regent Power asked that the Regents be informed of what
internal controls are eventually instituted.
Regent Smith asked whether the $7,000 increase in personnel expenses was
related to administration of the PIRGIM funds. Mr. Garber explained that the
PIRGIM refunding didn't start until the current fiscal year, and that the increase was
due to replacing a temporary administrative assistant with a permanent one, and to the
hiring of additional work-study and part-time student employees. Mr. Weine stated
that a part-time student job has been created and filled to handle the PIRGIM
refunding mechanism, and that MSA would provide the Regents with data on the cost
of that employee.
Following further discussion about the merits of a positive versus a negative
check-off system for funding of PIRGIM, the Regents voted to receive the MSA report
on a motion by Regent Power seconded by Regent Smith.
Dearborn Campus Renovation Project
Vice President Brinkerhoff introduced University Planner Fred Mayer to
respond to concerns that had been raised at the last Regents' meeting about the new
construction phase of the Dearborn Campus Renovation Project. The concerns had to
do with the siting of the Science and Computer Center Building and with architectural
details of that building and the proposed auditorium building. Mr. Mayer introduced
Mr. William McGiven, of Johnson, Johnson and Roy, to review the general site plan
for the Dearborn campus and how the proposed new buildings fit into it. Following
Mr. McGiven's presentation, Regents Baker and Brown still had concerns with the
proposed placement of the Science and Computer Center Building in such a manner
that it would jut into an area of open space, rather than being placed more on the
perimeter of the campus. Mr. McGiven and the architect, Mr. Jack Garrison,
explained their view that the building would be placed along the natural edge of a
wooded area adjacent to an open space, and that it would not be breaking up an open
space. They also described the functional necessity for the computer building to be
placed as close to the library as possible.
Regent Roach moved to approve the plan; Regent Waters seconded the motion.
Regent Power stated that he found it difficult to make a decision without having
personally viewed the site. Further discussion followed on the historical importance of
the Regents' giving very careful consideration to site plans and on the merits of
preserving as much open space as possible. Chancellor Jenkins stated that the


-202 -



March Meeting, 1988


Dearborn campus community was in complete agreement on this plan, and that if
construction was not underway by September 1988, the University was in danger of
losing the funding for the project. Regent Power moved to amend Regent Roach's
motion to state that the Regents would visit the site following the completion of the
rest of their business the next day. They would then reconvene on the Dearborn
campus for the vote. Regent Smith seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The architect then responded to the Regents' concerns of last month regarding
the concept of arches and vertical elements that are being planned for the new
buildings, and said that they have reduced the scale of the arches and softened the
lines of the vertical plaster. Regent Baker said that the revised designs were a
considerable improvement.
Reports
Vice President Brinkerhoff submitted the monthly reports of Investment
Transactions, Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations.
Investment Report. Regent Roach noted the excellent job being done by the
Investment Office on the management of the University's temporary investments
compared to the benchmarks. He pointed out that for the current month, the
University's yield has gone up, while every other index has gone down, and that this
type of performance has been consistent for a long period of time. Regent Power also
commented on the fine performance of the University's staff in managing temporary
investments.
Plant Extension Report. Vice President Brinkerhoff explained that the reason
for the delay in the completion date from September 1988 to January 1989 of the
Angell Hall Courtyard Computer Terminal and Lab Facility had to do with a
subsidiary bid. He said that care would be taken not to do noisy construction while
classes are in session.
Litigation Report. Vice President Brinkerhoff noted that the Litigation Report
contained six new cases, which is highly unusual, and he described the particular
circumstances of each new case.
Personnel-Labor Relations Report. In reviewing the Personnel-Labor Relations
Report, Vice President Brinkerhoff stated that the security employees had elected to
be represented by the Michigan Association of Police, and that collective bargaining
with that union would probably begin by the end of the month.
Student Services Report. Regent Power stated that he had read with
considerable interest this report on special programs and services provided to students
through the Housing division, and asked about specific long-term policy objectives in
this area. Vice President Johnson said that some of his concerns are addressed in the
report. President Fleming said that a session would be scheduled for the Regents
addressing the questions raised by Regent Power with respect to policy objectives,
programs, and issues in the area of University housing.
Research Reports. Vice President Wilson reviewed her monthly reports of
Awards Received and Summaries of a Collection of Current Research and Sponsored
Projects. Regent Power noted that for him, the Summaries are one of the most
interesting parts of the agenda. Vice President Wilson and President Fleming said


-203 -



March Meeting, 1988


that plans are underway to have researchers themselves present their work at future
Regents' Meetings.
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously received the reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted the Report of Gifts Received, Listing of
Gifts of $5,000 and above, and the Campaign Phase II Report for the month of
February 1988. Regent Baker commended Vice President Cosovich for the excellent
job being done by him and his staff. The Regents voted unanimously to receive these
reports.
American Cancer Society, Inc.. New York, New York
for research in the Medical School, and the College of Pharmacy          90,286
American Diabetes Association, Michigan Affiliate, Inc., Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                       23,750
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield New Jersey
for the American Foundation Education Fellowships in the College of Pharmacy  13,583
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                       106,813
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School, and in the Division of Physical Education  105,422
American Lung Association of Michigan Lansing
for research in the Medical School                                        18,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                           5,450
Robert Arthur Estate
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                    43,560
Melissa Bearden, Leslie
for pediatric research in the Medical School                               5,325
Clifford 0. Berg Estate
for support of the Biological Station, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Robert L. Bluemle Paradise Valley Arizona
for the Roy F. Proffitt Loan Fund in the Law School                       5,000
Brass Ring Productions, Prophet Productions, Limited Royal Oak
for support of the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital                          5,000
Floydene B. Brownlee Bloomfield Hills
for support of tie Michigan League                                        5,000
Canonie, Inc., Muskegon
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                           15,000
Centocor, Inc. Malvern, Pennsylvania
for nuclear medicine research in the Medical School                       25,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                        12,299
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts                                               12,085
Dayton-Hudson Department Store Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Summer Shakespeare Repertory Theatre, The University of Michigan-Flint  6,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                        21,250
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Thomas S. Monahan Visiting Professorship in the College of
Architecture and Urban Planning                                           15,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for support of the College of Engineering                                 5,000
Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Foundation, New York New York
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                          6,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                           9,450


-204 -



March Meeting, 1988


Farbenfabriken Bayer GMBH, Wupertal, West Germany
for pharmacology support in the Medical School                            5,000
Frederick J. Fisher Estate
for child development and children's orthopedic research in the Medical School  1,358,863
O.C. Fischer, Inc. Royal Oak
for research in the Medical School in memory of Oswald C. Fischer        25,000
Henry L. Foster, Newton, Massachusetts
pledge payment for the Sumner J. and Laura Foster Economics Library
m the Colege of Literature, Science and Arts                              5,000
Fraternal Order ofEagles Memorial Foundation Fund, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the Louise Madsen Memorial Fund in the Medical School                 5,000
Katherine B. Hagler Estate
for support of the Henry Ford Estate at the Fair Lane, The University
of Miciigan-Dearborn                                                     17,241
J. Ira and Nickiharris Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
pledge payments for the J. Ira Harr ns Funds in the School of Business Administration  350,000
Pamela S. Hyde, Sunbury, Ohio
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                5,000
ITT Automotive Group, BIoomfield Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Institute of Science and Technology  5,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health               126,244
S. C. Johnson & Son Inc., Racine, Wisconsin
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration      5,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
pledge payment for the Presidential Initiatives fund                   1,000,000
Kenny Michigan Rehabilitation Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                        7,042
Noboru Kikuchi, Ann Arbor
for support of the Coflege of Engineering                                 6,700
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh
for the Forney W. Clement Memorial for patient care activities,
The University of Michigan Hospitals                                      9,393
Loyal E. Luikart, Jr. Cleveland, Ohio
for the Loyal E. Luikart III Scholarship in the School of Music           5,000
Bernard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Raoul Wallenberg Scholarship in the College
of Architecture and Urban Planning, and for the Matthaei Botanical
Gardens in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts                7,750
A. Fred Madaus Trust
for scholarships in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning,
and for support of the Center for the Continuing Education of Women      82,828
Margoes Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the John A. Margoes Scholarship in the Medical School                 7,000
Richard H. May Charitable Trust, Bloomfield Hills
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                5,250
Thomas B. McDonalds Slaneateles, New York
for the International Heart Surgery Program in the Medical School        60,000
Linda L. McGuigan, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                5,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research                      5,720
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for support of the Humanities Institute, College of Literature, Science and the Arts  50,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey
for gifts pending designation in the School of Business Administration,
and for research in the Medical School                                   41,500
Merck Company Foundation Rahway. New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund  10,310
Mette Foundation, Detroit
for the Norman Mette Scholarship in the Medical School                    9,400
Michigan Bell Telephone Company, Detroit
for the Center for Fitness and Sports Research in the Division of Physical Education  5,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation Flint
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                         12,680
Thelma Fox Murray Trust
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                   15,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                       16,542


-205 -



March Meeting, 1988


Needmor Found, Boulder, Colorado
pledge payment for the Professor L. Hart Wright Memorial in the Law School  25,000
Newmont Minig Corporation, New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration        5,000
Jessie Smith Noyes Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for chemical engineerin research in the College of Engineering          34,954
Charles K. Olcott, Lake Wells, Florida
Canberra Industries, Inc., common stock; for ophthalmology support in the
Medical School                                                           9,830
Parker-Hannifin Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for support of the Law School, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund      12,100
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Inc., Washington, D.C.
for research in the Medical School, and for fellowships in the College of Pharmacy  9,526
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for Employee Matching Gifts                                               5,253
Margaret A. and John E. Riecker, Midland
Dow Chemical Company common stock pledge payment for the Margaret
A. and John E. Riecker Endowment in the Law School                       9,824
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarship Trust,
Burlingon, Massachusetts; for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial Fund in the
Medical School                                                           11,245
Jane Schaefer, San Francisco, California
Emerson Electric common stock; pledge payment for the President's fund   10,106
Edward I. Schalon, Grand Haven
pledge payment for chemical sciences facility, in the College of
Literature Science and the Arts                                         20,000
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc. Madison, New Jersey
tor the Robert P. Luciano Fund in the Law School                         10,000
Arch W. Shaw Foundation, Chicago Illinois
for support of the Shady Trails Speech and Hearing Camp in the School of Education  5,000
Fred E. Shaw Trust
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                    8,011
Sheller-Globe Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
pledge payment for capital support in the School of Business Administration  10,000
Sledd Founlafion, Fort Wayne Indiana
for the Samuel D. Martha B., and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School  6,062
George E. Sperling, Jr., Pebble Beach California
for the George E. and Elizabeth Sperling Endowment in the Law School    20,000
Helmut Stern Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Helmut Stern Fund in the Museum of Art                           16,000
Textron Charitable Trust, Providence Rhode Island
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                         8,900
Theragenics Corporation, Atlanta, Georgia
for chemotherapy research in the Medical School                         15,000
Therex Corporation, Walpole, Massachusetts
for chemotherapy research in the Medical School                         10,500
Preston R. Tisch Philanthropic Fund, New York New York
pledge payment for the Replacement Hospital Project                      25,000
United-Cerebral Palsy Research & Educational Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                      43,336
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for support of the College of Engineering                                15,000
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for research and training in the Medical School, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund 35,833
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for rheumatology laboratory renovation and other support in the Medical School  22,750
Xerox Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for macromolecular research in the Institute of Science and
Technology, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund                         10,480
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Marian S. Carson, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
eight items of early 9th century printed and manuscript materials; for the Clements Library
Graphic mpressions, Inc., Oshtemo
lithograph preparation services for informational brochures; for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens
Group 243 Design, Inc., Ann Arbor
design, typeset, and keyline services for informational brochures; for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens


-206 -



March Meeting, 1988


Mead Merchants, Detroit
13,000 sheets of text weight paper for informational brochures; for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens
Microtek Laboratories, Inc., Gardenia, California
An M5-300 image scanner; for the Office of Development and Communication
University Lithoprinters, Inc., Ann Arbor
Ink and printing services for 38,200 informational brochures; for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens
Personnel Actions
Associate Vice President Holbrook reviewed the Personnel Actions for the Ann
Arbor Campus, and Chancellor Jones reviewed those for the Flint campus. On a
motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents approved the
following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1988
Philip Kerr, Diploma, Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure, September 1, 1988
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on dates indicated
Lowell David Greer Associate Professor of Music, September 1, 1988
Farris W. Womack, Ed.D., Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Professor of Education
July 1, 1988
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Lawrence S. Berlin Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, reappointed Associate Dean of
School of Education, August 1, 1988
Ivan F. Duff, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to teach a class in the Medical
School, January 1, 1988 for a one-year period
Richard W. Fortner Professor of Management, with tenure, reappointed Dean, School of Management,
UM-Flint, July 1, 1988 for a three-year term
C. Philip Kearney, Professor of Education, with tenure, reappointed Associate Dean, School of
Education, September 1, 1988, for a one-year periodc
Lawrence D. Kugler Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, reappointed Dean of the College of Arts
and Science, UJM-Flint, July 1, 1988 for a five-year period
James A. McLean, Professor Emeritus of internal Medicine, reappointed to teach a class in the Medical
School, January 1, 1988 for a one-year period
William L. Root, Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering and Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, reappointed to complete work for the College of Engineering, April 1, 1988,
for a twelve-month period
William S. Smith, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, reappointed to teach a class in the Medical School,
March 1, 1988 for a one-year period
The following committee appointment was approved by the Regents:
Board in Control of Intercolleiate Athletics
Steven W. Roeder, student member, for the period ending May 31, 1989


-207 -



March Meeting, 1988


Establishment of the Aldred Scott Warthin Carl Vernon Weller Professorship of
Pathology
The Regents approved the establishment of the Aldred Scott Warthin Carl
Vernon Weller Professorship of Pathology, effective April 1, 1988.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following Personnel Reports:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective February 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Visiting Professor
Touvia Miloh, Ph.D., Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, January 1, 1988
VisitineAssociate Professor
ailaLauno Ph.D. Pharmacy
Maija H. Zile, Ph.., Pharmacology
Visitin Assistant Professor
William R. Levin, Ph.D., Center for Western European Studies, July 1, 1988
Kevin McKeigue, Ph.D., Chemical Engineering
4siting Lecturer
Piotr Kotelncki, Ph.D., Center for Russian and East European Studies, January 1, 1988
Adiunct Associate Professor
Osman D. Altan, Ph.D., Electrical and Computer Engineering, UM-Dearborn, January 1, 1988
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Arthur E. Cole, Jr., Industrial and Systems Engineering, UM-Dearborn, January 1, 1988
Sylvia N. Jones, Ph.D., Education, January 1, 1988
Adiunct Lecturer
Alan G. Edwards, B.SA., Education, UM-Dearborn, January 1, 1988
Pamela J. Johnson, M.S., Nursing, September 1, 1987
David F. Jorlett, M.., Music, January 1, 1988
Hyun C. Lee Ph.D. Industrial and Operations Engineering, January 1,1988
Loch O. McCabe, M;S. Economics, UM-Flint, January 1, I988
Elizabeth Nolan, M.S., Nursing, September 1, 1987
Vickie L. Sadler M.FA. Music, January 1, 1988
Connie S. Tambling, M., Foreign Languages, UM-Flint, January 1, 1988
Nancy H. Wrobel, MA. Psychology, UM-Fint, January 1, 1988
Mark D. Zahn, D.D.S., bentistry, anuary 1,1988
Clinical Professor
Ronald Burkman, M.D  Obstetrics and Gynecology, September 1 1987
Malcolm D. Graham, M.D., Otorhinolaryngology,December 1, 1987
Clinical Assciate Professor
Jalil Farah, M.D., Radiology, September 1, 1987
Clinical Instructor
Bruce F. Knoll, M.D., Surgery
Mahine Mohajery D.D.S., M.S., Dentistry, January 11, 1988
Vernon C. Unch, M.D., Surgery


-208 -



March Meeting, 1988


PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF
INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Garane A. Garane, from Adjunct Lecturer to Adjunct Assistant Professor of Foreign Languages,
UM-Flint, January 1 1988
Ted L. Rice, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor I of Pharmacy, January 22, 1988
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Sabbatical
Wayne N. Colquitt, Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, February 15, 1988 for a six-month
period
Gary M. Glazer, Professor of Radiology, with tenure, January 1, 1988, for a six-month period
Roger F. Haskett, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, March 1 1988 for a six-month period
John T. Headington, Professor of Pathology, with tenure, and Professor of Dermatology, without tenure
January 15, 1988, for a six-month perod
Martin L. Norton, Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Otorhinolaryngology, without tenure, March 1, 1988 for a nine-month period
DuN off Campus
Isadore A. ternstein, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, and Professor of Environmental
and Industrial Health, with tenure,lanuary 1, 1988i for a four-month period
Brian A. Burt, Chairman and Professor of Dental Public Health, with tenure, and Professor
of Community Health Programs, without tenure, March 1, 1988 for a two-month period
Extended Sick
Susan R. Barry Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, December 21, 1987 for a
two-week period
Sunil K. Das Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, December 7, 1987 for a one-month
period
Leslie E. Quint, Assistant Professor of Radiology, February 8, 1988 for a two-month period
Retirement Furlough
John A. Jacques, Professor of Physiology, with tenure, also Professor of Biostatistics, without tenure,
March 1, 1988 for a three-month period
Leave without Salary
Susan R. Barry, Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitiation, January 8, 1988
for a five-week period
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Adiunct Associate Professor
Rebecca J. Anderson, Environmental and Industrial Health, February 29, 1988
Adiunct Lecturer
Mary H. Parise Dentistry, December 31, 1987
Eleftherios E. Zervoudakis, Dentistry, January 31, 1988
Clinical Professor
James H. Thrall, Radiology, December 31, 1987
Clinical Associate Professor
Fernanda G. Diaz, Surgery, January 31, 1988
Clinical Assistant Professor
Michael E. Katz, Radiology, January 31, 1988
Clinical Instructor
Lauren E. Leedom Pharmacy January 20, 1988
Diane M. Klemer, Pharmac, January 20,1988
William H. O'Rourke, Pharmacy, January 20, 1988


-209 -



March Meeting, 1988


Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously adopted the following retirement memoir:
Ann D. Hungerman, Professor of Education, retired from active faculty status as
of December 31, 1987, after twenty-four years of service to The University of
Michigan.
Professor Hungerman received her B.M. degree magna cum laude from
Marygrove College in 1948, her M.Ed. degree from Wayne State University in 1953,
and her Ph.D. degree from The University of Michigan in 1965. She was employed by
Detroit Public Schools as an elementary school teacher of vocal music from 1948-58,
teaching assistant principal from 1958-59, and assistant principal from 1959-64. From
1957-58, Professor Hungerman was also an instructor at Wayne State University. She
was appointed to the faculty of The University of Michigan as an instructor in 1964,
promoted to assistant professor in 1966, associate professor in 1970, and professor in
1975.
During her tenure at-The University of Michigan, Professor Hungerman
pursued an active career as a distinguished educator with numerous publications in
two areas of her expertise: teacher preparation and school mathematics. She taught
courses related to elementary education -- curriculum, methods of teaching and
mathematics -- and directed disserations in these areas. Her keen interest in students,
her willingness to be available for wise counsel, and the high standards she set
endeared her to all who came under her wise tutelage. Her devotion to students and
special understanding of undergraduates has made her one of the most beloved faculty
members in the history of the school. Her expert and practical knowledge of schools
earned her great respect from teachers and administrators. She was recognized as a
teacher par excellence and as an outstanding scholar.
In addition to her teaching responsibilities, Professor Hungerman held
important positions in the School of Education as chair of the undergraduate program,
the graduate committee, and the program in curriculum and instruction, and as a
member of the school's executive committee. In the University at large, she not only
served on senate committees, but also was a member of the senate assembly and the
Rackham scholarship review committee. She was honored by membership in Phi
Kappa Phi, Pi Lambda Theta, Phi Delta Kappa, Iota Gamma Alpha, and Kappa
Gamma Pi. She was a member of the American Educational Research Association,
the National Society for the Study of Education, the Association for Supervision and
Curriculum Development, the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics, the
American Association of Colleges of Teacher Education, the Michigan Association of
Teacher Educators, and the American Association of Higher Education. She was a
frequent speaker at state and national professional meetings and acted as a consultant
to both the Michigan Department of Education and local school systems.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and outstanding scholar by
naming Ann Hungerman Professor Emeritus of Education.
Memorials
Vice President Kennedy noted the deaths of two faculty members during the
past month: Robert Brower, Professor of Japanese Language and Literature and
Arthur Mendel, Professor of History. Formal memorial statements for these
professors will be submitted at the April meeting.


-210 -



March Meeting, 1988


Degrees
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Regents approved
the following amendments to the degree lists:
School of Art
Bachelor of Fine Arts, May 2, 1987
delete  Charles Phillip Reay, Jr.
Residential College
Bachelor of Arts, December 22 1987
add:    Youngoon Choi
DavidLawrence Givens
P. Kevin Gray
Timothy Michael Schaden
correct to show: Teresa Tsai with Distinction
Bachelor of Science, December 22 1987
add:   Anthony Von King
correct to show: Philip Douglas MacKenzie with Honors in Computer Science
High Honors in Mathematics with Highest Distinction
Nabeel Shihadeh Kandah
Bachelor in General Studies, December 22, 1987
add:   John Kennedy Fohrman
Jonathan H. Tice with High Distinction
College of Literature. Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, August 21, 1987
add:   Rodolfo Gutierrez
Renee Lizon
Robert Richard Preston
Emily Lucinda Wagner
Bachelor of Science, Agust 21 1987
add:    Beth Marie Waehe
Bachelor of Arts, May 1, 1987
add:    Mary Lynn Vinette
School of Natural Resources
Master of Science, December 22 1987
add:    Carl Andrew Crampton
Elizabeth Marie Hay-Chmielewski
Randolph Carl Helland
University of Michigan-Dearborn
College of Arts. Science and Letters
Bachelor of Arts, August 31 1987
add:    Kevin Robert Evand
School of Management
Bachelor of Science in Administration, December 23, 1987
correct to show: Nancy Ann Boileau


-211 -



March Meeting, 1988


University of Michigan Hospitals Semi-Annual Accounts Receivable Report
In submitting this report, Vice President Brinkerhoff stated that the Hospitals'
accounts receivable are under good control. He said that he is satisfied with the
Hospitals' performance: they have continued to improve their internal mechanisms
and the doctors have been very responsive to the increasing medical documentation
requirements. In response to a question from Regent Power, he stated that the
Hospitals are working toward goals that were established by the Board in conjunction
with Price Waterhouse. Regent Smith asked what proportion of receivables is in
direct patient pay, and whether it posed a problem. Vice President Brinkerhoff noted
that although that proportion is very small, less than 5%, it requires quite an extensive
amount of staff time.
Vacant Lot, Bronson, Michigan
Regent Baker moved, and Regent Smith seconded, that the University deed a
vacant lot in Bronson, Michigan to the city of Bronson. The lot had been donated to
the University in 1981. When this action had been requested at the February 1988
meeting, the Regents had asked that the donors be contacted regarding the
University's intention to dispose of the property in this manner. This was done, and
the donors have no objections. The motion carried.
Motion to Meet in Executive Session
Regent Roach then made the following motion:
Pursuant to Sections 8(e) and 8(h) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act,
as amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on March 17, 1988, at 5:00 in the President's Conference Room,
Fleming Administration Building, for the purpose of considering material
exempt from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of
Information Act. Such exempt material consists of consultation with the
Board's attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with
specific pending litigation [Section (8e)]; considering a written opinion from
the Board's legal counsel [Section (8h)]; and review of the contents of
applications for employment, where confidentiality has been requested by the
candidates [Section 8(f)].
The meeting recessed at 2:40 PM in order to move to the Anderson Room of
the Michigan Union, where it reconvened at 3:00.
Discrimination and Discriminatory Harassment Among Students in the University
Environment
President Fleming began the discussion by explaining that the reason he is
proposing this policy is that if we say that we are against discrimination, there ought to
be a mechanism with which to deal with problems of discrimination when they occur.
He wrote the original draft as a starting point. After receiving constructive criticism
from many sources, the draft was revised and published in the University Record.
Comments received about that draft were incorporated into the version that is now
under consideration by the Regents.
President Fleming then responded to the criticisms that have been made of the
policy's alleged weaknesses:


-212 -



March Meeting, 1988


a) There has not been enough time to consider it. For those who hold the view
that there can be no disciplinary mechanism on campus other than that provided by
civil and criminal law, as does MSA and the Michigan Daily, then there is no basis for
discussion, President Fleming asserted. Furthermore, responses to the document that
have been received indicate that many groups did find sufficient time to respond. He
knows of no campus that doesn't have a similar type of policy, and the proposal is
based on the proposition that the University does have this right.
b) The policy has serious legal problems. President Fleming stated that there
are indeed serious considerations of due process and civil liberties related to such a
policy. In redrawing the proposal, he said that constitutional limitations with respect
to First Amendment rights had been very seriously considered by eminent legal
scholars and by the General Counsel's office, and he is confident that these rights are
being fully respected. Similar policies have been challenged in the courts and have
been upheld repeatedly.
c) It is too voluminous and complex. To some extent, this is a valid criticism, he
said, but to some extent it is necessary to have a lot of detail. If he had tried to
simplify it further, he said, the policy might then have been criticized for not being
specific enough.
d) There is disagreement about the nature of the penalties. President Fleming
said that penalties of suspension or expulsion have been avoided except in the most
extreme cases. The policy attempts to mediate and modify behavior, rather than
punish.
e) Section 7.02 of the Regents' bylaws has been ignored. President Fleming
reiterated that when this section of the bylaws was put into effect in the early 1970's,
during his tenure as President, the intention was that a tripartite counsel of students,
faculty, and staff would be able to agree on a set of rules regarding nonacademic
behavior. This attempt failed, due to the philosophical position on the part of the
student representatives that there can be no such rules. It turned out to be an
unworkable situation.
In conclusion, President Fleming stated that this was an extremely difficult kind
of proposal to write. The thrust of it is to say that if we're against discrimination, then
we ought to have some kind of machinery to deal with that.
Public Comments
In an expanded public comments session, the Regents then heard comments
from the following individuals on the topics indicated: Harris McClamroch, Chair of
SACUA, on the Policy on Nondiscrimination; Shaw Livermore, Faculty member, on
the University Counsel; MSA members Ken Weine, Michael Philips, Robert Bell, and
Wendy Sharp, on the Policy on Nondiscrimination; Charles Wynder and Kermit
Brooks, of the Black Law Student Alliance, on the Policy on Nondiscrimination;
Stephan Tibbs, of the Black Student Union, Ken Sparks, of the UM American Civil
Liberties Union, and Jonathan Rose, alumnus, on the Policy on Nondiscrimination;
Judy Phalen, student and residence hall director, on a sexual orientation bylaw; Jon
Bhushan and Ashish Prasad, students, on PIRGIM; Timothy Mueller and Marjorie
Winkelman, students, on military research; Robert Morgan and Judy Levy, former
member and current bargaining chair, respectively, of AFSCME Local 1583, on
problems of bargaining unit employees; and Dan Holliman, member of the UCAR
steering committee, on the policy on nondiscrimination.


-213 -



March Meeting, 1988


Friday, March 18, 1988
The Regents met at 9:15 AM in the Regents Room.
Present were Interim President Fleming and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen,
Power, Roach, Smith, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Vice
Presidents Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, and Johnson were also present, as were Chancellors
Jenkins and Jones. Regent Varner and Provost Duderstadt were absent. Associate
Vice President Holbrook attended the meeting for Provost Duderstadt.
Humanities Institute
Associate Vice President Holbrook announced the appointment of James A.
Winn, Professor of English, as Director of the Humanities Institute, for a five-year
term effective July 1, 1988.
AFSCME Local 1583
Vice President Brinkerhoff commented on remarks made at Public Comments
sessions and other publicity regarding personnel matters within the
service-maintenance bargaining unit, AFSCME Local 1583. He stated that four
grievances had been filed and a special conference held in the matter of Mary Clark.
All of the grievances were heard and responded to, and the union did not request
arbitration hearings for any of the grievances. He informed the board that Mary Clark
has been transferred from Building Services to the University Hospital Building
Services Unit, as she had requested. In another matter raised at Public Comments,
the University will be hearing five grievances next week related to the February 17
incidents regarding Mr. McKuen, even though the grievances were filed beyond the
normal filing date. The investigation of those incidents is currently under way. A step
1 grievance regarding Mr. McKuen and Mr. Maria has been heard, and further
grievances relating to that matter will be heard next week. All grievances having
racial overtones, he continued, are reported to the Affirmative Action Office, where a
full-time staff member performs a separate investigation of each incident. An
independent investigation system is in place that allows higher management levels to
become involved in order to assure affirmative action objectives. Parallel procedures
are in place for all members of the work force, whether members of bargaining units
or not.
Annual Report on Investments
In summarizing the University's investment performance for the 1987 calendar
year, investment officer Norman Herbert concluded that our performance had been
disappointing. The University Endowment Fund returned 0.4 percent, mainly due to
the common stock portfolio, which returned -2.5 percent for the year compared to the
S&P 500's 5.2 percent. He noted that on October 19, 1987, the market experienced its
single largest one-day drop in history. Armed with knowledge of the events of the past
year, he asked, would the recommendations have been different? The answer is no.
Mr. Herbert then introduced Mr. Stanford Calderwood, Chair of Trinity Investment
Advisors, to provide some background and perspective on the stock market's
performance in 1987 and how it relates to long-term trends.


-214 -



March Meeting, 1988


Mr. Calderwood remarked that the University's Report on Investment is one of
the most lucid that he has ever seen from any university. He then gave a detailed
presentation that included a historical overview of stock market patterns and trends
since the beginning of the 20th century. Mr. Calderwood said that of the three
categories of investments, treasury bills are the safest but return the least; long-term
corporate bonds have a better return but are not as safe; and stocks have by far the
best return over the long term. His firm advises a mixture of stocks, and bonds to
minimize risk; the University's 70/30 stocks/bonds mix is the best because it cuts the
risk by 27% but only gives up 10% of the expected return. He believes that the data
clearly shows that timig efforts fail; converting to cash means the institution would
not be in place o to be  e to take advantage of the next bull market. Mr. Calderwood
concluded his presentation with the recommendation that the Regents use suitable
(long-term) horizons for making judgments, and to stay with the present 70/30 mix of
stocks to bonds.
Regent Baker observed that the University's current system gives it less
flexibility in adjusting the ratio of stocks to bonds than it had in the past. He noted
that the flexibility that other universities, such as Harvard, had last year allowed them
to sustain less damage from the crash than The University of Michigan. Mr.
Calderwood responded that in the case cited by Regent Baker, they made money in
the bear market but will lose in the bull market. Regent Baker stated that the lack of
flexibility still concerned him, but Mr. Calderwood said that tinkering doesn't pay in
the long run.
Regent Baker noted that equally qualified investment advisors representing
such institutions as the Ford Foundation, Harvard, and others had protected their
clients better than had the investment advisors for The University of Michigan over
the period beginning January 1, 1987 to the present date. He further requested that
the University's investment officers carefully review the University's criteria for its
investment advisors in order to allow the investment advisors more flexibility in
reacting to the "market" in adverse situations such as developed over the
several-month period prior to the stock market crash of October 19, 1987. Regent
Baker stated he was not persuaded that Mr. Calderwood's observations were entirely
correct because the securities markets were still extremely unstable and subject to
further substantial volatility. He said that the University's Investment Officers and its
investment advisors need to improve their performance in the investment of
University funds.
Regent Smith said that she shared Regent Baker's concern and said that if a
bear market appears imminent, we should be able to get out of the market and go to a
cash position or into bonds. Mr. Herbert noted that the University has already
recovered much of what it lost in the crash: At the end of September 1987 the
University's holdings were about $290 million; on October 19, they were about $242
million. By the end of the quarter the holdings were worth $255 million, and because
the University had remained invested, by the end of February the value had risen to
about $280 million. New money in that time period would only have amounted to
about $6 million.
Regent Power summarized his understanding of the major elements of the
University's investment policy: 1) One cannot beat the market on timing. 2) As a
corollary, the University shall establish a relatively fixed asset allocation policy
between equities and other instruments (of, for example, 70/30), which should not be
changed because that would risk problems with timing. 3) The University shall select


-215 -



March Meeting, 1988


investment managers who have differing styles, because on balance the sum of results
will average out better by hedging against risk than if only one manager or one
discipline is selected. 4) Judge the results over the long-term rather than the
short-term.
Mr. Herbert agreed with Regent Power's assessment, and introduced Ned
Joachimi of the Wellesley Group, which acts as the University's investment consultant.
Mr. Joachimi reiterated what the other investment advisors had said: If the University
had converted its stocks, it would have lost, because the market is already up 20%. It
is important to stick with the policy to take advantage of the market. As for the
distribution rate, he said that the long-term total rate of return should equal the
distribution rate plus the inflation rate; to do this, you have to think long-term. To
decrease the volatility risk, the University should make sure to employ equity
managers who have different styles. He continued that the one-to-five year period is
when there is the most volatility, but if you look at 25-year periods, there is no
question that one should have 100% in stocks. The University's current system
provides more flexibility than in the past, and will soon provide even more diversity
and more ability to be able to ride the kind of market that exists today.
Regent Power summarized the basic components of the University's policy. He
raised concerns about how the policy of relying heavily on equities is affected by the
nature of stock market imperfections, for example, insider trading; how the nature of
underlying aggregate demand (as the federal deficit is reduced) will affect the stock
market; and whether the international economic situation will favor U.S. equities and
thereby affect the 70/30 ratio.
Mr. Joachimi responded that although it is true that we are in a global economy,
the relationship between stocks, bonds, and bills does not change much whether it is
domestic or international. What does change is the relationship between domestic
and international markets: They do not correlate well with each other. Therefore,
they are a very good diversification tool and are being considered.
Further discussion followed about other aspects of the University's investment
policy and performance.
Proxy Voting
Mr. Herbert introduced this item, asking that the Regents amend the proxy
voting guidelines that they had adopted in 1979. That policy responded adequately to
the routine and non-routine proxy issues of that time. Over the past few years,
however, the wave of mergers and acquisitions has resulted in a number of corporate
governance issues that didn't even exist when the 1979 resolution was adopted.
Regent Power moved, and Regent Smith seconded the following Proxy Voting
Guidelines:
1.  The University shall vote to maintain the one-share, one-vote standard.
2.  The University shall vote for management proposals except when the
proposals are detrimental to the financial interests of the University as a
shareholder.
3.  The University shall vote for shareholder corporate governance
proposals that are in accord with the financial interests of the University
as a shareholder.


-216 -



March Meeting, 1988


4.  The University shall abstain on all social and political issues except
when the Board of Regents has established a specific voting policy.
Regarding the specific proxy voting directives contained as an appendix to the
Guidelines, Regent Roach asked for an explanation of the directive that the University
vote against eliminating shareholder action by written consent. He believes that
allowing the majority of shareholders to take action by written consent and depriving
the minority of an opportunity to speak at the meeting is anti-democratic, and
disagrees with that directive. Mr. Herbert emphasized that the proxy voting directives
would be included annually for discussion and revision in the University's June
"Report of Investments" to the Regents.
"Floating-Rate" Investments
Regent Baker moved that the investment guidelines be amended to include any
"floating-rate" instruments of domestic issuers that meet the existing credit quality
requirements of the portfolio. Regent Roach seconded the motion, and it was
adopted. Regent Roach complimented the Investment Office on the excellent
performance of the University Investment Pool.
Relocation and Expansion of Radiation Control Service Operations
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents
approved relocation o the Radiation Control Service (RCS) material handling from
the North University Building to the North Campus Incinerator Building. The project
includes construction of a small Plant Service Building, renovation of vacated space
for RCS, and replacing obsolete equipment with new state of the art equipment, for an
estimated total project cost of $1,300,000.
Electrical Distribution on North Campus; UM Hospitals-Uninterruptible Power
Systems; Hatcher Library South-VAV Conversion
The Regents approved projects to improve the electrical distribution system on
North Campus, to supply two uninterruptible power systems at University Hospital
and Taubman Health Care Center, and to convert the variable air volume (VAV)
system at Hatcher Library South.
Proposed Purchase Contract Between The University of Michigan and a Start-up
Small Business Incorporated and Owned by University Employees (QCS)
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchase contract for unique equipment from the sole source,
Quantitative Cardiac Systems (QCS). The arrangement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute, since the owners of QCS (Mark Sanz, Michael
T. LeFree, and Joseph Sitomer) are University employees and are party to the
agreement by virtue of their ownership of QCS. The following information is provided
in compliance with the statutory requirements of the Conflict of Interest Statute:
1.  Parties to the contract will be The University of Michigan and QCS, a
corporation wholly owned by Dr. Mark Sanz, Mr. Michael T. LeFree,
and Mr. Joseph Sitomer.


-217 -



March Meeting, 1988


2.  Terms of the contract include: the University will purchase two (2)
Cine Film Cardiac Image Analysis units and all peripheral equipment
for $149,490. This equipment will be used to run the cardiology
software developed by QCS. QCS will train University staff to use this
software and equipment in the course of normal cardiac test
monitoring.
3.  Dr. Sanz, Mr. LeFree and Mr. Sitomer's pecuniary interests arise from
their ownership of the proposed assignee, QCS. Should QCS
successfully commercialize the University's intellectual property, QCS
will receive revenues from sale or sublicensing of products and the
University will receive royalties from QCS.
University of Michigan Hospitals Child Care Center
The Regents approved the Hospitals' doing the necessary detailed planning for
the development of a child care facility to serve approximately 145 children of
Hospitals employees. Planning will include a thorough analysis of demand,
development of a complete program statement, and identification of potential sites
and construction costs. This information will then be transmitted to the Regents,
along with a cost/benefit analysis, for final approval. Regent Baker said that the
planned comprehensive economic analysis will be very helpful.
The Regents then took a brief recess.
Appointment of Farris W. Womack as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Upon returning from the recess, President Fleming asked the Regents to
formally approve the appointment of Farris W. Womack as Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer and Professor of Education (without tenure). This appointment, the
successor to Vice President Brinkerhoff, had been announced several weeks
previously. Regent Baker noted that Dr. Womack had been chosen following a
thorough search, and that he had been the unanimous choice of the Regents. Regent
Baker stated that Dr. Womack was extremely well-qualified and his appointment
would continue the University's history of choosing strong financial officers for this
important University office. He thanked the search committee for its efforts.
Following a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, the appointment
was approved unanimously.
Sale of Regents of the University of Michigan Telecommunications System and
Refunding Bonds, Series 1988
The Regents received information regarding sale of the Regents of the
University of Michigan Telecommunications System and Refunding Bonds, Series
1988, which had been approved at the February 19 meeting.
MCare (HMO) Bylaw Revisions and Appointments to Board of Directors
The Regents approved revisions to the MCare Bylaws, as detailed in the
Regents' Communication. They also approved the appointment of James F.
Brinkerhoff and Richard L. Kennedy as members of MCare's Board of Directors.


-218 -



March Meeting, 1988


Discrimination and Discriminatory Harassment by Students in the University
Environment
President Fleming introduced the proposed policy on Discrimination and
Discriminatory Harassment by Students in the University Environment for action by
the Regents. If approved by the Regents, he suggested allowing a period of 30 days for
refinements, based on suggestions made at the Public Comments session the previous
day. The revised document would then be brought back to the Regents at the April
meeting.
Regent Smith moved to table consideration of the policy until the April
meeting. The motion was not seconded.
Regent Nielsen stated that although the proposal is not comprehensive and is
limited in scope, it is necessary. He is in favor of it as a first step, but feels that it
should be considered a document that can be amended and modified as necessary. He
is pleased that the thrust of the proposal is nonpunitive, and basically intended to be
educational and encourage behavior modification. He expressed concern, however,
about the lack of codification and specific standards, and feels that it needs to be
properly embellished and codified as time goes on. Regent Nielsen then moved to
adopt the proposed policy on discrimination and discriminatory harassment, to be
effective from May 1, 1988 through December 31, 1989, at which time these particular
rules will lapse and become null and void unless they are re-enacted by the Board of
Regents. The administration will present to the Board a thorough study of the manner
and method under which the policy is adopted and enforced after the first year. Thus,
in the summer of 1989, the administration and the student body, if necessary, will
prepare as comprehensive a report as possible for submission to the Board in the fall
of 1989. Regent Roach supported the motion.
Regent Brown noted that at yesterday's public comments session, the Michigan
Student Assembly objected to the proposal, stating it had not had sufficient time to
review it and develop a counterproposal. The United Coalition Against Racism,
members of the Black community, and the American Civil Liberties Union supported
the concept with suggestions for improvement. He supports the proposal, with the
hope that suggestions be incorporated in the next thirty days.
Regent Baker made the following statement regarding the proposal:
Yes, there have been isolated incidents of unacceptable harassing
conduct over the past few months which give cause for serious concern. Yes,
the University should work on an ongoing basis to educate and persuade its
community members to be tolerant in the attitudes of racial and other
differences, but such efforts do not require the implementing of the proposed
policy on harassment. While I reluctantly support the idea of a code of
student conduct for serious offenses, I am troubled by the several major
deficiencies in this proposal.
First, there is little persuasive evidence that the current times or current
events call for such a restrictive and intrusive proposal. The University has a
responsible and respected record of leadership in matters of race, gender and
related matters reaching back to the days of the Civil War when Michigan's
sons fought with the Union army to banish slavery from this land. Many of
the leaders of this country and other countries are Michigan's alumni,
including leaders representative of different races, beliefs and gender.


-219 -



March Meeting, 1988


Second, the proposal "chills" freedom of speech and the open exchange
of ideas. The members of the University community ought to be free to
debate all issues, including race and all similar issues, in a lively and free
wheeling manner. There must be room in the University to search for truth
with full vigor, to challenge, debate, argue and learn without fear of
intimidation or prosecution for speech or acts, which in the normal course of
University life, represent the ebb and flow of discussion and activity
concerning critical ideas of our time.
The proposal, in a way, makes criminal conduct of free speech. That
freedom to speak, which the University has historically recognized as part of
the dynamic of University life, when subject to internal prosecution may
become too great a risk for some to accept and the search for truth and
solution will become lost in the polarization of opposing views as fear and
silence are substituted for dialogue. It is troubling to think that sometime in
the future, here at the University of Michigan, a young student may stand
falsely accused of harassment and unable to defend herself. What remedy
does the proposal provide? I see none.
Third, the proposal takes only a limited view of the spectrum of
concerns of harassing conduct held by many members of the University
community. For example in the past few years invited guests of the
University including Vice President Bush, former Secretary of State Haig,
President Ford, Attorney General Meese and many others of differing
political and other persuasion have been intimidated, rough up, egged and
verbally abused at this University in attempts to silence their voices. Almost
no official University voice has been raised to protest these uncivil,
unconstitutional and harassing actions. Only a few days ago several law
students were denied their right to be interviewed the Central Intelligence
Agency and not one official objection to those actions was heard. Those
actions also are harassment. Unless the proposal is to be viewed as
hypocritical, it must address all of the issues of harassment on the University
campus.
Fourth, speaking to the specifics of the proposal, I find it failing in the
following areas:
1.  The Michigan Daily is properly exempted from the proposal, but no
provision seems to be made for other public voices such as the Michigan
Review or similar publications which from time to time present opposing
views. All public voices should be heard, free of the constraints of this
proposal.
2.  Of vital importance is that no specific definition is provided as to what
is harassment. The proposal's authors have clearly struggled with this
important matter, but come away frustrated and so leave the University
body subject to the very real threat of penalty for conduct undefined.
The difficulty of defining pornography is well known. The definition of
pornography is probably one of the most litigated and discussed matters
of our time, yet no clear definition has been generally accepted.
Certainly, the University is stepping on the same slippery slope of
inadequate definition when it does not closely define racial and sexual
harassment.


-220 -



March Meeting, 1988


3.  For defining conduct it also relies upon the "Living at Michigan Credo"
formulated for the residence halls. This "Credo" can be interpreted as a
device to "order" a resident's personal views to adhere to the
dormitory's current orthodoxy. The Credo states, "...we are committed
to work with students to help them look at themselves, to examine their
values and conduct, and to keep questioning those values when they
reflect an origin of fear, anger, or ignorance...." Does that mean, if a
student disagrees with the practice of abortion or homosexuality on the
basis of religious or ethical belief and the present orthodoxy has a
different view, that student will be subject to a spectrum of organized
pressures ranging through counselling, peer pressure and forced
education?
The orthodoxy of the University can be harassment too.
4.  The accuser and the accused, in all cases, should have the choice of
being represented by counsel with the full right of sworn testimony,
deposition, evidence, and cross examination of witnesses.
5.  It is of utmost importance that the accused in these matters have a
specific right to remedy in any case of false accusation. To be falsely
accused by someone who seeks to harm an individual, even if the
individual is later found innocent, is an unacceptable circumstance on
the University campus.
These are but some of my concerns about the proposal. What then, is
my recommendation in the alternative?
Very simply, the President should appoint a board of review made up of
students, faculty and administrators to examine only serious cases of
harassment, each on an individual basis as they occur, disposing of them in
an orderly and prudent way. The University of Michigan does not need a
system of accusations, denials, courts, prosecutors, judges, juries, trials and
punishments.
Regent Roach made several specific suggestions for refining the document.
President Fleming responded that he would consider those and Regent Baker's over
the next month. Regent Roach noted that the document will not be cast in stone; it
can serve as a baseline to be modified as appropriate, and that such a document is too
long overdue. The critical issue to him is "harassment", and conduct that is
outrageous. Such conduct should be of a very serious nature in order to be sanctioned.
In response to Regent Baker's comments, he stated that free speech guidelines related
to speakers and protesters are currently under review. It is one thing to argue, he said;
it is another thing to harass someone. The "Michigan Credo" allows freedom of
expression, but not harassment; the intention is that people should not be allowed to
interfere with the educational experience. We have got to start someplace, he
concluded.
Regent Smith asked Affirmative Action Director Virginia Nordby what is meant
by the statement in the preamble of the policy that the policy is meant to deter
"discriminatory conduct which goes beyond the legally defined boundaries of free
speech". Mrs. Nordby responded that stating that these rules would not apply in a
dedicated public forum was meant to acknowledge the fullest extent of free speech


-221 -



March Meeting, 1988


rights. It is only by going well beyond those free speech rights that this document
would enforce any sort of discipline. The General Counsel would assist in identifying
the free speech rights involved in any particular case, since the facts of each case
would determine whether there is a free speech issue or not. The statement quoted by
Regent Smith is meant to assure that free speech rights will be case-by-case evaluated
and protected.
Regent Smith asked whether a person who was offended by having overheard an
ethnic joke would be able to accuse the person who told the joke of violating the
harassment policy. Mrs. Nordby stated that there is a very strict standard that would
be applied to such cases, stated in section B.1. of the policy, and that she finds it
difficult to imagine that one joke overheard by someone else would meet this very
rigid standard. In response to a request by Regent Smith for examples of speech that
would meet those rigid standards, Mrs. Nordby said that, as suggested during Public
Comments, a commentary on the rules needs to be developed that would identify
examples of behaviors that would be prohibited or allowed. She would hesitate to try
to give examples off the top of her head in a public forum. Regent Smith responded
that the students would feel the same way, that "it would be risky for them to say
anything," and she feels that with no examples of prohibited activities, the policy is
very vague.
President Fleming stated that a commentary giving specific examples would be
prepared. Regent Smith said that she would not be able to support a document that is
not in its fina form. "This is a form of censorship," she said. "We are telling the
students that this is how they are going to behave."
Regent Baker supported Regent Smith's observation, stating that the definition
of free speech in a university ought to be very broad. Regent Roach stated that it is
hard to define what is proscribed, but that two examples are the racist jokes that had
been told on the campus radio station and the racist flyers that had been distributed
around campus several times during the past the year. This conduct goes beyond the
bounds of free speech and expression because it causes damage and injury to people.
Regent Power agreed with Regent Roach that harassment is the type of behavior that
is proscribed by the policy. Regent Smith expressed her concern that people will be
afraid to speak their minds for fear of being accused of harassment.
Following further discussion, President Fleming called for the vote. The policy
was adopted, with Regents Brown, Roach, Nielsen, Power, and Waters in favor and
Regents Baker and Smith opposed.
Motion to Hold Closed Meeting
Regent Roach then made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(f) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on March 18, 1988, immediately following adjournment of the
Regents' regular meeting, in the Regents' Room, Fleming Administration
Building, for the purpose of considering material exempt from discussion or
disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act. Such exempt
material consists of the review of the contents of applications for
employment, where confidentiality has been requested by the candidates
[section 8(f)].


-222 -



March Meeting, 1988


The motion carried unanimously.
The meeting was then adjourned to the closed session. It reconvened on the
Dearborn campus following the closed session.
Dearborn Campus Renovation Project
After viewing the proposed site of the Science and Computer Center Building,
the Regents voted to approve the Dearborn Campus Renovation Project, subject to
modification of the placement of the Science and Computer Center Building so that it
is parallel to and set back from the building line of the present classroom building.
The meeting was then adjourned.
All motions were approved unanimously unless stated otherwise.
Transportation, accommodation, and other expenses for the month of February 1988
were $1,562.19. The next meeting will be held on April 14-15, 1988.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary


-223 -



APRIL MEETING, 1988
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, April 14, 1988
The Regents met in special session at 10:50. Present were Regents Baker,
Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, and Varner, and Ms. Doris Estep, Executive
Assistant to the Presidential Selection Committee. Regent Waters was absent.
Immediately after convening, Regent Roach made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(f) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on Thursday, April 14, 1988, at 10:50 AM in the President's
Conference Room, Fleming Administration Building, for the purpose of
considering material exempt from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan
Freedom of Information Act. Such exempt material consists of the review of
the contents of applications for employment, where confidentiality has been
requested by the candidates [section 8(f)].
The motion was seconded by Regent Baker and adopted unanimously.
The Regents reconvened at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith, and Varner. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy and Vice Presidents
Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson were also present, as was Chancellor
Jenkins. Regent Waters and Chancellor Jones were absent; Provost Duderstadt
arrived at 1:45.
Because the presence of chanting demonstrators made it impossible to carry on
with the meeting, Regent Nielsen made the following motion:
In accordance with the decisions of the Michigan Appellate Courts in
Regents v Washtenaw County Coalition Against Apartheid and because the
breach of the peace which has been committed at this meeting has made it
impossible to conduct the business of this meeting in an orderly fashion in
this location,
It is hereby moved that this meeting be recessed temporarily and
removed to the President's Conference Room to be there reconvened at
approximately 1:15 P.M. Although those who have committed a breach of
the peace at this meeting will be excluded from the reconvened meeting, the
press will be admitted and others having business at the reconvened meeting
may be admitted as space permits. University personnel shall be stationed at
the doors to this meeting room to advise the press and the public of this
recess and the location of the reconvened meeting.
Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted unanimously.
The meeting reconvened in the President's Conference Room at 1:20 P.M.
President Fleming called the meeting to order and introduced Affirmative Action
Director Virginia Nordby to present the 1987-88 Affirmative Action Report.


-225 -



April Meeting, 1988


1987-88 Affirmative Action Report
Mrs. Nordby explained that the Affirmative Action report is a compilation of
data from a "snapshot" of faculty and staff demographics as they appeared on October
1, 1987. The current level of 45 Black senior faculty (2.9% of the total senior ranks)
represents the highest number of the past 10 years, she stated, and the number of
women (179, or 11.4% of the total) is at its highest ever. This is in light of a decline in
the total number of senior faculty of 5.6% over the past ten years. Mrs. Nordby stated
that there has been a renewed commitment to minority faculty recruiting on the part
of the Provost's Office and the deans. The University has also recruited several
visiting Martin Luther King/Cesar Chavez/Rosa Parks Visiting Professors for senior
faculty tenure-track positions. The University's record in recruiting Black senior
faculty is better than its peer institutions, who average 2.2% Black faculty.
The University has also made good progress in accomplishing its affirmative
action goals in noninstructional areas. The University Hospitals have had significant
success in minority nurse hiring: goals have been reduced from 53 to 5. The
Affirmative Action office is working with the Hospitals Personnel staff to help achieve
similar success with other hospital job groups.
Mrs. Nordby also reviewed the statistics for faculty, staff, and administrators on
the Dearborn and Flint campuses. On the Dearborn campus, 17.6% of the
administrative staff is Black, which is higher than the percentage in any other campus
area. She also informed the Regents that in 1987 the Purchasing Department had
contracts with 1300 female and minority vendors and subcontractors. This represents
a significant increase over previous years.
Regent Baker asked where Black faculty go who leave the University. Mrs.
Nordby explained that reasons for leaving are based on anecdotal information, but
that it is believed that some go to other institutions and some leave academia.
President Fleming noted that there has been discussion in meetings of the Presidential
Commission on Minority Affairs about the "Catch 22" created by the committee and
counseling assignments given to minority faculty members. Although it is desirable to
have minority role models for students and minority representation on committees,
this takes time away from research and other duties that are essential for promotion.
Provost Duderstadt stated that there are three major reasons for the departure
of minority faculty members: the market, frustration over personal development, and
the lack of a critical mass of minorities in the community. He then announced that the
number of Black faculty hires will probably triple this year, due to the Provost's Office
Target of Opportunity Program. Recruitment under this program has resulted in
twelve firm acceptances, four probable hires, and 5-10 more under negotiation.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Provost Duderstadt said that
under this program, departmental search committees are encouraged to identify
outstanding candidates, whether or not there is a specific opening for such a
candidate's specialty area. When suitable candidates are identified, the Provost's
office agrees to provide full base support and one-time start-up costs so that the
candidate can be offered a position without depleting departmental funds already
budgeted for other purposes. Funding for this program comes "off the top" of the
General fund budget, before funds are allocated to the individual departments. This,
he explained, takes money away from units -that are not aggressive and successful in
minority recruiting and gives it to those who are.


-226 -



April Meeting, 1988


As for the effects of this program, Provost Duderstadt said that not only is it
attracting extraordinarily talented facult to the University, but it also helps identify
other candidates who can be added to the pool of possible future recruits. In addition,
it serves to activate the faculty and get them involved in search procedures. This will
become increasingly important as the proportion of faculty retirements increases in
the coming decade, because the same types of recruiting tools will be necessary to
replace them as are being used now. Vice Provost Moody noted that the program has
also helped to reinforce the feeling on campus that individuals can make a difference,
and has destroyed the myth that no candidates exist. Regent Varner described the
process as a matter of recruiting for an individual, as opposed to recruiting for a
position.
Asked by Regent Nielsen what is being done about minority student
recruitment, Provost Duderstadt stated that many different initiatives are underway,
involving the Admissions Office, the Alumni Association, the establishment of bonds
with historically Black institutions, and a number of programs involving inner-city
junior high and high schools. At the graduate level, the increase in minority faculty
recruiting helps in minority student recruiting. Some programs involve
currently-enrolled minority University students who travel to area schools. Vice
Provost Moody emphasized that there are many different programs to enhance the
pool of eligible minority student applicants to the University, but the impact of many
of these programs will not be felt for a number of years.
Mrs. Nordby summarized the minority student report by stating that over the
last three years there has been an increase of 57% in minority applicants for
admission. The admission rate has also increased, but it has been difficult to convert
this increase into actual enrollments. There are still problems in retention rates, she
continued, but the Summer Bridge Program has been successful in increasing the
graduation rates of minority students.
Regent Roach observed that the Affirmative Action and Minority Student
reports show a record of success and accomplishment. He agreed with an earlier
statement by Regent Power that the University had a "packaging" problem in
publicizing the fact that the University has reversed the national downward trend in
minority faculty and student recruitment, having higher figures both in number and
percent than its peers. Unfortunately, the media has not focused on the University's
success in this area.
Regent Varner complemented Provost Duderstadt on the Target of Opportunity
Program, noting that it is the most successful of any she's seen since she's been
associated with the University. In light of this, she stated that she is particularly
disturbed with the plans announced by the president of Michigan Student Assembly to
place advertisements in high school newspapers advising minority students not to
attend the University. She felt that the Regents and the administration should plan to
respond to this action if it occurs. President Fleming stated that the executive officers
have met with the MSA officers and tried to convince them that such an action would
be totally counterproductive to the University's efforts.
MSA Issues Report: Michigan Collegiate Coalition
Students Paul Thompson, Marjorie Heinle, and Zachary Kittrie made a
presentation to the Regents about the Michigan Collegiate Coalition (MCC), which is
an organization made up of representatives of all Michigan public colleges and


-227 -



April Meeting, 1988


universities, whose purpose is to represent student interests to state legislators. The
MCC will be seeking funding as a student organization from the Michigan Student
Assembly when it makes its next allocations. The MCC acts to create a consensus
among its members as to what will be most beneficial for students; the intention is to
act as a complement to existing education lobbying efforts. The students emphasized
that MCC will have an identity independent of MSA; UM interests will be balanced
against those of other universities, and must represent the interests of all of the
institutions.
In response to a question from Regent Nielsen, Vice President Kennedy stated
that in his work with student interest groups over the years, they have invariably been
responsible and have had very positive working relations. Responding to a question
from Regent Varner, the students stated that the organization needs a base of at least
$50,000 per year in order to be most effective, and that it will be asking for a
contribution toward that goal from University of Michigan students of $.35 per
student per term. If funding is approved here but not enough is received from other
schools, the University could decide to withdraw its funding.
Following further discussion about how the Michigan Collegiate Coalition is
organized and governed, the Regents asked to be sent copies of its constitution,
bylaws, and budget.
Networking
The Regents next turned to a proposal that University of Michigan Hospitals
join with the four metropolitan Detroit hospitals that comprise United Health Systems
(William Beaumont, Providence, Oakwood, and St. John) to form a consortium
corporation to be known as Michigan Health Care Network. The purpose of the
corporation would be to protect and enhance the University's market position within
the Southeastern Michigan healthcare delivery area. The corporation would be
capitalized by a $50,000 investment required from each of the five members. Regent
Nielsen moved to approve the University's participation in this venture; Regent Roach
seconded the motion.
Regent Smith felt that because the University has more net assets than any of
the other participants in the proposed corporation and thereby has more at stake
financially, its position as an equal partner in the proposed corporation puts it at a
disadvantage. The fact that a super majority of the five-member board would be
required to make financial decisions means that any two other board members would
be able to overrule the University's interests by voting against them; conversely, the
other four hospitals on the board could commit the University to any action by virtue
of the super majority provision. University Hospitals Executive Director John Forsyth
pointed out that only the corporation would be responsible for debts, not the
ndividual members of the corporation. He also noted that beyond the initial $50,000
investment from each member, there could be no additional capitalization unless it
was agreed to unanimously by all five members. Regent Smith reiterated her belief
that unless the University had veto power, it would be giving up too much authority to
other institutions.
In response to a question from Regent Nielsen, Mr. Forsyth stated that the
corporation's bylaws contain specific bail-out language to protect the parent
organizations in the event of bankruptcy. Regent Smith stated she was still concerned
about the University's liability for debts incurred by the corporation. Regent Roach


-228 -



April Meeting, 1988


explained that only the corporation would be liable; the University's only liability
would be its initial $50,000 investment. Following further discussion, Mr. Forsyth
clarified the bail-out language in the bylaws as stating that any institution can get out
of the corporation at any time, and the residual assets would be distributed to it.
Regent Smith asked that the Regents be provided with copies of the bylaws of the
Michigan Health Care Network corporation.
The motion was clarified to state that the Regents of The University of
Michigan approve participation in the establishment of Michigan Health Care
Network, pending written assurance that only the corporation, not the individual
members, would be liable for debts, that the only required investment would be
$50,000, and that any institution can get out of the corporation at any time. The
motion carried, with Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, and Varner
voting yes and Regent Smith voting no.
Faculty Research Presentation
Following a brief recess, the Regents heard a presentation by James Boyd
White, Professor of Law, Professor of English, and Adjunct Professor of Classical
Studies, about his work.
Motion to Meet in Executive Session
Regent Roach then made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(f) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Resents meet in closed
session on Thursday, April 14, 1988, at 5:00 PM in the President's
Conference Room, Fleming Administration Building, for the purpose of
considering material exempt from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan
Freedom of Information Act. Such exempt material consists of the review of
the contents of applications for employment, where confidentiality has been
requested by the candidates [section 8(f)].
The motion was seconded by Regent Brown, and carried unanimously.
The meeting was then recessed in order to move to the Anderson Room of the
Michigan Union to hold the Public Comments Session.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics
indicated: Steve Angelotti and Tobin Smith, students, on the Michigan Student
Assembly; Henry Park, student, on the Policy on Discriminatory Harassment; Felicia
French, community resident, on a proposal to hire a professional manager for WCBN;
Don Demetriades, president of Graduate Employee Organization, on taxation of
tuition waivers; Barbara Walker, graduate student, on financial conditions of graduate
students; four student staff members of WCBN, on a proposal to hire a professional
manager for WCBN; Robert Boblett, psychiatric care worker at University Hospital,
on discrimination against gay people; Devon Anderson, student and member of
Campus WAND, on nuclear weapons research; Charles Tackett, community resident,
on a proposed national holiday for Vietnam veterans.


-229 -



April Meeting, 1988


Following Public Comments, the Regents returned to the President's Conference
Room to meet in executive session.
Friday, April 15, 1988
The Regents met at 9:00 in the Regents Room. Present were Interim President
Fleming and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Varner, and Waters. Vice
President and Secretary Kennedy was also present, as were Provost Duderstadt and Vice
Presidents Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson and Chancellors Jenkins and
Jones. Regent Smith was absent.
President Fleming called the meeting to order and asked that visitors refrain from
chanting. Because this request was not complied with, Regent Nielsen made the
following motion, which was adopted unanimously:
In accordance with the decisions of the Michigan Appellate Courts in
Regents v Washtenaw County Coalition Against Apartheid and because the
breach of the peace which has been committed at this meeting has made it
impossible to conduct the business of this meeting in an orderly fashion in this
location,
It is hereby moved that this meeting be recessed temporarily and
removed to the President's Conference Room to be there reconvened at
approximately 9:15 AM. Although those who have committed a breach of the
peace at this meeting will be excluded from the reconvened meeting, the press
will be admitted and others having business at the reconvened meeting may be
admitted as space permits. University personnel shall be stationed at the
doors to this meeting room to advise the press and the public of this recess
and the location of the reconvened meeting.
The meeting reconvened in the President's conference room at 9:15 AM.
1988-89 Operating Budget Status
Provost Duderstadt gave a presentation on the status of the 1988-89 Operating
Budget, including a description of the budget preparation process and timeline. The
University's 1988-89 incremental budget request of $50.2 million represents an
increase of 11% over the FY87-88 General Fund budget of $444 million. It includes
$36 million as the minimum amount necessary to meet commitments and $14.2 million
as a step toward closing the funding gap of $50-60 million. The governor has
recommended a 1.6% increase ($1.8 million); the Senate Higher Education
Appropriations Committee has recommended a 3.0% increase, and the House Higher
Education Appropriations Committee has yet to make its recommendation.
Provost Duderstadt reviewed the four sources of General Fund revenues: state
appropriation, indirect cost recovery, investment income, and tuition and fees. The
projected FY88-89 increase in indirect cost recovery is $5.9 million; the increase in
interest income will be $0.7 million. Because of the likelihood of an extremely modest
state appropriations increase, the University will have no choice but to make up the
shortfall by increasing the tuition and fees. Although internal reallocations,
budget-cutting, and management incentives are already underway to reduce costs, the
-230 -



April Meeting, 1988


University faces several major challenges in meeting its budgetary needs: 1) the lower
priority being placed on higher education in the state in the face of reduced revenues,
2) the fact that the University's Ann Arbor campus has lost ground relative to other
Michigan public universities, 3) congressional deficit reductions which have seriously
reduced federal research support, 4) the removal of the tax exemption on graduate
student assistant tuition waivers, 5) the shift toward a 30%/70% undergraduate
resident/nonresident enrollment mix, which will cause a reduction of about $700,000
in tuition revenues, and 6) a dramatic escalation in selected costs (including a $1.2
million increase this year for library acquisitions).
Provost Duderstadt then illustrated the gradual shift in public policy over the
past 25 years that has created a change in the nature of the financing of public higher
education from general tax revenue to individuals. In 1960, about 80% of the
University's general fund revenue was made up of state appropriation, with tuition and
fees accounting for only about 20%. By 1990, the proportion covered by state
appropriation will have been reduced to about 46%, with an equal amount being
assumed by students and their parents in the form of tuition and fees, and the
remainder coming from other sources.
Discussion followed about how the University interacts with the higher
education appropriations committees to try to influence the appropriations process,
and about why a shift has occurred in the proportion of funding for higher education
that is being assumed by the state. Regent Roach noted that from 1972-1982,
Michigan's support for higher education eroded to a greater degree than it did in other
states, and that The University of Michigan has received the lowest percent increase of
all state universities for the past 15 years.
It was suggested that the University ought to publicize its important service role
within the state, and inform alumni about the effect that the shift in public policy on
education funding is having. Suggestions were also made to compare the situation at
The University of Michigan with that of other Michigan colleges and universities, and
with that of other state-supported systems, such as California and Texas. Regent
Power noted that there is a well-organized state-wide lobbying system in place for
K-12 public education, and that perhaps public higher education institutions ought to
organize in a similar manner. President Fleming stated that these suggestions would
be considered and the Regents would be provided with regular updates on the funding
situation.
Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty (CESF) Report
President Fleming then introduced Professor Jesse Gordon, to present the
annual report of the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty. Referring to
tables in the written report, Professor Gordon made the following assertions: 1)
Basically, faculty salaries at the University compare favorably with those at peer
institutions at the assistant and associate professor ranks; 2) "Average" faculty salaries
do not reflect the salary of the typical University faculty member, because of the
difference between the relatively few salaries at the high end of the scale and those in
the middle; 3) There is an increasing gap between highly paid and low paid faculty
members of the same rank as well as an increasing overlap between salaries of
associate professors in well-paid units and full professors in low-paid units and a
corresponding overlap between assistant and associate professors; 4) Salary increases
for administrators are higher than those for faculty members.
In response to a question from Regent Baker as to whether the salary


-231 -



April Meeting, 1988


differentials described by Professor Gordon are market-driven, Provost Duderstadt
stated that the same situation exists in all universities. Regent Roach agreed, noting
that universities are also in competition with industry for certain disciplines. Professor
Gordon stated that faculty salaries should reflect merit, and that departments should
be insulated from the vagaries of the market.
Regarding Professor Gordon's comments that the University's benefits package
is about average compared with Bureau of Labor Statistics data, Vice President
Brinkerhoff noted that CESF's comparisons did not consider paid vacations, holidays,
sick leave, disability leave, and sabbaticals. Regent Roach agreed, stating that CESF
would need to make a much stronger case to demonstrate that higher education
doesn't have one of the better fringe benefit packages offered anywhere in the United
States.
Following further discussion, the meeting recessed for a five-minute break,
following which Provost Duderstadt had to leave for another commitment. Upon
reconvening, he was replaced by Associate Vice President Holbrook.
1988-89 University Health Service Fee
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents
approved an increase in the University Health Service Fee of $3.25 (4.85%) per
student per term. This will raise the total fee per student per term to $70.25.
Minutes
Regent Nielsen moved, and Regent Roach seconded, approval of the minutes of
the meeting of March 17 and 18, 1988.
Reports
Vice President Brinkerhoff submitted his monthly reports on Investment
Transactions, Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations, as well as
the quarterly Report on Non-competitive Purchases over $2,000 from Single Sources
from January 1-March 31, 1988. On page 2 of the Investment report, under the
heading "Comparison with Treasury Bills", he said that the figure for UM Temporary
Investments for March 1988 should be 7.723. On page 5, it was noted that the initial
investment of $55,000 in the Michigan Individual Entrepreneur Project has grown to
$93,894.50.
Old Main Hospital Administrative Wing. Regarding the Plant Extension
Report, Vice President Brinkerhoff reported that because its historic importance to
The University of Michigan campus, his staff had conducted an analysis to determine
the cost of retaining this building. Although there was a possibility that the $3.3
million required to renovate it could have been raised privately, the up-front cost of
about $350,000 that would have been required to maintain it, protect it from
demolition, and provide utility service proved to be prohibitive.
Discussion followed about how matters pertaining to the University's history are
dealt with. Regent Baker noted that the Regents have always carefully considered
historical aspects when questions arise with respect to renovation versus demolition to
build new buildings. Regent Power observed, however, that history and a sense of
emotional association with the University are neither defined nor insured by facilities


-232 -



April Meeting, 1988


planning. President Fleming observed that the Steneck Report had addressed the
specific issue of whether Old Main Hospital should be preserved; there had been a
real incentive to keep it, and the notion had been given very careful consideration, but
the cost was just too high. Further discussion followed about the history of the
University and how it is being preserved.
Vice President Brinkerhoff pointed out that page 11 of the Plant Extension
report contained financing costs for the ICLE Building that had not been previously
approved. On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
approved the Plant Extension report.
Litigation Report. Regent Nielsen asked that the Regents be given an
accounting of the amount of University funds that have been expended in litigation
regarding Visiting Professor Rosenboom. Regent Nielsen contends that it is
inappropriate for the University to continue to spend tax dollars defending the student
in this litigation. Not only is the defendant no longer a student at the University, he
said, but it appears that the case may involve misidentification. He moved to
discontinue payment of legal expenses to defend the student in the civil litigation
surrounding this case. Regent Brown seconded the motion.
Regent Nielsen said that he would be willing to delay his motion for another
month, but that he would like a report on the case so far. Regents Baker and Power
stated that a policy needs to be developed on how to handle such cases in the future.
Regent Roach moved to table Regent Nielsen's motion until the May meeting,
pending receipt of a report on the case. Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it
was adopted.
Research Reports. Vice President Wilson submitted the "Summaries of a
Selection of Current Research and Sponsored Projects" and "Awards Received,
Research and Other Academic Activities, January 16-February 26, 1988".
Gifts and Grants
The Regents received the following gifts, which were accepted with thanks and
in accord with their terms and conditions:


-233 -



April Meeting, 1988


Air Products & Chemicals, Inc., Allentown, Pennsylvania
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                         6,050
Marian A. Aldrich Estate
for support of the School of Education                                   5,000
Allen-Bradley Industrial Control Division, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the manufacturing forum in the School of Business Administration     5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc.. New York, New York
for research in the Medical School, and the College of Pharmacy         80,558
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.
for chemical research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  59,333
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                       8,500
AMP, Inc., Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
for ergonomics support in the College of Engineering                    20,000
ANR Foundation, Inc., Detroit
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration  5,000
ASC, Inc., Southgate
pledge payment for The University of Michigan-Dearborn, CAD/CAM Laboratory  20,000
Abby K. Babcock Trust
for the Babcock Funds in the Medical School                              5,996
BNR, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Center for Fitness and Sports Research
in the Division of Physical Education                                    5,000
Camp International, Inc., Jackson
for orthopaedic research in the Medical School                          11,150
Carnegie Corporation of New York, New York
for adolescent networks research in the Institute for Social Research    24,000
Chie Yuan Chen Far Hills, New Jersey
for transplant fellowships in the Medical School                         18,000
Chevron U.SA., Inc., San Francisco, California
for naval architecture scholarships in the College of Engineering        13,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                      12,299
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                      37,378
Ruth C. Dau Estate
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan Hospitals         5,741
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration  10,000
Domino's Pa, lnc., Ann Arbor
proceeds from the Festival of Trees, for support of The University of Michigan  23,000
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for Employee Matching Gifts                                             13,745
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for the du Pont Funds and other support in the School of Business
Administration, the College of Engineering, the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, the College of Pharmacy,
and the Institute of Science and-Technology                             73,000
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the William A. Paton Accounting Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration                                                  16,312
Egyptian Cultural and Educational Bureau, Washington, D.C.
for lipid research in the Medical School                                14,850
Emerson Charitable Trust, Saint Louis, Missouri
for support of the Schools of Business Administration and Law           21,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                         14,115
General Mills, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration      7,000
Genevieve Gilmore Trust
pledge payment for the School of Music Addition                         20,000
Sheldon C. Glass Memorial Foundation, Southfield
for the Sheldon C. Glass Memorial for Leukemia Research in the Medical School  5,000
Health Education Foundation, East Lansing
for the James D. Bruce Fellowship in the Medical School                  15,256
Francis E. Heydt, Miami, Oklahoma
pledge payment for the swimming and diving facility in the Department
of Athletics                                                             5,000
Celeste C. Hourani Estate
for the George F. and Celeste Hourani Memorial Funds in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                       226,612
-234 -



April Meeting, 1988


ITT Corporation, New York, New York
pedge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration  10,000
Robert Wood Jonson Foundation, Yrinceton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund  45,943
Kalamazoo Foundation Kalamazoo
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Kiwams of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh
for the Forney W. Clement Memorial for patient care activities,
The University of Michigan Hospitals                                     9,393
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agens C. McKay Medical Research funds              12,917
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York New York
for Russian and East European Studies support in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts                            150,000
Mette Foundation, Detroit
for the Norman Mette Scholarship in the Medical School                  11,630
Michigan Eye-Bank and Transplantation Center, Ann Arbor
for the Michigan Eye-Bank Fund, The University of Michigan Hospitals   12,000
Michigan State Bar Foundation, Lansing
pledge payment for the Institute of Continuing Legal
Education in the Law School                                              8,000
Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone, Detroit
pledge payment for the Institute of Continuing Legal
Education in the Law School                                             5,000
Earl Vincent Moore Estate and Blanche A. Moore Estate
for the Blanche Anderson Moore Scholarship and the Earl V.
Moore Scholarship Funds in the School of Music fund                      8,500
David Moscow-Linda Moscow Foundationd Chicago, Illinois
pledge payment for unrestricted endowment support of The University
of Michigan                                                             5,000
Thelma Fox Murray Trust
for the William F. Murray and Thelma Fox Murray Scholarship            25,000
National Bank of Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                        6,910
Nelson Research & Development, Irvine California
for pharmacology research in the Medical School                         10,000
Donald E.Nordlund, Barrington, Illinois
Dow Chemical Company common stock, for unrestricted support of the
Schools of Business Administration and Law                              5,445
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration  10,000
Fred Palma Estate
for the Fred and Sally Palma Memorial Fund in the Medical School       141,120
Donald R. She pherd, Pasadena, California
for band equipment in the School of Music                               50,000
Irvin Stern Foundation, New York, New York
pledge payment for Judiac Studies Development in the College of
Literature Science and the Arts                                         20,000
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, AA.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern
Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts;
for the Scottish Rites Research Funds in the Medical School             6,181
Dr. and Mrs. James H. Tanaka, Stockton, California
for unrestricted support of the School of Dentistry                    12,049
Texas Instruments Inc., Dallas Texas
for the Paul W. McCracken Collegiate Professorship in the School of
Business Administration                                                100,000
Touche Ross & Company, Detroit
for accounting faculty support in the School of Business Administration  8,000
Freda G. Wall Trust
for publications in the Clements Library                               160,430
John E. Wariner Trust
for the John E. Warriner Scholarship in the College of Literature
Science and the Arts                                                    34,685
Whitaker Foundation, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                 40,084
William International, Walled Lake
for communications disorders support in the Medical School              10,000
Marian E. Wright, Flint
for the Summer Writing Project, The University of Michigan-Flint         8,000


-235 -



April Meeting, 1988


The following non-monetary, gifts in kind were approved:
Mentor Graphics Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
a twenty megabyte computer engine, an interface kit, and two memory boards; for the Department of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Mrs. Lowell W. Royston, Ann Arbor
four egyptian papri scrolls, 9th-5th centuries BC; for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology
Personnel Actions
The Regents unanimously approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANK, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1988
Carol Ann Carter M.FA., Associate Professor of Art
Clarence Earl Coleman, Jr. M.Mus., Associate Professor of Music and Assistant Dean
for Minority Affairs for a five-year term
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED
ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on May 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Armin E. Good, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to teach in the Medical School,
February 29, 1988 for a one-year period
Robert C. Hendrix Professor Emeritus of Pathology, reappointed to teach in the Medical School,
April 1, 1988 for a one-ear period
Maurice J. Sinnott, Professor Emeritus of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering, reappointed to
continue to serve as principal investigator for the continuing DARPA-DD project for a
eigt-month period
Robert Taylor, Professor Emeritus of Chemistry, reappointed to continue to counsel students in the
Chemistry Department for a one-year period
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR
FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Joseph C. Glorioso, III, Professor of Microbiology and Immunology in the Unit for Laboratory Animal
Medicine with tenure, and Professor of Microbiology and Immunology in the Department of
Microbiology and Immunology, without tenure, and Assistant Dean forResearch and Graduate
Studies April 1, 1988
George E. Pickett, Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration, with tenure also appointed
Chair of the Department of Public Health Policy and Administration, July 1, 1988, for a
three-year term
John A. Williams, Professor of Physiology, with tenure, Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure,
and Chair of the Department of Physiology, May 1, 1988
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on June 1, 1988
Ricardo V. Lloyd, appointed the Aldred Scott Warthin-Carl Vernon Weller Professor, for a five-year
term
The following committee appointments were approved:
College of Phannacy Executive Committee
Leslie A. Shimp, for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice Rosemary R. Berardi,
term expired
College of Literature. Science and the Arts Executive Committee
Daniel M. Burns, Jr., for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice David D. Bien, term
expired


-236 -



April Meeting, 1988


Donald R. Deskins, Jr., for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice T. Michael
Sanders, term expired
Martha CookBuilding Board of Governors
Joyce C. Tucker, to succeed herself, for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991.
Division of Physical Education Executive Committee
Katarina T. Borer, for a one-year term effective immediately, through June 30, 1989, vice Victor L.
Katch, resigned
Collee of Enineenrin Executive Committee
Robert I. Carr, for a our-year term, through June 30, 1992, vice William P. Graebel, term expired
Maurice H. Seevers Collegiate Professorship. The Regents approved the
creation of the Maurice H. Seevers Collegiate Professorship in the Pharmacology
Department of the Medical School.
Aldred Scott Warthin-Carl Vernon Weller Professor. The Regents approved
the appointment of Ricardo V. Lloyd as the Aldred Scott Warthin-Carl Vernon
Wellor Professor in the Department of Pathology, for a five year term, effective June
1, 1988.
Personnel Reports
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective March 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Khashayar Khorasani, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Gerald L. Messerschmidt, M.D., Internal Medicine
Lecturer
Kevin B. Kerber, M.D., Psychiatry, March 14, 1988
Visiting Professor
Stephen R. Kern, Ph.D., History, March 14, 1988
Edward W. Kolb, Ph.D  Physics
Visiting Associate Professor
Richard Wells, Ph.D., Industrial and Operations Engineering, January 1, 1988
Adiunct Lecturer
Carol G. Barbur, Ph.D  Psychiatry
Barrie M. Biven, Ph.D. Psychiatry December 1, 1987
Richard J. Coffey, Ph.I. Industrina and Operations Engineering, January 1, 1988
Ingrid A. Deininger, M.i. Nursing, September 1, 1987
Bronwen Gates, Ph.D., Biology, January 1 1988
Brooke E. Lamson, B.A., Enish, UM-Flint January 1, 1988
Clifford J. Wilkins, BA., Music, UM-Flint, January 1, 1988
Leslie A. Wizauer, BA.S., Anesthesia, UM-Flint, September 1, 1987
Clinical Instructor I
Jane M. Carnahan, M.D. Psychiatry, February 1, 1988
Katharine R. Leavitt, M.D., Psychiatry, February 1, 1988
James L. Lockwood, D.D.S., Dentistry, January 7, 1988
Victor J. Sorenson, M.D. Surgery, January 1, 1988
Karen B. Traber, M.D., Anesthesiology
Patricia S. Woster, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
Clinical Instructor I
Jerome E. Feldstein, M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology


-237 -



April Meeting, 1988


PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF
INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
William M. Keyserling, Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, also
Assistant Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, January 1 1988
Patricia L. Robertson Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, also
Assistant Professor of Neurology, March 1, 1988
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Sabbatical
George C. Curtis, Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, March 1, 1988, for a six-month period
Jeremiah G. Turcotte, Frederick A. Coller Professor of Surgery, with tenure, February 13, 1988, for a
six-month period
DuQv off Cam.us
David C. Dawson, Professor of Physiology, with tenure, April 1, 1988, for a three-month period
Extended Sick
Gregory Yeh, Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, January 25, 1988, for a four-month
period
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED
ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Brian K. Dallaire, Clinical Instructor Pharmacy, January 31, 1988
Richard M. Ketai Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, February 29, 1988
Robert M. Prust, Lecturer, Radiation Oncology, December 31 1987
Kathryn A. Stolp-Smith, Instructor, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, April 1, 1988
Retirement Memoirs
The Regents unanimously adopted the following Retirement Memoir:
Luiz V. Boffi, Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at The
University of Michigan-Dearborn, will retire from active faculty status as of April 30,
1988, after twenty-three years as a productive teacher and researcher.
Professor Boffi received his B.S. degree from the Polytechnic School of Sao
Paulo, Brazil in 1940, and his Ph.D. degree from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology in 1957. He joined The University of Michigan-Dearborn faculty in 1965
and has been an active faculty member, serving as a member of the executive
committee, the ECE curriculum committee, and the dean selection committee.
Professor Boffi is also a member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineering Education Group (IEEE) and the Society of the Sigma Xi.
A primary force in the development and implementation of the M.S.E.E. degree
program at The University of Michigan-Dearborn, Professor Boffi has been devoted to
the development of several new courses, the development of moder laboratories, and
maintaining a high degree of technical excellence in his department. Professor Boffi is
held in the highest esteem by his colleagues in the School of Engineering and across
the campus. That his students hold him in equally high regard is testified to by the
number who return to the campus after graduation to visit him.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his many
contributions by naming Luiz V. Boffi Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer
Engineering.


-238 -



April Meeting, 1988


Memorials
Secretary Kennedy reported the deaths of two faculty members. The Regents
adopted the following Memorial Statements:
With profound sorrow we announce that Professor Arthur P. Mendel died on
February 28, 1988, at La Jolla, California. Professor Mendel taught at The University
of Michigan for twenty-five years, until his resignation because of illness in 1987.
Professor Mendel's first book, Dilemmas of Progress in Tsarist Russia: Legal
Marxism and Legal Populism (1961), established him as one of the outstanding
historians of his generation. It has become the standard work on the subject and
continues to be read to this day. It was followed by Essential Works of Marxism,
published in several editions, other books and articles, including his editions of Paul
Miliukov's and P.V. Annendov's memoirs, and a collection of Tolstoy's short stories
edited and co-translated by him. His last major work, the product of many years,
Michael Bakunin: Roots of Apocalypse, appeared in 1981.
Professor Mendel's special field research and teaching was Russian intellectual
history. "Who is to blame?", "What is justice?", and "What is to be done?", were
questions that the Russian intellectuals of his first book asked and sought to answer in
practical action. Those classical questions of the Russian intelligentsia were also
Professor Mendel's questions.
Some of the thinkers about whom he wrote and taught held that the task of
human beings was to discover the iron laws of history and to act in conformity with
historical inevitability. Art Mendel was firmly on the side of their opponents who
believed that the essence of man is freedom and that all action should be guided by
moral principles; for them -- and for him -- every period, every generation, faced an
open future. Professor Mendel was especially fascinated by Russian culture and
society on the eve of the First World War, in which period, he believed, alternative
programs or visions of the future were on the agenda; what subsequently happened,
did not have to happen. Needless to say, being an intellectual historian, among those
factors or forces influencing historical events, he attached great importance to ideas.
Belief in man's freedom and the conviction that ideas do matter led Professor
Mendel in his later years to a major research undertaking: an attempt to rethink and
reevaluate what he called the Millenarian and Utopian thought -- from ancient times
to our day. Only one of the three volumes that he planned to write on this subject had
been completed at the time of his death.
Professor Mendel never separated his research from his teaching. He taught a
variety of courses in the field of Russian history, especially intellectual history, and in
his last years he lectured also on the history of Millenarian and Utopian thought.
Generations of students have known him as a dynamic and inspiring teacher. He
loved teaching and he loved his students, many of whom turned to him not only for
intellectual direction, but also for moral guidance. In the classroom, he shared his
work in progress with his students without hiding his doubts and difficulties. There
was nothing "professorial" in his appearance or behavior. It was normal for his
students to argue with him in and out of class. He insisted that a good teacher is
someone who always remains a student, and Art Mendel was a student to the end.
Professor Mendel's life was one of accomplishment and fulfillment. Although it
was cut short, he was still full of plans for the future and in command of his creative
intellectual powers and moral energies.
As we mourn the loss of a great teacher, an outstanding scholar, an inspiring
colleague and friend, and most of all a good and just man, we convey our condolences
to his wife Sara and their children: Ruth, Aaron, Matthew, Joanna, and Aliza. We feel
fortunate to have known Art as a colleague and a friend. He will be sadly missed by


-239 -



April Meeting, 1988


all of us.
The Regents of The University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death of Robert H. Brower, Professor of Japanese Language and Literature, on
February 29, 1988.
Professor Brower was one of a handful of scholars who virtually created the field
of Japanese literature as an academic discipline in this country. His book, Japanese
Court Poetry, written in collaboration with Earl Miner, was the seminal work in his
specialty, classical poetry and poetics. With his discerning critical sensibility and his
graceful translations, Professor Brower established a standard for the study of
Japanese poetry that few later scholars will be able to match. His work on Fujiwara
Teika, the great poet and critic of the late twelfth and early thirteenth century,
resonates with a depth of understanding achieved only through a lifetime of study.
Indeed, Professor Brower's interest in Teika seems fitting, for the latter embodied the
lifelong devotion that a true understanding of the Japanese poetic tradition demands.
At the time of his death, Professor Brower was at work on a series of translations of
poetic treatises which promised to reveal how Japanese poets regarded their own art.
Born in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Professor Brower received his bachelor's
degree from Harvard University in 1944. He learned Japanese while serving with the
armed forces in World War II, and received his master's and doctoral degrees from
The University of Michigan in 1947 and 1952, respectively. He returned to Michigan
in 1966 after teaching at the University of Minnesota and Stanford University. As the
chairman of the Department of Far Eastern Languages and Literatures from 1971 to
1981, he was instrumental in expanding Michigan's reputation as a major center for
Japanese studies. A distinguished teacher, Professor Brower trained three generations
of young scholars to emulate his rigor and his dedication.
Professor Brower will be missed as a colleague, teacher, mentor, and friend. His
absence calls to mind a poem from the eighth century anthology of poetry, the
Manyoshu, which Professor Brower translated with his characteristic eloquence:
I shall miss you most
When twilight brings the rising mists
To hang upon the reeds
And as the evening darkens cold
With mallards' cries across the marsh.
Degrees
On the recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Regents
approved the Final Degree List for the December 1987 Law School Commencement
and the Tentative Doctoral Degree List for the April 1988 Rackham School of
Graduate Studies Commencement. They also approved the following amendments to
degree lists:


-240 -



April Meeting, 1988


Architecture and Urban Planning
Bachelor of Science, December 22, 1987
add:   Janet W. Iverson
Master of Architecture, December 22, 1987
add:   Patricia Kathryn VanderBeke, B.S.
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Master of Arts, Russian and East European Studies, May 1987
add:   Leslie Helene Weinfield, A.B., University of California, Berkeley
Master of Arts Economics, May, 1977
add:   Marc Edward Manly, A.B., Amherst College; J.D.
The University of Michifan - Flint
Master of Public Administration, Public Administration, December, 1987
delete: Jane Zehnder-Merrell, A.B.
Master of Public Administration, Bilingual Administration, December, 1987
add:   Jane Zehnder-Merrell, A.B.
Master of Public Administration, Bilingual Administration, December, 1987
delete: Nancy Lynn Dextrom, B.S.N., University of Wisconsin, Madison
Master of Public Admiistration, Public Administration, December 1987
add:   Nancy Lynn Dextrom, B.S.N., University of Wisconsin, Madison
Colleee of Literature. Science and the Arts
Master of Arts, Histo  December 1987
add:   Kathleen Anne Frantilla, A.B University of Washington; A.M.L.S.
Master of Arts, Russian and East European Studies, May 1987
add:   Leslie Helne Weinfield, A.B., University of California, Berkley
Master of Arts, English Language and Literature August, 1975
add:   Christine Doele Musser, A.B.Ed.
Master of Arts, Near Eastern Studies, December 1987
add:           Charles Augustus Forrest, A.B., Yale University
School of Natural Resources
Master f Landscape Arcitecture
add:   Kathleen L. Wolf, A.B., Whitman College
Master of Science, Natural Resources, December, 1987
add:   Carl Andrew Crampton, B.S., U.S. Coast Guard Academy
Randolph Carl Helland, A.B., University of Maryland at College Park
Master of Science, Natural Resources December 1987
add:   Robert Lawrence Fischman, A.B. Princeton University
add:   Elizabeth Marie Hav-Chimielewsd, B.S., University of Guelph, Canada
add:   Richard Lawrence Nagle, B.S., The Pennsylvania State University
Rackham
Master of Public Policy, August, 1976
add:   Kenneth Thomas Latta, B.S Illinois Institute of Technology
Certificate of Graduate Studies, Gaming/Simulation Studies, December, 1987
add:           Israel M. Porat, A.B. The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel
Master of Science, Bioengineeing, December 1987
add:           Thomas Michael Shimei, B.S., Michigan State University
Medicinal Chemistry, December 1987
add:   Deborah Leigh Heyl, A.B., Lafayette College
Collee of Enineenne
Master of Science in Engineering, Mechanical Engineering August, 1987
add:   Ceacleh Yang, B.E., Tamkang University, Taiwan, China
Master of Science in Engineering, Computer Science and Engineering, December, 1987
delete: JesseM. Gordon, A.B. University of Pennsylvania
Master of Science, Computer Science and Engineering, December, 1987
add:   Jesse M. Gordon, A.B., Umversity of Pennsylvania
Master of Science in Engineering, Aerospace Engineering, December 1987
add:   Hassan Kahroai, B.SE.(M.E., M.S.E.
Applied Mechanics. December 1987
add:   Surya Prasad Gunnadha Dinavahi, B. Tech., Indian Institute of Technology,
Kharagpur
Construction Engineering and Management, December 1987
add:   Sonthya Vanichvatana, B. Arch., Silpakorn University, Thailand
Mechanical Engineering, December 1987
add:   Chong-Ik Lee, B.S.E.(M.E.)


-241 -



April Meeting, 1988


The Universit of Michigan - Dearborn
Master of Science in Engineering, Industrial and Systems Engineering, August, 1987
add:   Donna Ann Miller B.S.E., University of Pittsburgh
Master of Science in Engineering, Inustrial and Systems Engineering, December 1987
add:   Harold Michael Lapprich, B.S., Michigan State University
Classical Studies
Master of Arts, December 1987
correct to show. Roger Thomas Macfarlane
Civil Engineering
Master of Science December 1987
correct to show: Hassan Mahmound Marashali
School of Education
Master of Arts, Education, December 1987
add:           Amy Wylie Gardner, A.B., Kenyon College
Master of Science, Education December 1987
add:   Richard Walter Weaver, B.S Eastern Michigan University
Physical Education: Kinesiology, December 1987
add:   Carol Ann McIntyre, B.S., Hillsdale College
School of Nursing
Master of Science, Medical-Surgical Nursing, December 1987
add:   Elizabeth Ann Roe, B.S.N., Northern Michigan University
Parent-Child Nursing
add:   Lera-Jo Ann Cavanaugh, B.S. Nurs., Northern Michgian University


-242 -



April Meeting, 1988


160 Acres, Readmond Township, Emmet County, Michigan
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
approved sale of 160 acres of land in Readmond Township, Emmet County, Michigan,
subject to a 10% realtor's commission and retention of the mineral rights by the
University.
400 North Ingalls Building Asbestos Removal; Central Power Plant Asbestos
Removal; Hatcher Graduate Library Collection Sprinkler System; West
Quad Serving Area and Dining Room Renovation; UM Hospitals Bone Marrow
Transplantation Unit
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
approved projects to remove asbestos from 400 North Ingalls Building and from the
Central Power Plant. They also approved installation of a sprinkler system in the
Hatcher Graduate Library Collection, renovation of the serving area and dining room
in West Quad, and proceeding with construction and renovation plans for a bone
marrow transplantation unit at University Hospitals upon receipt of final approval
from the Michigan Department of Public Health.
Proposed Purchase Contract between The University of Michigan and a Small
Business Partially Owned and Operated by a University Employee (Ann Arbor
Actuaries, Inc.)
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously authorized the University to enter into a contract with Ann Arbor
Actuaries, Inc., a company partially owned and operated by Mr. Donald A. Jones.
This arrangement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute, since
Mr. Jones is a University employee and is a party to the contract by virtue of his being
one-third owner of the corporate entity of Ann Arbor Actuaries. The motion was
unanimously approved pending disclosure of all information necessary to comply with
the statute. The following information is provided in compliance with the statutory
requirements of the Conflict of Interest Statute:
1.   Parties to the contract will be The University of Michigan and Ann
Arbor Actuaries, Inc., a corporation partly owned by Mr. Donald A.
Jones.
2.   Terms of the contract are as follows: The contract is for actuarial
services in reviewing UM Blue Cross/Blue Shield reports. In the
opinion of the Staff Benefits Office, Ann Arbor Actuaries, Inc. has
acquired a unique, close working position with the Michigan State
Insurance Bureau relative to Blue Cross/Blue Shield matters. The
duration of the contract is from April 15 through December 31, 1988.
3.   The sole pecuniary interest is the $1,500.00 to be paid to Ann Arbor
Actuaries, Inc. if the service is requested.
Michigan Student Assembly
Regent Roach stated that he was concerned about the recent conduct of the
Michigan Student Assembly, which has been maligning the Board and working to
oppose its efforts to retain minority students. He warned members of MSA that they
-243 -



April Meeting, 1988


should be prepared to answer some very tough questions when presenting the Regents
with their funding requests. Regent Brown added that MSA s announced plans to
place advertisements in high school newspapers advising students not to attend the
University would be injurious. "It is illegitimate," he said, "for MSA to criticize our
efforts and then not to let us do the things they criticize us for [not doing]". The
attacks on President Fleming and on Regent Baker and charges made against them in
an MSA resolution are totally unfounded, false, and counterproductive.
Regents Power, Nielsen, and Varner expressed their agreement with Regents
Roach and Brown. Regent Nielsen suggested that since it appears that MSA does not
represent a majority of the students, it is inappropriate to charge students a fee for an
organization that doesn't represent them. Regent Varner stated that she shares the
views of her colleagues regarding the reported intentions of MSA and its maligning of
Regent Baker and President Fleming. She would not support allocations of University
funds that would be used in ways that would be counterproductive to the affirmative
action efforts we've made. She concluded that the reported intentions of MSA are
totally irresponsible, and that it is inconceivable that a Black student could engage in
such actions.
Discrimination and Discriminatory Harassment by Students in the University
Environment
President Fleming pointed out that the version of the policy now before the
Regents included revisions based on specific suggestions made by individual Regents
and other members of the University community at last month's meeting.
Regent Nielsen moved to exclude the word "maliciously" in the sentence on
page 3, section D, "False Accusations". Regent Roach seconded the motion, and it
passed unanimously. This sentence will now read as follows: "A student who
knowingly and intentionally files a false complaint under this policy is subject to
discipline."
Turning to page 7, Section D, "Sanctions", Regent Nielsen addressed the
sentence "Educational sanctions should not be employed, however, in an attempt to
change deeply held religious or moral convictions". Anybody could engage in the kind
of offensive conduct that is being addressed in this document, he pointed out, and
defend it on the basis that such conduct was based on a religious or moral conviction.
The ultimate sanction of termination from the University ought not to be precluded
just because the conduct in question was conducted on the basis of a strong moral or
religious conviction.
Mrs. Nordby explained that the words "educational sanctions" were meant to
refer to the class attendance sanctions described in subparagraph 3 of Section D. The
intent was that there would not be an attempt to change religious or moral beliefs
behind the offensive behavior by requiring the offender to attend a class. The sanction
of suspension or expulsion from the University was not meant to be precluded by this
statement. Following further discussion, Regent Nielsen moved to clarify this issue by
changing the third sentence in the first paragraph in section D ["Educational sanctions
should not be employed, however, in an attempt to change deeply held religious or
moral convictions."] to read "Class attendance sanctions as described in paragraph 3
below should not be employed in an attempt to change deeply held religious or moral
convictions." Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was adopted.


-244 -



April Meeting, 1988


Regent Varner moved adoption of the revised policy on Discrimination and
Discriminatory Harassment by Students in the University Environment, as amended
above. In response to a question from Regent Roach, Mrs. Nordby said that the
revised document incorporates suggestions that had been made by students at the
March public comments session, but that no additional comments had been received
from students since that time. Regent Varner asked whether a policy was being
prepared that would apply to faculty, staff, and administrators. President Fleming
stated that work on such a document was already underway. Vice President
Brinkerhoff noted that a grievance process is already in place to deal with such issues
as they pertain to faculty and staff. Mrs. Nordby stated that the University's position is
that this type of behavior is already in opposition to University rules, and that her
office is working to clarify those rules.
Regent Baker observed that there is still no policy that deals with harassment of
speakers who are invited to campus, nor with students' rights to be interviewed for
jobs with controversial organizations, such as the CIA. President Fleming responded
that these issues are being addressed.
There being no further discussion, President Fleming called for the vote. The
amended policy was adopted unanimously, to be in effect through December 31, 1989
unless re-enacted by the Regents.
Establishment of Thurnau Professorships
Associate Vice President Holbrook explained that the purpose of the Thurnau
Professorships will be to recognize professors who have made outstanding
contributions to undergraduate education at The University of Michigan. The five or
six Thurnau Professors who will be appointed annually represent an "important
component of our effort to improve undergraduate education at the University",
according to Associate Vice President Holbrook. On a motion by Regent Power,
seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents approved establishment of the Thurnau
Professorships.
Change in Organization of Student Services Unit at UM-Flint
The Regents approved creation of the position of Associate Dean of Students,
along with several other organizational changes in the Student Services Unit at the
University of Michigan-Flint.
UM-Dearborn Housing Rental Rates
The Regents approved an increase in the 1988-89 rates for rental housing on the
UM-Dearborn campus to $300.00 for one-bedroom/married couple apartments and
$544.00 for two-bedroom/four-person apartments.
Creation of New Associate Vice President Position and Appointment of Virginia
Nordby to that Post
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved creation of the position of Associate Vice President in the
Office of the Vice President for Government Relations. They also approved the
appointment of Virginia Nordby to that post, effective June 1, 1988.


-245 -



April Meeting, 1988


Conversion of Mott Children's Hospital Patient Rooms from General Care to
Isolation
The Regents approved submission of a Certificate of Need to the Michigan
Department of Public Health for $265,000, to convert four existing patient rooms from
general care to isolation in the Mott Children's Hospital.
Recommendations for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On the recommendation of the Executive Board of the University of Michigan
Hospitals, the Regents approved several appointments to membership on the
University of Michigan Hospitals medical staff.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will be May 19 and 20, 1988. Transportation and accommodation costs for the month
of March 1988 totaled $5,441.65.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary


-246 -



MAY MEETING, 1988


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, May 19, 1988
The Regents met at 1:30 P.M. in Fair Lane Mansion on the campus of The
University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
and Smith. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost Duderstadt, and Vice
Presidents Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson were also present, as were
Chancellors Jenkins and Jones. Regents Varner and Waters were absent.
Minutes
President Fleming called the meeting to order. On a motion by Regent Baker,
seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents unanimously approved the minutes of the
meeting of April 1988.
Reports
Vice President Brinkerhoff submitted the Report on Investment Transactions,
the University Endowment Fund Quarterly Inventory, and the Plant Extension,
Litigation, and Personnel/Labor Relations Reports. Regarding the Litigation Report,
he noted that, as anticipated, Centel Communications has filed suit against the
University over the installation of the telecommunications systems on campus. In
response to a question from Regent Baker, Vice President Brinkerhoff stated that the
University will be pursuing the Centel case very aggressively.
Vice President Wilson filed reports on Research Volume Statistics, Summaries
of a Selection of Current Research and Sponsored Projects, and Awards Received,
Research and Other Academic Activities for the period of February 27-March 25,
1988.
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents voted to
receive the Reports.
CESF Report, UM-Dearborn
Associate Professor Linda Fisher presented the sixth annual report of the
Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty (CESF) for the Dearborn campus.
The report's major findings are that the Dearborn campus's salary rankings relative to
other Michigan Class IIA public institutions remain unchanged relative to the 1986-87
academic year; there are salary inequities between newly hired and experienced
faculty and between males and females in comparable positions; and that entry level
salaries are less than competitive with schools of the same calibre and insufficient to
attract competent faculty. Because the committee is aware that the University has
very limited resources for the coming year, it recommends as its highest priority
reducing the disparity between ranks, especially that between the Assistant and
Associate Professor levels.


-247 -



May Meeting, 1988


Regent Roach noted that the salary differential between new and experienced
faculty is not unique to higher education, but is common to nearly all professions. He
also agreed that salaries have not kept pace as much as the Regents would have liked,
but that this situation is the result of finite resources coupled with several very difficult
budget years. Professor Fisher responded that in light of these realities, the
committee feels that at the least, the administration should try to reduce the salary
disparity between experienced and inexperienced faculty in an effort to try to improve
the situation. Regent Roach also pointed out that if discrimination in pay on the basis
of sex is occurring, that would be contrary to University policies. Allegations of such
discrimination should be referred to the Affirmative Action office for investigation.
CESF Report, UM-Flint
Assistant Professor Jonathon Cox then gave the annual report of the Committee
on the Economic Status of the Faculty (CESF) for the Flint campus. In contrast to the
situation at the UM-Dearborn, salaries for associate professors at the UM-Flint are
more competitive than those for full professors and assistant professors. Among the
eleven other class IIa institutions used for comparison, salaries for UM-Flint associate
professors rank fourth, while those for full professors and assistant professors rank
eighth and tenth, respectively. This makes it difficult to attract and retain new faculty.
The other major problem faced by the Flint faculty is illustrated by the large number
of non-tenure-track lecturers on campus. At 19%, the UM-Flint ranks first among its
peers in the percentage of lecturers on the faculty. The CESF believes that this
situation has "serious negative consequences on the instructional and research goals of
the institution and its faculty". Regarding staff benefits, Professor Cox stated that the
CESF-Flint is encouraged by recent efforts to include faculty in the decision-making
process and pleased about the possibility of flexible benefits plans.
Discussion followed about certain details of the report.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted the Report of Gifts Received and the listing
of gifts of $5,000 and above for April 1988. The following gifts were received with
thanks and in accord with their terms and conditions:


-248 -



May Meeting, 1988


Abbott Laboratories Fund, North Chicago Illinois
pledge payment for research in the College of Pharmacy                     10,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School, and in the College of Pharmacy        113,746
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                         45,823
American Heart Association, Inc. Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                        178,687
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School, and in the Division of Physical Education  105,428
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                         28,250
Anti-Defamation League, New York, New York
for the Shanik-Flelscher Forum Series in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                           16,000
Armenian Historical Research Association, Newton Square, Pennsylvania
for support of The University of Michigan-Dearborn, Armenian Studies Program  14,046
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                                         14,583
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for fellowships and other support in the College of Engineering            13,600
Barton-Malow Company Foundation Detroit
Eledge payment for the new University of Michigan Hospital                  6,000
Mable Bemister Estate
for cancer research in The University of Michigan Hospitals                25,000
Best Products Foundation, Richmond, Virgnia
pledge payment for the Center for the Continuing Education of Women        30,000
Biocraft Laboratories, Inc., Elmwood Park, New Jersey
for cysteamine research in the Medical School                              50,000
Frank S. Bissell, Easton, Maryland
for the swimming and diving facility in the Department of Athletics         5,000
Bush Foundation, Saint Paul, Minnesota
for child development research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  153,687
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for support of the School of Natural Resources, and for Employee Matching Gifts  6,675
Chicago Community Trust Chicago Illinois
for research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts            15,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts,
and in the Medical School                                                  16,249
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration         5,000
Council on Library Resources, Washington, D.C.
for research in the School of Information and Library Studies              25,000
Cray Research Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for mathematics research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  5,000
Dennis Dahlmann, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for support of the
University Musical Society                                                  6,000
Dayton Hudson Department Store Company Minneapolis, Minnesota
for The University of Michigan-Flint, Summer Music Academy                  5,000
Deloitte, Haskins & Sells Foundation, New York, New York
pledge payments for the library and classrooms in the School of
Business Administration                                                    40,000
Peter C. Dendrinos, Traverse City
for the swimming and diving facility in the Department of Athletics         7,500
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
pledge payment for the instructional complex in the College of Engineering  40,000
Diabetes Research and Education Foundation, Bridgewater, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                         10,000
Digital Equipment Corporation, Hudson, Massachusetts
for the Robotics-Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  15,000
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for environmental health research in the School of Public Health           40,000
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for materials science support in the College of Engineering                40,000
Russell B. Duvall Trust
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School                           112,500
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor
for Russian and East European Studies research in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                           10,000
-249 -



May Meeting, 1988


Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for the Exxon Corporation Fellowship in the School of Business
Administration, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund                     10,100
First National Bank of Chicago Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                          6,335
O.C. Fischer, Inc., Royal Oak
for surgery-burn research in the Medical School, in memory of Oswald C. Fisher  30,000
Ford Foundation, New York New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science and
the Arts, and in the Institute of Public Policy Studies                  83,012
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and for
support of The University of Michigan-Dearborn                           13,000
Ford Motor Company Dearborn
for support of the College of Engineering                                85,000
General Dynamics, Saint Louis, Missouri
for aerospace construction in the College of Engineering,
and for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                     27,140
Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation San Francisco, California
for scholarships in the School of Music                                  29,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for automotive transportation research in the Institute of
Science and Technology                                                   15,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for support of'the School of Business Administration                     20,000
Lawrence M. Goodspeed Trust Farmington Hills
for support of the School of Business Administration                     10,000
Fredric H. Gould, Great Neck, New York
for the Judaic Studies Development Fund in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                          5,000
Eugene M. Grant & Company, New York, New York
pledge payment for the Judiac Studies Development Fund, and other
support in the College of Literature Science and the Arts                41,000
William T. Grant Foundation New York, New York,
for research in the College of Literature Science and
the Arts, the School of Social Work, and the Center for Human
Growth and Development                                                   45,774
Greenwich Pharmaceuticals, Fort Washington, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School                                       18,500
Guardian Industries, Northville
for the William Davidson Visiting Professorship in the School of
Business Administration                                                 150,000
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the School of Nursing                                     7,500
Hereditary Disease Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School                                       15,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for population studies research in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                    140,000
Charlotte Hine Estate,
for the Charlotte Hine Endowment Fund in the Medical School               7,940
International Business Machines Corporation, New Haven, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                         18,466
International Council for Canadian Studies, Ottawa, Canada
for support of the School of Business Administration Library              7,850
Jewish Welfare Federation of Detroit
for support of the School of Social Work                                  6,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                       13,222
Dow Jones Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
pledge payment for the Journalists in Residence Endowment in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts                              25,000
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                           8,460
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Social Work, and the Institute for Social Research  238,084
Kenny Michigan Rehabilitation Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                       12,094
Kidder Peabody Foundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                          5,225


-250 -



May Meeting, 1988


Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh
for the Forney W. Clement Memorial for patient care activities,
The University of Michigan Hospitals                                        9,393
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                         23,705
Lockheed Leadership Funds Burbank, California
pledge payment for the instructional complex in the College of Engineering  50,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation% Chicago Illinois
for the MacArthur Foundation Fellowship m the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                            5,000
Maccabees Mutual Life Insurance Company, Southfield
for the Maccabees Mutual Scholarship at The University of Michigan-Dearborn  10,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School                                         15,000
May Stores Foundation, Inc., Saint Louis, Missouri
for the Associates Program and the D.M. Phelps Fund in the School
of Business Administration, and for Employee-Matching Gifts                 5,275
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research fund                   6,677
Mobil Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
pledge payments for capital projects in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering                              25,000
Vincent Moore, Jr., La Mesa, California
for the L.C. Anderson Chemistry Lectureship in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts and for the Blanche Anderson
Moore Scholarship in the School of Music                                    6,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for the highway safety research in the Institute of Science and Technology  216,813
Charles StewartMott Foundation, Flint
for research at The University of Michigan-Flint                           50,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America,-nc., New York, New York
for research m the Medical School                                          22,500
Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Morgantown West Virginia
for cysteamine research in the Medical School                              50,000
National Hemophilia Foundation New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          6,250
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                          8,788
National Kidney Foundation, Inc. New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                         11,875
Leo Nevas Family Foundation, Inc., Westport, Connecticut
for the Raoul Wallenberg Medal and Lectureship Fund in the Horace
H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies                                       5,000
Samuel I. Newhouse Foundation, Inc. Newark, New Jersey
pledge payment for the Journalists in Residence Endowment in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts                                33,333
Northwest Airlines, Saint Paul, Minnesota
for support of the C.S. Mott Hospital, Benefit Golf Classic                10,000
Owens-Illinois Charities Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration  10,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for classical studies research in the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts                                                               59,000
Robert D. Paul New York New York
for the Hopwood Visiting Writers Fund in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                            5,000
Beahl T. Perrine, Cedar Rapids, Iowa
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                 15,000
Pew Memorial Trust, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the School of Public Health                               193,162
Pfizer, Inc., Groton, Connecticut
for the Pfizer Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy                       19,000
Plymouth Park, Ann Arbor
for support of the University Musical Society                              20,000
Leonard Rand, Chagrin Falls, Ohio
pledge payment for general endowment in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                        5,000
Louise G. Raphael, Atlanta, Georgia
for support of the University Musical Society                              25,000


-251 -



May Meeting, 1988


Edward F. Redies Foundation, Inc., Saline
pledge payment for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarhip in the School
of Busimess Administration                                                  5,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for Near Eastern and North Africian Studies research in the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts                                        66,915
Sage Foundation, Detroit
for research in the School of Education                                     7,500
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for chemistry and economics research in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                       25,000
Marion E. Sober, Ann Arbor
various corporate common stocks; for the F.D. Sober Memorial Fund in
the College of Literature Science and the Arts                             89,699
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for political studies research in the Institute for Social Research         7,200
Stanley Continental, Inc., Rolling Meadows, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                            5,445
Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Center for Fitness and Sports Research in the Division of
Physical Education                                                          5,000
Godfrey Dorr Stobbe Estate
for the Godfrey Dorr Stobbe Pathology Professorship in the Medical
Schools and for the President's Fund                                       25,944
Textron Charitable Trust, Providence, Rhode Island
for automotive transportation research in the Institute of Science
and Technology, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund                        5,350
Time, Inc., New York, New York
for fellowships in the School of Business Administration, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                     7,775
Dr. and Mars. Harry A. Towsley, Ann Arbor
for support of the University Musical Society                              50,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                11,414
Unisys Corporation, Detroit
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business
Administration, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund                       26,625
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Educational Foundation, Inc., New York,
New York; for research in the Center for Human Growth and Development      37,383
Universal Press Syndicate, Kansas City Missouri
for the Journalists m Residence Endowment in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                            5,000
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for support of the Schools of Medicine and Public Health, and for
Employee Matching Gifts fund                                               28,330
Kendle M. Wainio Estate
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                      5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains New Jersey
for cysteamine research in the Medical School                             150,000
John E. Warriner Trust
for the John E. Warriner Scholarship in the School of Education            34,685
Martha R. Westerberg, Ann Arbor
for the Russell. Dejong Professorship in the Medical School                5,000
Ronald J. Woods, Brighton
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                            15,000
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
ADR Ultrasound, Bothell, Washington
ultrasound equipment; for the Chelsea Family Practice Center
Jean C. Allen Midland, Texas
a Ruffino Tamayo gouache painting, for the Museum of Art
Garabed and Isabelle Belian, Birmniham
an Edward Avedisian acrylic, 'Simpsonville" (1980); for the Museum of Art
Elizabeth B. Bullard, Ann Arbor
an American oil painting of the White House (19th century); for the Museum of Art


-252 -



May Meeting, 1988


Evelyn Cranch, Fostoria, Ohio
various letterpress items and related equipment; for the School of Art
Frederick P. Currier Detroit
a collection of seven photographs; for the Museum of Art
Armando and Pauline Ghitalla, Ann Arbor
a mahogany desk and an 1886 Mason and Hamlin grand piano; for the School of Music
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
computer hardware and software; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Beatrice H. Kneeland, Bloomfield, Connecticut
a Paul Klee watercolor, "Danger of Lightning"; for the Museum of Art
Paul Laughlin, Ann Arbor
a Nicholas Nixon silver-gelatin print (1980); for the Museum of Art
Frances E. Lay Estate
a Japanese hanging scroll by Settei Tsukioka, "Leaping Carp" (18th century); for the Museum of Art
Harry H. Lunn- Jr. Paris, France
six Ansel Adams photographs (1941-1948); for the Museum of Art
Dr. and Mrs. Raymond W. Ruddon, Jr., Ann Arbor
furnishings; for the Department of Pharmacology Library
Alexander Sackton Austin, Texas
four pastel drawings; for the Museum of Art
David D. Soyer, New York, New York
a Moses Soyer painting, "Nude with Green Background"; for the Museum of Art
Peter D. Ward, Ann Arbor
an annual subscription to the National Legal Bibliography, and its related supporting documents;
for the Law School Library
WDIV-TV 4, Post-Newsweek Stations, Inc., Detroit
Four studio cameras, plus other television equipment; for Michigan Media
Takeshi Yamada Ann Arbor
two Takeshi Yamada intaglio prints; "Hats" and "Empire State Building"; for the Museum of Art
Personnel Actions
Annual Promotions. On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent
Power, the Regents approved 106 promotions of faculty to the ranks of Associate
Professor and Professor with tenure. Noting how impressed he was by the high calibre
of faculty described in the promotions material, Regent Power said the University
should try to find a way to communicate the excellence of its individual faculty
members to members of the University community and the general public.


-253 -



May Meeting, 1988


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective July 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Harry C. DeAngelo, Ph.D., Professor of Finance
Wayne S. DeSarbo, Ph.D., Professor of Marketing and Statistics, June 1, 1988; also appointed
Sebastian S. Kresge Professor of Marketing, for a five-year term, September 1,1988
Merritt B. Fox, J.D., Professor of Law
Richard F. Friedman, J.D., Professor of Law
A. Craig Hillemeier, M.D., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Jeffrey G. Heath, Ph.D., Professor of Internal Medicine
Gregory Lucente, Ph.D., Professor of Italian and Comparative Literature, September 1, 1988
David Winter, Ph.D., Professor of Psychology, September 1, 1988
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND
FULL PROFESSOR RANKS WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1988
Hamao FujiwaraDiploma D'Onore, Associate Professor of Music, for a five-year term
Nina Lelchuk, Ph.D., Professor of Music, for a three-year term
PROMOTIONS TO THE RANKS OF ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR
Effective September 1, 1988
School of Business Administration
Victor L. Bernard, from Associate Professor to Professor of Accounting, with tenure
Michael H. Bradley from Associate Professor to Professor of Finance, with tenure
Roger V. Johnson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Operations Management,
without tenure
Aneel G. Karnani, Associate Professor of Corporate Strategy, awarded tenure
Scott E. Masten, from Assistant Professor to Associate Pro~essor of Business Economics and
Public Policy, without tenure
Kathryn E. Stecke, Associate Professor of Operations Management, awarded tenure
Martin B. Zimmerman, from Associate Professor to Professor of Business Economics, with tenure,
also holds title Associate Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science and the
Arts, without tenure
College of Dentistr
David S.Carlson, from Associate Professor to Professor of Orthodontics and Pediatric
Dentistry, also holds title Associate Professor, Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology
with tenure, Medical School and Associate Professor of Anthropology, without tenure,
in the College of Literature Science and the Arts
W. Paul Lang, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
College of Engineering
JohnBoyd, rom Associate Professor to Professor of Atmospheric Science, with tenure
Robert M. Ziff, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure
Wayne E. Stark, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, with tenure
Gary D. Herrin, from Associate Professor to Professor of Industrial and Operations
Engineering, with tenure
Jeffrey K.Liker, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations
Engineering with tenure
Candace A. Yano, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations
Engineering with tenure
Albert F. Yee, Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, awarded tenure
Elijah Kannatey-Asibu Jr., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical
Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure
Jeffrey L. Stein, from Assstant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering
and Applied Mechanics with tenure
Anastassios N. Perakis, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Naval Architecture
and Marine Engineering, with tenure
William R. Martin, from Associate Professor to Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure
School of Information and Librarv Studies
Miranda Lee Pao, from Associate Professor to Professor of Information and Library Studies,
with tenure


-254 -



May Meeting, 1988


MathiasW. Reimann from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Law, without tenure
College of Literature. Science and the Arts
Barbra Boardman Smuts, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anthropology,
with tenure
Kenneth J. DeWoskin, from Associate Professor to Professor of Chinese Language and Literature,
with tenure
Douglas D. Richstone, from Associate Professor to Professor of Astronomy, with tenure
John T. Lehman, from Associate Professor to Professor of Biology, with tenure
Jeffrey D. Palmer, from the Arthur F. Thurnau Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Molecular Genetics, with tenure
John R. Pringle, from Associate Professor to Professor of Biology with tenure
William James Adams, from Associate Professor to Professor of Economics, with tenure
Carl P. Simon, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics, Economics, and Public
Policy, with tenure
Kerry Larson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English Language and
Literature, with tenure
Thorne Lay, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure
Carol F. Karlsen, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, with tenure
Elaine K. Gazda, from Associate Professor to Professor of Classical Art and Archaeology,
with tenure
David W. Gidley, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure
Gregory Tarle, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure
Ronald Kessler, from Associate Professor to Professor of Sociology with tenure
Karen Oppenheim Mason, from Associate Professor to Professor of Sociology, with tenure
Arland Thornton, from Associate Professor to Professor of Sociology, with tenure
Medical School
Peter Coyle from Associate Professor to Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure
Pamela A. Raymond, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell
Biology, with tenure
Toni C. Antonucci, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology,
without tenure
Ariel L. Barkan, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine,
with tenure
Josephine P. Briggs, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine,
with tenure
Francis S. Collins from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure,
also from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure
Arlene A. Forastiere, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with
tenure, also from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, without
tenure
Michael J. Shea, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with
tenure
Robert F. Todd, from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Stephen J. Weiss, from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Max S. Wicha, from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
David J. Fink, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Neurology, without tenure
Marina Mata, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Neurology without tenure
Paul R. Kileny, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure
Charles F. Koopman, Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, awarded tenure
Thomas M. Annesley, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Clinical Chemistry,
without tenure
Kent J. Johnson from Associate Professor to Professor of Pathology, with tenure
Kenneth D. McClatchey, from Associate Professor to Professor of Pathology, with tenure,
also holds title Associate Professor of Oral Pathology, without tenure
Paul E. McKeever, Associate Professor of Pathology, awarded tenure
Roger G. Faix, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, with tenure
Hylan C. Moises, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physiology, with tenure
Jeoffrey K. Stross, from Associate Professor to Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health
Professions Education without tenure, also holds title of Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Thomas P. Beresford, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, awarded tenure
Benedick A. Fraass, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology,
with tenure
Ramiro J. Hernandez, from Associate Professor to Professor of Radiology, with tenure


-255 -



May Meeting, 1988


Charles R. Meyer, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiological Sciences,
'with tenure
Edward L. Bove, from Associate Professor to Professor of Surgery, with tenure, in the
Department of Surgery and from Associate Professor to Professor of Surgery, without
tenure, in the Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Frederic E. Eckhauser, from Associate Professor to Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Steven A. Goldstein, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Thomas R. Stevenson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
School of Music
James Kibbie, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music, with tenure
Peter Sparling, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure
Collee of Pharnac
Heny. Mosberg, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Medicinal Chemistry,
with tenure
Division of Phvsical Education
Katarina T. Borer, from Associate Professor to Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure
School of Public Health
Adam Drewnowski, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Community Health
Programs, with tenure
Barbara A. Israel, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Health Behavior and
Health Education, with tenure
School ocial Work
Kathleen M. L. Faller, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Social Work,
with tenure
University of Michigan-Dearborn
Marilynn Rosenthal, from Associate Professor to Professor of Sociology, with tenure
Emily Spinelli, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Spanmsh, with tenure
Ali Bazi, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Leslie Tentler from Associate Professor to Professor of History with tenure
Arefaine Ghebre-Yohannes, Associate Professor of Business Administration, awarded tenure
University of Michigan-Flint
Bruce A. Richardson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure
Consuelo Provost, from Associate Professor to Professor of English, with tenure
Lois Matz Rosen, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English, with tenure
Douglas E. Miller, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Art and German, with tenure
Reinhard H. Thum, from Associate Professor to Professor of German, with tenure
Bruce A. Rubenstem, from Associate Professor to Professor of History, with tenure
Kenneth Schilling, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
Mary E. Cox, from Associate Professor to Professor of Physics and Engineering with tenure
Beverly J. Schmoll, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of PhysicafTherapy
Program, with tenure
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Arthur W. Burks Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and
Professor Emeritus of Philosophy, reappointedto continue as co-director on a National
Science Foundation research proiect for the College of Engineering, September 1, 1988
Olin L. Browder Jr James V. Campbell Professor Emeritus, reappointed to teach a class
in the Law School, Fall term 1988
Halvor N. Christensen, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, reappointed to
continue as principal investigator on a research grant for the Medical School
for a one-year period
Edward H. Cooper, Professor of Law, reappointed as Associate Dean for Academic Affairs for the
Law School, for a three year period
Robert L. Kyes, Professor of German, reappointed as Chair of the Department of Germanic
Languages and Literatures for a three-year term
Herbert Sloan, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, reappointed to continued to teach in the
Department of Surgery, Section of Thoracic Surgery, for a one-year period
Allan T. Stillwagon, reappointed Assistant Dean and Admissions Officer of the Law School
June 1,1988


-256 -



May Meeting, 1988


Roman Szporluk, Professor of History, reappointed as Director of the Center for
Russian and East European Studies, for a three-year term, September 1 1988
Myron E. Wegman, Dean Emeritus and John G. Searle Professor Emeritus of Public Health
reappointed to teach a class for the School of Public Health, for the Spring/Summer
Term 1988, May 1, 1988
Charles Frederick Yocum, Professor of Biological Sciences and Professor of Chemistry,
reappointed Chair, Department of Biology, for a three-year term
Robert B.Zajonc, Charles Horton Cooley Distmguished University Professor of Social
Sciences and Psychology, Research Scientist, reappointed Director of the Research
Center for Group Dynamics, for a five-year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Sally Lyman Alien, Professor of Biology, with tenure, appointed Associate Dean for
Facilities and Administration for a three-year term
Steven C. Althoen, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, appointed Chair of the Department
of Mathematics, UM-Flint, for a three-year term
Thomas Bloom, Assistant Professor of Theatre, without tenure, appointed Chair of the
Department of Theatre, UM-Flint for a two-year term
Ham Burning, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, appointed Arthur F. Thurnau Professor,
for a three-year term
Edna Coffin, Professor of Modern Hewbrew, appointed Arthur F. Thurnau Professor for a
three-year term
James Dapogny, Professor of Music, appointed Arthur F. Thurnau Professor for a three-year term
Herbert J. Eagle, Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure,
Associate Professor in the Residential College, without tenure, appointed Interim
Director of the Residential College
Diane M. Kirkpatrick, Professor of Art, with tenure, appointed Chair of the Department of History of
Art, for a three-year term
Lewis Klemnsmith, Professor of Biology, and Research Scientist, Consortium for Research
in Development and Reproduction Biology, appointed Arthur F. Thurnau Professor
for a three-year term
Kathleen Lavoie, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, appointed Chair of the Department
of Biology, UM-Flint, for a three-year term
Jack W. Meiland, Professor of Philosophy, and Associate Dean for Long Range Planning
appointed the Arthur F. Thurnau Professor for a three-year term
L. Nathan Oaklander, Professor of Philosophy, appointed Chair of the Department of Philosophy,
UM-Flint, one-year term
David H. O'Keeffe, Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, appointed Chair of the
Department of Chemistry, UM-Flint, for a three-year term
Henry Nathan Pollack, Professor of Geological Sciences with tenure, appointed Chair
of the Department of Geological Sciences, for a three-year term
William G. Rosenberg, Professor of History, with tenure, appointed Acting Director
of the Center for Russian and East European Studies September 1, 1988
Raymond W. Ruddon, Professor of Pharmacology and Chair of the Department of Pharmacology
appointed to the Maurice H. Seevers Collegiate Professor for a five-year term June 1, 1988
George B. Simmons, Professor of Population Planning and International Health, and Professor
of Population and Health Planning, Public Health Policy and Administration, appointed
Chair of the Department of Popuation Planning and International Health and
Director of the Center for Population Planning or a three-year term
William A. Stapp, Professor of Resource Planning and Conservation, appointed Arthur F.
Thurnau Professorship for a three-year term
Keshav S. Varde, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, appointed Chair of the Department
of Mechanical Engineering for a three-year term, M-Dearborn
J. Frank Yates, Professor of Psychology, appointed Arthur F. Thurnau Professor for a
three-year term
The following committee appointments were approved:
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Daniel E. Moerman, to succeed himself, for a three-year term, July 1,1988 through June 30,1991
Alfred C. Raphelson, for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice
Wesley D. Rae, term expired


-257 -



May Meeting, 1988


Mental Health Research Institute Advisory Committee
Richard C. Adelman, to succeed himself, for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991
College ofArchitecture and Urban PlanningExecutive Committee
Robert M. Darvas, for a two-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice Hemalata
Dandekar, term expired
Allan G. Feldt, for a two-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice Robert
W. Marans, term expired
School of Education Executive Committee
James L. Miller Jr for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice Phyllis
C. Blumenfed, term expired
Loren S. Barritt, for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice Frederick L. Goodman,
term expired
School of Public Health Executive Committee
John P. Kirscht, for a three-year term, September 1, 1988 through August 31, 1991,
vice Noreen M. Clark, term expired
John H. Romani, for a three-year term, September 1, 1988 through August 31, 1991,
vice Jill G. Joseph, term expired
School of Social Work Executive Committee
Srinia D. Jayaratne for a three-year term, September 1, 1988 through August 31, 1991,
vice John E. fropman, term expired
Harvey J. Bertcher for a three-year term, September 1, 1988 through August 31, 1991,
vice Sheila c. Feld, term expired
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Shake Keteian, for a three-year term, September 1, 1988 through August 31, 1991,
vice David E. Crawford, term expired
Stephen E. Kesler, for a three-year term, September 1, 1988 through August 31, 1991,
vice Alan B. MacNee, term expired
J. Frank Yates for a three-year term, September 1, 1988 through August 31, 1991, vice
Karen 6. Mason, term expired
Stephen L. Darwall, for a three-year term, September 1, 1988 through August 31, 1991, vice
George H. Jones term expired
Hugh L. Montgomery for a one-year term, September 1, 1988 through August 31, 1989,
vice Frederick W. Gehring, resined
Noel M. Valis, for the period January, 1989 through August 31, 1989, vice Enoch Brater,
on leave
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics Alumni Members
Arthur B. McWood, Jr., to succeed himself, for a three-year term, June 1, 1988
through May 31, 1991
School of Business Administration Executive Committee
Victor L. Bernard, for a two-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1990, vice
George J. Siedell, III, term expired
George Cameron, III, for a two-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1990, vice
Richard P. Bagozz term expired
School of Management. UM-Flint. Executive Committee
C. Peethambaran Kartha, for a two-year term, September 1, 1988 through August 31, 1990,
vice John D. Marquardt, term expired
Kristin D. Skivington, for a two-year term September 1, 1988 through August 31, 1990,
vice Hossein Schalchi, term expired
College of Arts and Sciences. UM-Flint Executive Committee
Douglas E. Miller, for a three-year term, July 1, 1988, through June 30, 1991, vice
Anita K. Barry, term expired
Paul K. Peterson, for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice
Harriet M. Wall, term expired
Lois M. Rosen, for a one-year term, effective immediately, through June 30, 1989, vice
Mary A. Cooper, resigned


-258 -



May Meeting, 1988


F. Bruce Fralick Professorship in Ophthalmology. The Regents approved the
establishment of a new Collegiate Professorship, the F. Bruce Fralick Professorship in
Ophthalmology. This was established as a chairman's professorship, such that the
incumbent chairman of the Department of Ophthalmology will be the only individual
to hold it.
Director and Associate Director of Intercollegiate Athletics. On a motion by
Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents moved to approve the
appointments of Glenn E. [Bo] Schembechler as Director of Intercollegiate Athletics
and John P. [Jack] Weidenbach as Associate Director of Intercollegiate Athletics,
effective July 1, 1988. President Fleming commented that although the selection
process turned out to be lengthy and somewhat controversial, everyone is pleased with
the results. The dual appointment was originally proposed by Regent Smith, and her
idea appears to have been met with a wide degree of public approval. In his opinion,
he continued, the University ultimately benefits by its appointment of two individuals,
who together are stronger than any one would have been. "In Bo, we have an
outstanding national coach who knows the athletic game and is superb in terms of his
dealing with people and the public aspect of coaching," he said, "while in Jack
Weidenbach we got a superb, skilled manager who works on the day-to-day affairs.
We were very pleased with that." Regent Smith agreed, stating that she was gratified
that the joint appointment had been met with such overwhelming support and
approval, and that the Regents had made a wise decision. The appointments of Glenn
E. Schembechler and John P. Weidenbach were approved unanimously.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following Personnel Reports:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective May 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Visitin Professor
DeWitt S. Dykes, Jr., MA., Center for Afroamerican and African Studies, Literature, Science
and the Arts
Kazutaka Tomizawa, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, March 1, 1988
Visitin Assistant Professor
Jeffrey E. Mirel, Ph.D., Education
Adiunct Assistant Professor
Barbara Hirshorn, Ph.D., Sociology
James M. Lepkowski, Ph.D., Biostatistics, February 1, 1988
Adiunct Lecturer
Joy M. Harsen, M.P.H., Health Behavior and Health Education
Yuri L. Rabinovich, Education, UM-Dearborn, January 1, 1988
Clinical Professor I
Naomi Breslau, Ph.D., Psychiatry, March 1, 1988
Clinical Associate Professor I
Barry Skarf, Ph.D., Ophthalmology, April 1, 1988
Clinical Instructor I
Dalbert W. Fears, D.D.S., M.S., Dentistry, January 1 1988
Larry D. Wagenknecht, B.S., Pharmacy, April 1, 1988


-259 -



May Meeting, 1988


LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Sabbatical
Richard D. Duke Professor of Urban Planning with tenure, Architecture and Urban Planning
Kenneth D. McClatchey, Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, Medical School,
also Associate Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, April 1, 1988
George B. Simmons, Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration, with tenure,
November 22, 1987
James A. Taren, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, January 1, 1988
Extended Sick
Lawrence D. Kugler, Dean and Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Flint, January 23, 1988
Leave without Salary
Mary L. Parker, Nursing, March 22, 1988
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
effective May 31, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Professor
Thomas C. Holt, History
Phillip A. Plato, Environmental and Industrial Health
Camilla Wicks, Music
Assistant Professor
Eser U. Belding, School of Management, UM-Flint
Jan P. Clement, Health Services Management and Policy
Michael L. Hartzmark, Business Administration and Economics
Debora K. Shuger, English Language and Literature
Maria T. Wolff, Romance Languages and Literatures
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Michael F. Stewart, English, UM-Flint, March 31, 1988
Clinical Professor
Dietrich P. Blumer, Psychiatry, March 31, 1988
Clinical Instructor
Robert A. Garwood Psychiatry, March 31, 1988
John J. Jacisin, Psychiatry, March 31, 1988


-260 -



May Meeting, 1988


Retirement Memoirs
Provost Duderstadt submitted 23 retirement memoirs for approval by the
Regents, and noted the remarkable achievements and dedicated service to the
University they represent. The Regents unanimously adopted the following
Retirement Memoirs:
John M. Armstrong, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, will retire from
active faculty status as of May 31, 1988, following a career devoted to teaching,
research, publication, and service to The University of Michigan and the engineering
profession.
Professor Armstrong received his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in industrial
engineering from The University of Michigan in 1959, 1960, and 1969, respectively.
He was appointed assistant professor of civil engineering in 1969 and associate
professor in 1972. He was acting director of the Sea Grant Program in 1970 and
director from 1971 to 1974. From 1972 to 1980, Professor Armstrong also served as
the director of the Coastal Zone Laboratory and Great Lakes Management Program.
Contributions by Professor Armstrong in the field of water resources and
management are well recognized. He is noted for his teaching of operations research
and systems analysis in water resources, research administration, and for organizing
sponsored research with governmental sponsoring agencies. He is co-author of two
books on coastal zone management and author of a number of research papers on
coastal zone management and water resource management and economics.
The Regents now salute this distinguished engineering educator, researcher, and
practitioner for his contributions and dedicated service by naming John M. Armstrong
Associate Professor Emeritus of Civil Engineering.
William S. Benninghoff, Professor of Botany in the Department of Biology, will
retire from active faculty status as of May 31, 1988, after thirty-one years of service.
Professor Benninghoff received his S.B. degree magna cum laude from Harvard
University in 1940, and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees, also from Harvard University, in
1942 and 1948, respectively. From 1943 to 1946, he served in the Atlantic, the
Caribbean, the Mediterranean, and the Pacific as a deck officer in the United States
Navy. From 1948 to 1957, he was a botanist with U.S. Geological Survey in
Washington, D.C. In 1957, Professor Benninghoff joined the faculty of The University
of Michigan as an associate professor; he was promoted to professor in 1960.
Professor Benninghoff began phytosociological studies and glacial geological
field work in Michigan and neighboring states while broadening his understanding of
the terrain and ecology of Antarctica. Increasingly, he applied his palynological skills
to the analysis of Quaternary vegetation and to the dissemination of pollen and spores
in the atmosphere. As a result, he published numerous papers that have been widely
cited.
The breadth of his interests and the serious and intense application of his
research have gained Professor Benninghoff international recognition and audiences.
Included among the invited presentations he has made are the 1984 Symposium of the
Internationale Vereinigung fur Vegetationskunde in Tokyo, the 1985 Opening Lecture
to the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, and the 1985 Symposium
on Antarctic Conservation in Bonn, West Germany.
Professor Benninghoff has been elected an honorary member of the
International Association or Aerobiology and belongs to numerous other scientific
organizations. In addition, he has been a member of such national and international
commissions as the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and the
Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research.


-261 -



May Meeting, 1988


Professor Benninghoffs quotidian responsibilities as a faculty member and
teacher have been handled professionally; he has been the mentor of doctoral students
who have contributed in their own right to plant ecology, aerobiology, and palynology.
His notable contributions to the College and the University include service as both
curator of ecology and director of the Matthaei Botanical Gardens.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his many
contributions to the Department of Biology and the University community by naming
William S. Benninghoff Professor Emeritus of Botany.
Bernice F. Blamer, Assistant Professor of Education, will retire from active
faculty status from The University of Michigan-Flint as of May 31, 1988, after a most
productive career as a teacher, advisor, and scholar.
Professor Blamer received her B.S. degree from Central Michigan University in
1944 and her A.M. degree from the University of Michigan in 1960. She joined the
faculty of The University of Michigan-Flint as a part-time lecturer in 1957; she became
a full-time lecturer in 1963 and instructor in 1971. In 1972, she was promoted to
assistant professor of education.
Professor Blamer has been an outstanding instructor in the field of education
and has served as the faculty advisor to the local chapter of Kappa Delta Pi, a national
honor fraternity in education. She has also served as a University representative to
many organizations in the community as a professional educator.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for her dedicated service by
naming Bernice F. Blamer Assistant Professor Emeritus of Education.
Donald E. Cleveland, Professor of Civil E ng, will retire from active
faculty status as of May 31, 1988, at the completion of a career of excellence in
teaching, research, publication, and service to The University of Michigan and the
engineering profession.
Professor Cleveland received his B.S. degree from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology in 1949, his M.S. degree from Yale University in 1959, and his Ph.D.
degree from Texas A & M University in 1962. He joined the faculty of The University
of Michigan as Associate Professor of Civil Engineering in 1965 following academic
experience at Yale, Texas A & M, and the University of Virginia. He was promoted
to Professor in 1968. He has served as the leader of transportation engineering at The
University of Michigan, has authored two texts, and contributed to professional
handbooks used in transportation engineering.
Research conducted by Professor Cleveland led to increased usage of digital
computers in urban transportation lanning. His recent work has emphasized highway
safety and operational characteristics of highway design and control measures. He has
lectured broadly on the topic throughout America and at a number of overseas sites in
Europe and Japan. In addition, he has been active in multidisciplinary motor vehicle
accident investigations for the Department of Transportation and as a private
consultant. His contributions in the field of transportation engineering education are
substantial.
The Regents now salute this distinguished engineering educator, researcher, and
practitioner for his contributions an  dedicated service by naming Donald E.
Cleveland Professor Emeritus of Civil Engineering.
Charles L. Dolph, Professor of Mathematics, will retire from active faculty
status as of May 31, 1988, after a most productive career as a teacher and researcher.
A native of Ann Arbor, Professor Dolph received his A.B. degree from The
University of Michigan in 1939, his M.A. degree from Princeton University in 1941,
and his Ph.D. degree from Princeton University in 1944. He was a physicist in the


-262 -



May Meeting, 1988


Naval Research Laboratory from 1943 to 1944 and an ensign in the United States
Navy from 1944 to 945. From 945 to 1 1946, he was a member of the technical staff at
Bell Telephone Laboratories. Professor Dolph joined the faculty of The University of
Michigan in 1946 when he accepted a joint appointment in the Mathematics
Department and the Department of Engineering Research. He was appointed
assistant professor of mathematics in 1947, associate professor in 1954, and professor
in 1960.
Professor Dolph's research covered a wide range of problems in applied
mathematics. Among the topics discussed in his fifty-five papers are antenna theory,
compressible fluid now, shock problems, stochastic processes, plasma physics,
atmospheric science, scattering theory, singular expansion methods, and
non-self-adjoint operators. His work has had an impact on many engineering
problems that involve scattering, such as radar, and he was in heavy demand as a
consultant. He was awarded the J. Browder Thompson Award in 1947 by the Institute
of Electrical and Electronic Engineers.
Professor Dolph directed four doctoral theses and frequently visited abroad,
serving three times as guest professor in German universities. He served as associate
editor for the Journal of Mathematics Analysis and Applications since its founding in
1960.
The Regents now salute this distinguished mathematician for his dedicated
service as a researcher and teacher by naming Charles L. Dolph Professor Emeritus of
Mathematics.
Elizabeth L. Eisenstein, Alice Freeman Palmer Professor of History, a
productive scholar of international renown, will retire from active faculty status as of
May 31, 1988.
A native of New York City, Professor Eisenstein received her B.A. degree from
Vassar College in 1944 and her M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Radcliffe College in
1947 and 1953, respectively. From 1959 to 1974, she taught history at the American
University in Washington, D.C. In 1975, she was appointed the Alice Freeman Palmer
Professor of History at The University of MichigHistan; she wasat the University of Michigan; she was the second person to hold
that chair.
Professor Eisenstein is widely recognized as an expert on the history of the
French Revolution. Her book, The First Professional Revolutionist: F.M. Buonarroti,
and her articles on the social origins of the French Revolution are much cited, and
continue to hold a significant place in current scholarship. In 1979, she won the Ralph
Waldo Emerson Prize of Phi Beta Kappa for her two-volume masterwork, The Printing
Press as an Agent of Change, the result of her interest in the impact of printing on
society in the west. Instantly hailed as a major achievement, her study, ranging from
the Renaissance to the Enlightent, cut across many fields of scholarship,
embracing the role of the the church, the state, commerce, and science; concepts of
tradition, time, and truth; and the broad impact of graphic images, map making, and
fixed texts. Her scholarship has earned many awards in national scholarly
organizations, including election as a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences in 1981. Her contributions to teaching and to the intellectual life of the
Department of History have been exemplary.
The Regents now salute this distinguished historian for her dedicated service by
naming Elizabeth L. Eisenstein Professor Emeritus of History.
Robert B. Harris, Professor of Civil Engineering, will retire from active faculty
status as of May 31, 1988, following a career manifested by excellence in teaching,
publication, and service to The University of Michigan and the engineering profession.
Professor Harris received his B.S. degree in architectural engineering from the
-263 -



May Meeting, 1988


University of Colorado in 1940 and his M.S. degree in civil engineering from
California Institute of Technology in 1947. He joined The University of Michigan
faculty in 1947 as an instructor in civil engineering. He was promoted to assistant
professor in 1949, associate professor in 1957 and professor in 1966. He was associate
chairman of the Civil Engineering Department from 1967 to 1987 and acting chairman
for three semesters during that period.
Professor Harris has served the University in many ways. He was associated
with University commencements from 1950 to 1987, and served as chief marshal from
1970 to 1987. Besides having authored a number of professional papers, he is the
author of Precedence and Arrow Networking Techniques for Construction, a textbook
that is referred to throughout the world.
Under Professor Harris' leadership, the construction engineering program at
The University of Michigan has grown to be one of the most significant programs in
the United States. As evidence of his dedication to the welfare of students, Professor
Harris has served as faculty advisor to the student chapter of the American Society of
Civil Engineers and to the American Society of Civil Engineers National Committee
on Student Chapters. He also served as president and counselor of the Civil
Engineering Honor Society for the North Central District of Chi Epsilon.
The Regents now salute this distinguished engineering educator, researcher, and
practitioner for his contributions and dedicated service by naming Robert B. Harris
Professor Emeritus of Civil Engineering.
Thomas Hilbish, Professor of Music in the School of Music, and Lecturer in
Education in the School of Education, will retire from active faculty status as of May
31, 1988.
Professor Hilbish received his B.Mus. degree from the University of Miami in
1941. From 1941 to 1946, he served as a United States Navy pilot. He then studied at
Westminister Choir College in Princeton, New Jersey and received his M.Mus. degree
in 1948. In subsequent years, he pursued doctoral work and postgraduate study at
Columbia, Rutgers, and Indiana Universities. He also served as visiting professor at
New York University, Princeton University, Westminister Choir College, and at The
University of Michigan.
From 1948 to 1964, Professor Hilbish was the choral director at Princeton High
School in Princeton, New Jersey. His impeccable work with the Princeton High
School Choir brought him many recognitions, including several trips with the choir to
foreign countries sponsored by the Department of State. Concurrently, he was
Director of Music at the Princeton Methodist Church from 1948 to 1960, and Director
of Music at the Hun School in Princeton from 1959 to 1964.
The outstanding choral program established at Princeton High School attracted
the attention of members of the music faculty at The University of Michigan, who
invited Professor Hilbish to serve as guest lecturer for the winter and summer terms in
1965. That year, he was appointed associate professor of music. He was promoted to
professor of music in 1968, and received a joint appointment as lecturer in education
n 1972.
During his tenure at The University of Michigan, Professor Hilbish conducted
more than one hundred public performances in Ann Arbor. Perhaps his most
significant contributions, however, have been to lead choral ensembles on tours
abroad. In this capacity he traveled to Spoleto, Italy in 1969 to lead the
choir-in-residence at the Festival of Two Worlds; to the U.S.S.R. for a seven-week
tour in 1972; to the Canary Islands in the summers of 1975 and 1976 as leader of the
choir-in-residence for the Las Palmas Opera Festival; and to Czechoslovakia,
Hungary, and Poland for a five-week tour in 1983. The unforgettable experiences that
The University of Michigan students had in connection with this cultural outreach are


-264 -



May Meeting, 1988


a tribute to Professor Hilbish's energy as both an entrepreneur and a music director.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Thomas Hilbish
Professor Emeritus of Music.
Dallas L. Jones, Professor of Industrial Relations in the School of Business
Administration, will retire from active faculty status as of May 31, 1988.
Professor Jones received his B.A. degree magna cum laude in 1950 from
Augustana College and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Cornell University in 1952
and 1954, respectively. In 1950, he began his teaching career at Cornell University,
followed by an appointment as assistant professor from 1954 to 1956 at the University
of Colorado. In 1956, he joined the faculty of The University of Michigan as assistant
professor of industrial relations. He was promoted to associate professor in 1958 and
professor in 1963.
Throughout his career, Professor Jones' research interest was in
labor-management relations. Later, his research activity focused more specifically on
labor negotiations, arbitrable decisions and residency requirements for public
employees, and procedural problems in arbitration. He published numerous articles
and several books in these areas.
Professor Jones was always viewed as an excellent and caring teacher by his
students and colleagues. He currently serves as the executive secretary/treasurer of
the National Academy of Arbitrators, a position he will hold until 1989. In recognition
of his many years of service to the Academy, he was recently named as recipient of its
Distinguished Service Award.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator by naming Dallas L. Jones
Professor Emeritus of Industrial Relations.
Vi-Cheng Liu, Professor of Aerospace Engineering in the College of
Engineering, will retire from active faculty status as of May 31, 1988.
Professor Liu received his B.S. degree from Chiao-Tung University, Shanghai,
China in 1940, and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from The University of Michigan in
1947 and 1951, respectively. He joined The University of Michigan faculty in the
Aerospace Engineering Department shortly after completing his graduate studies and
was appointed professor in 1959.
Professor Liu has made major contributions to science and engineering through
the meticulous training he provided to his doctoral students. Each of his numerous
students has become a leader in the field. He pioneered the introduction of a course
in rarefied gas dynamics and high speed glow in the aerospace engineering curriculum,
thus making a strong contribution to the preparation of students for the demands of
modern space technology. Professor Liu was responsible for administering the
preliminary examination for Ph.D. candidacy in the area of gas dynamics, and was the
advisor for that graduate program. He was also a member of the Engineering College
library committee.
Among his wide-range research interests were aerodynamics, rarefied gas
dynamics, geophysical fluid dynamics, planetary atmospheric physics, and space
plasmas. He did pioneering work in the application of rarefied gas dynamics and
plasma dynamics to the determination of satellite and space vehicle drag. In this
connection, he wrote invited reviews on interplanetary gas dynamics and ionospheric
aerodynamics. His work in geophysics spanned pioneering studies of internal gravity
waves, an explanation of the Tunguska meteor crater in the Soviet Union, and the
genesis of tornados.
Professor Liu is a member of the American Geophysical Union, the American
Physical Society, and the New York Academy of Science. He is an Associate Fellow of
the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, a member of Sigma Xi, and is


-265 -



May Meeting, 1988


listed in Who's Who in America and American Men of Science.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Vi-Cheng
Liu Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engieerng.
Roger C. Lyndon, Professor of Mathematics, will retire from active faculty status
as of May 31, 1988, after a most productive career as a teacher, researcher, and
author.
A native of Calais, Maine, Professor Lyndon received his A.B., M.A., and Ph.D.
degrees from Harvard University in 1939, 1941, and 1946, respectively. He was a
scientific liaison officer in the Office of Naval Research from 1946 to 1948 and was on
the Princeton University faculty from 1948 to 1953. Professor Lyndon joined The
University of Michigan faculty in 1953 as assistant professor of mathematics; he was
promoted to associate professor in 1956 and professor in 1959.
Professor Lyndon has had a very distinguished research career which continues
unabated. As an undergraduate, he discovered a serious flaw in the structure of
Quine's foundations of mathematical logic. His thesis on spectral sequences formed a
cornerstone upon which homological algebra was built. Its appeal was the universality
of its application. Professor Lyndon's interests have centered on logic and
combinatorial group theory; heor   established modem geometric group theory almost
single-handedly. He has written more than seventy research papers, each of which
provides incisive insight into the problem under examination. He is the author of
three books: Notes in Logic, Groups and Geometry, and Combinatorial Group Theory.
The latter, co-authored with former student PA. Schupp, has become the standard
reference source in the field.
Professor Lyndon has directed thirteen doctoral theses and is presently directing
two others. Over the years, he held a number of conmmittee assignments within the
Mathematics Department, as well as associate chairman for education from 1970 to
1972. He is frequently sought as a lecturer, and has held visiting professorships at
universities in England, France, and the United States.
The Regents now salute this distinguished mathematician for his dedicated
service as a researcher and teacher by naming Roger C. Lyndon Professor Emeritus of
Mathematics.
Howard H. Martin, Professor of Communication in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status as of May 31, 1988, after
twenty-four years of service.
A native of Wisconsin, Professor Martin received his B.S., M.A., and Ph.D.
degrees from Northwestern University in 1945, 1948, and 1955, respectively. His
teaching career in the field of speech began in 1949 at Allegheny College, Meadville,
Pennsylvania. He also taught at Pomona College, Claremont, California from 1958 to
1964, where he assumed the position of acting dean of men.
In 1964, Professor Martin joined The University of Michigan faculty as an
associate professor of speech; he was promoted to professor in 1969. He established a
national reputation as a scholar of rhetoric studies, publishing numerous articles in
this area, and also became an authority on presidential speech makin. He served as
associate editor of both the Central States Speech Journal and Communication
Monographs, and authored two major textbooks on speech.
Professor Martin taught very popular courses in persuasion, in media and
society, and in public address. In 1975, he was awarded the AMOCO Good Teaching
Award for outstanding undergraduate instruction. His numerous doctoral students,
many of whom have gone on to important research or teaching careers in higher
education, still look to Professor Martin as a wise and inspiring mentor within the
communication discipline.


-266 -



May Meeting, 1988


The Regents now salute this distinguished speech educator for his dedicated
service by naming Howard H. Martin Professor Emeritus of Communication.
Ladislav Matejka, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, will retire
from active faculty status as of May 31, 1988, after a very productive career as a
scholar and teacher.
A native of Czechoslovakia, Professor Matejka received his undergraduate and
graduate education -- interrupted by the Nazi occupation -- at Charles University,
Prague, where he was awarded his D.Phil. degree in 1948 with a dissertation in Slavic
literature. Serving as the cultural editor of Lidove Noviny at the time of the
Communist coup d'etat in 1948, he fled to Sweden, where he taught at the University
of Lund for five years before coming to the United States. In 1955, he entered
Harvard University in pursuit of his second doctorate, which he received in 1961 with
a thesis in Slavic linguistics directed by the late Roman Jakobson.
Professor Matejka joined The University of Michigan faculty in 1959 as an
assistant professor and rose quickly to professor in 1965. During his career at The
University of Michigan, he taught a wide variety of courses in Slavic linguistics tand
literary theory. He also carried on an active career in research, gaining international
recognition for publications in fields ranging from historical and descriptive linguistics
to semiotics and literary theory, including numerous books and scores of articles which
he authored or edited.
Professor Matejka is widely recognized for establishing Michigan Slavic
Publications, a scholarly publishing program sponsored by the Department of Slavic
Languages and Literatures. With very little funding, but with an enormous sacrifice of
time and energy, he built Michigan Slavic Publications into a leading publisher of
scholarly works in Slavic languages, literatures, and culture. Especially notable was
the successful launching                                    ion Central
European civilization, now in its seventh year.
Professor Matejka has played a key role in the day-to-day life of his department,
serving with dedication and enthusiasm on important committees. Throughout his
years at The University of Michigan he has been an intellectual leaderd nd a catalyst
among peers and students alike. While his absence from the classroom will be sorely
felt, his colleagues look forward to many more fruitful years of collaboration with him
in research and publishing. A previous holder of the Fulbright, Ford, and
Guggenheim Fellowships, during his first year of retirement he expects to return to
Prague in order to complete research for a new critical edition of the enigmatic Reims
Gospel.
The Regents now salute this accomplished teacher, scholar, and publisher by
naming Ladislav Matejka Professor Emeritus of Slavic Languages and Literatures.
John M. McCollum, Professor of Music, will retire from active faculty status as
of May 31, 1988.
Professor McCollum received his B.A. degree in journalism from the University
of California, Berkeley in 1947. He served in the United States Navy as an aviator
from 1943 to 1946 and as city editor and advertising manager of the Coalinga Record
in Coalinga, California from 1946 to 1950.
From 1951 to 1952, Professor McCollum pursued vocal and theatrical training in
New York City; he made his debut at Town Hall in 1952. He subsequently performed
as tenor soloist with the symphony orchestras of Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Los
Angeles, New York, and Philadelphia; in opera with the New York Opera, Seattle
Opera, and the Washington Opera Society; and in recital and concert appearances
throughout the United States. He made several recordings, including releases on
Columbia, Decca, and RCA Victor, performing under the direction of such


-267 -



May Meeting, 1988


distinguished conductors as Leonard Bernstein and Fritz Reiner.
While maintaining an active performance career, Professor McCollum joined
The University of Michigan faculty in 1962 as an associate professor of Music; he was
promoted to professor in 1965. Professor McCollum's students have been very
successful: Former students can be found in the Metropolitan Opera, New York City
Opera, in other full-time singing careers, and in teaching positions at more than
twenty-five institutions of higher education. One of Professor McCollum's most
notable achievements during his tenure at The University of Michigan was his
involvement in a fourteen-program television series during 1972 to 1973. Produced in
conjunction with the University Television Center, Professor McCollum served as
host, script writer, program director, and performer. The program, titled 'The Singer's
Art," has been disseminated on a number of public broadcast stations.
During the summers of 1963 to 1975, Professor McCollum was an artist-faculty
member at the Aspen Music Festival in Aspen, Colorado. He served as director of the
University Division at the National Music Camp at Interlochen, Michigan in the
summers of 1976 to 1977, and was chairman of the Voice Department in the School of
Music from 1965 to 1975.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming John M.
McCollum Professor Emeritus of Music.
William C. Parkinson, Professor of Physics in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status as of May 31, 1988, after a long and
distinguished career.
A native of Ontario, Professor Parkinson came to Ann Arbor in 1932, and
became a naturalized citizen in 1942. He received his B.S.E., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees
from The University of Michigan in 1940, 1942, and 1947, respectively. During World
War II, Professor Parkinson was a research physicist at The Johns Hopkins University
with duties for the Office of Scientific Research and Development that took him to
Europe from 1943 to 1945. In 1947, he was appointed to The University of Michigan
faculty as instructor of physics. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1948,
associate professor in 1953, and professor in 1958. In 1952 to 1953, he was a Fulbright
Research Scholar at the Cavendish Laboratory at Cambridge University, England.
As a junior faculty member, Professor Parkinson worked with colleagues and
students on the 42-inch cyclotron. It became evident that a large accelerator was the
key to progress in nuclear research when Professor Parkinson, together with Lawrence
Jones, Kent Terwilliger, and other colleagues, proposed the construction of an 83-inch
isochronous-cyclotron facility that was funded by the Atomic Energy Commission and
by the state of Michigan. Professor Parkinson led the new cyclotron project in the
construction, test, and research phases. His own experiments concentrated on nucleon
transfer reactions, elastic scattering, multi-particle transfers, and heavy ion reactions.
He also continued to refine and improve the new cyclotron and its energy analyzing
system.
In the last decade, Professor Parkinson turned to his interests in biophysics. His
most recent experiments have been on the response of mammalian cells to
non-ionizing electromagnetic fields. He has contributed to implant surgery by showing
that micropores created in plastic by nuclear fission fragments can increase the
acceptance of implants by a host tissue. Professor Parkinson's work in biophysics
continues.
Professor Parkinson guided many graduate students in their research; he taught
electronics to undergraduate physics majors in a course that became famous. His
many recognitions include fellowship in the American Physical Society and a term as
president of the Michigan Sigma Xi. He has been a member of the Atomic Energy
Commission and the Physics Advisory Panel of the National Science Foundation,


-268 -



May Meeting, 1988


chairman of the Bonner Prize Committee, and a consultant for the Oak Ridge and Los
Alamos National Laboratories. Professor Parkinson's contributions to the University
extended well beyond the department.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming William
C. Parkinson Professor Emeritus of Physics.
Wadi S. Rumman, Professor of Civil Engineering, will retire from active faculty
status as of May 31, 1988, following a career devoted to teaching, research,
publication, and service to The University of Michigan and the engineering profession.
Professor Rumman received his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in civil
engineering from The University of Michigan in 1949, 1953, and 1959, respectively.
He was appointed instructor in civil engineering in 1952; he was promoted to assistant
professor in 1959, associate professor in 1964, and professor in 1975. Professor
Rumman has also served as the principal graduate advisor in structural engineering
since 1968.
The research efforts of Professor Rumman focused on reinforced concrete
chimneys. He has been a leader in advancing the engineering practice in this area
through national society committees and has been instrumental in revising and
updating the industry standards. His recognition as an authority in chimney design is
reflected in the fact that he has served as consultant for most of the tall chimney
construction in the midwest in recent years.
Professor Rumman's contributions to teaching at both the undergraduate and
graduate levels and his contributions in the fie d of structural engineering are
well-recognized. His abilities as a superb teacher of structural analysis and design
have earned the respect and admiration of his students and peers throughout the
world.
The Regents now salute this distinguished engineering educator, researcher, and
practitioner for his contributions and dedicated service by naming Wadi S. Rumman
Professor Emeritus of Civil Engineering.
Charles B. Sharpe, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
will retire from active faculty status as of May 31, 1988, after thirty-two years of
service.
Professor Sharpe received his B.S. degree from Northwestern University in
1946, his B.S.E.E. degree from The University of Michigan in 1947, his S.M. degree
from Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1949, and his Ph.D. degree from The
University of Michigan in 1953. From 1952 to 1955, he served in the guided missile
branch of the United States Navy's Bureau of Ordinance and in the Office of Naval
Research. In 1955, he joined The University of Michigan faculty as an assistant
professor of electrical and computer engineering; he was promoted to associate
professor in 1958 and professor in 1962.
Over the years, Professor Sharpe has shown a remarkable combination of strong
intellectual and personal qualities. He has a substantial breadth of scientific
competence, resulting partly from his participation in the research programs that he
has developed. His teaching abilities are evidenced by the high quality of the many
courses he developed over the years in the areas of circuit and transmission lines. In
fact, he has taught almost every course offered by the department in those areas, in
addition to having authored a number of publications and research reports. He has
served on the college scholastic standing committee and the department curriculum
committee, and also served as chairman of the college curriculum committee.
Professor Sharpe served the department for many years as an undergraduate
program advisor, handling advanced credit adjustment and freshman counseling. In
addition, he has held membership in the Institute of Electrical and Electronics


-269 -



May Meeting, 1988


Engineers (IEEE), Sigma Xi, Tau Beta Pi, Eta Kappa Nu, Phi Kappa Phi, and Phi Nu
Epsilon. Professor Sharpe's charming personal qualities are readily displayed,
whether he is engaged in teaching, scientific discussion, professional decision-making,
or detailed management operations.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator by naming Charles B.
Sharpe Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science.
Erich E. Steiner, Professor of Botany in the Department of Biology, will retire
from active faculty status as of May 31, 1988, after thirty-eight years of service.
After receiving his B.S. degree in botany from The University of Michigan in
1940, Professor Steiner went to the Blandy Experimental Farm on a research
fellowship from the University of Virginia. From 1942 to 1946, he served in the
United States Army as an educational officer, where he planned and administered
educational and vocational programs at Ashbury General Hospital. Professor Steiner
then enrolled at Indiana University, earning his Ph.D. degree in botany in 1950. He
joined the faculty of The University of Michigan as an intructor in botany in 1950; he
was promoted to assistant professor in 1953, associate professor in 1957 and professor
in 1961.
While developing his program at both the old University Botanical Garden and
in the department, Professor Steiner established his research on the balanced lethal
genes of Oenothera. His research was extended to include studies of genecology,
through which we now understand many of the mechanisms underlying the evolution
and distribution of Oenothera. At the same time, Professor Steiner developed a course
in plant genetics and was an important participant in the popular undergraduate
course in botany into whose laboratory he later introduced an innovative
"audio-tutorial" system. He is the co-author of a laboratory manual in botany that was
widely adopted, and published a manual for the audio-tutorial course.
Professor Steiner has received a significant measure of external recognition. In
1960, he was awarded the National Science Foundation Senior Postdoctoral
Fellowship. He has been a guest professor at the University of Cologne and the
University of Duesseldorf, and a visiting professor at the University of
California-Davis. He also served as chairman of the teaching section of the Botanical
Society of America, a member of the editorial board of the Plant Science Bulletin, and
a member of the board of directors of the Michigan Botanical Club and the American
Association of Botanical Gardens and Arboreta.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his many
contributions to the Department of Biology by naming Erich E. Steiner Professor
Emeritus of Botany.
Lawrence H. Van Vlack, Professor of Materials Engineering in the Department
of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, will retire from active faculty status as of
May 31, 1988, after a distinguished career as a teacher, researcher, engineer, and
consultant to industry and government.
A native of Iowa, Professor Van Vlack received his B.S. degree at Iowa State
College in 1942 and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Chicago in 1950. From
1942 to 1953, he was employed by the United States Steel Corporation, first as a
ceramist, petrographer, and metallurgical supervisor in Chicago during the period
1942 to 1952, and then as a process metallurgist in Pittsburgh from 1952 to 1953. In
1953, he joined the faculty of The University of Michigan as associate professor of
materials engineering; he was promoted to professor in 1958, the position from which
he is now retiring. In 1967 he was appointed chairman of the Department of Chemical
and Metallurgical Engineering, and in 1970, he organized the new Department of
Materials and Metallurgical Engineering. He continued as its chairman until 1972.


-270 -



May Meeting, 1988


Professor Van Vlack is a Fellow of the American Ceramic Society, the
American Society for Metals, and the American Association for the Advancement of
Science. He is a member of other technical organizations including the American
Institute of Metallurgical Engineers, the American Society of Engineering Education,
and the New York Academy of Sciences. The American Society for Metals presented
him with the 1984 Gold Medal Award, and in 1985, the A.B. White Distinguished
Teaching Award with the citation, "for introducing more than a million students
throughout the free world to engineering materials, and for substantial research
contributions to inclusions and metal-refractory interactions."
Included in the nearly two hundred technical publications and eleven books of
Professor Van Vlack are some of te most widely used undergraduate texts in the field
of materials science and engineering. His undergraduate texts have been adopted by
more than three hundred United States' colleges and universities, and published in
more than twenty-five foreign editions.
Professor Van Vlack is a Registered Professional Engineer and has served as a
consultant to a variety of industrial and government organizations. Visiting academic
appointments have included the University of Califorma (Berkeley), the University of
Florida, the University of Melbourne, Monash University (Victoria), the Indian
Institute of Technology (Kanpur), and Zhejiang University (Hangzhou).
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by
naming Lawrence H. Van Vlack Professor Emeritus of Materials Engineering.
Sidney Warschausky, Professor of English Language and Literature at The
University of Michigan-Dearborn, has retired from active faculty status as of April 30,
1988, following 33 years of service.
A native of New York City, Professor Warschausky received his B.A. degree
with honors in English from Columbia College in 1943. After service in the U.S. Army
Air Force from 1943 to 1946, he returned to Columbia where he received his M.A.
degree in 1949 and his Ph.D. degree in 1957. He joined the faculty of The University
of Michigan in 1955 as an instructor in English on the Ann Arbor Campus. In 1959 he
was appointed assistant professor of English at The University of Michigan-Dearborn;
he was promoted to associate professor in 1963, and professor in 1967.
A specialist in modern British and American literature, Professor Warschausky
is the author of articles on William Butler Yeats and D.H. Lawrence. Throughout his
career, he has also written and published poetry in various journals. His poetry
elegantly carries on the traditions of high modernism, displaying its author's keen eye
for natural detail and a shrewd grasp of the psychological tensions in everyday life.
At Columbia University, Professor Warschausky studied under such
distinguished scholars and critics as Lionel Trilling, Jacques Barzun, W.Y. Tindall, and
Moses Hadas. This teaching always distinguished and humane has reflected the
wide culture of his mentors and his own love for art and music as well as literature. As
a founding member of the Dearborn faculty, he developed and taught courses in
virtually every field of English literature and creative literature, but he is perhaps best
known for his courses in modern British and American literature and the Irish Literary
Renaissance.
In addition to his distinguished record as a teacher, Professor Warschausky has
made major contributions as an administrator. He has served no fewer than four
terms as chairman of the Humanities Department. Under his leadership, a major
grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities was awarded to the
department for interdisciplinary courses. He has also served the Dearborn campus in
such other important positions as chairman of the Dearborn faculty advisory
committee on campus affairs and director of the honors program. His administrative
service has been characterized by great energy and resourcefulness and unwavering


-271 -



May Meeting, 1988


dedication to the highest principles.
The Regents now salute this dedicated teacher and founding member of the
Dearborn campus faculty for his service to the University by naming Sidney
Warschausky Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature.
Zelma H. Weisfeld, Professor of Theatre and Drama, will retire from active
faculty status as of May 31, 1988.
A native of Philadelphia, Professor Weisfeld received her B.A. degree from
Temple University in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in 1953 and her M.F.A. degree in
costume design from Yale University School of Drama in 1956. After completing her
degree, Professor Weisfeld remained at Yale for two years as costumer in the School
of Drama. From 1958 to 1960, she was responsible for designing and executing
costumes for approximately thirty-five professional productions at the Pittsburgh
Playhouse.
In 1960, Professor Weisfeld joined the faculty of The University of Michigan as
an instructor; she was promoted to assistant professor in 1961, associate professor in
1967, and professor in 1973. During her twenty-eight year creative tenure at Michigan,
she designed the costumes for approximately 125 major theatre and opera
productions. A retrospective exhibition of these designs spanning her career at the
University was displayed by the Michigan League in January 1987. Her costumes for
Hamlet were honored in 1982 when the United States Institute of Theatre Technology
included them in its Second Biennial Scenography Exposition, followed by a two-year
display tour. She has held memberships and offices in a number of theatre-related
associations, most notably the American Educational Theatre Association (AETA), in
which she has been a frequent speaker at national conventions. In October 1985,
Professor Weisfeld served as Delegate Theatre Artist to the People's Republic of
China.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Zelma H. Weisfeld
Professor Emeritus of Theatre and Drama.
Charles M. Wylie, M.D., Professor of Public Health Administration, will retire
from active faculty status as of May 31, 1988.
Dr. Wylie received his M.B. and Ch.B. degrees from the University of Glasglow
in 1947, his M.P.H. and Dr.P.H. degrees from The Johns Hopkins University School of
Hygiene in 1952 and 1956, respectively, his M.D. degree from University of Glasglow
in 1957, and his D.T.M. & H. degree from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical
Medicine in 1958. Following residencies in internal medicine and geriatrics in
hospitals in Britain and the United States from 1947 to 1950, Dr. Wylie was health
director of the Virginia State Department of Health, a position he held from 1950 to
1953. From 1953 to 1955, he served as a research associate with the National
Commission on Chronic Illness in Baltimore. From 1958 to 1967, Dr. Wylie was an
associate professor of public health administration in the School of Hygiene and
Public Health at The Johns Hopkins University. He joined the faculty of The
University of Michigan as a professor of public health administration in 1968, a
position he has held until his retirement.
In 1972, Dr. Wylie was named a Fellow Faculty of Community Medicine
(F.F.C.M.) in the Royal College of Physicians, London. During two sabbaticals (1975
to 1976 and 1982) and several summers, he served as Locum Consultant in Geriatric
Medicine in various hospitals in England and Scotland. Dr. Wylie has recently
established a practice of internal medicine for mature adults in Washtenaw County.
In the School of Public Health, Dr. Wylie served as program director of health
gerontology for four years in the 1970s. More recently, he helped direct the school's
residency training program in preventive medicine. Throughout his tenure, he has


-272 -



May Meeting, 1988


been one of the school's principal resources in the teaching of public health
administration and in teaching and research related to health gerontology.
Dr. Wylie's extensive list of scholarly publications covers a variety of significant
issues in the field of health and gerontology and geriatric medicine, including the
restoration of function in impaired stroke patients and the epidemiology and
treatment of peptic ulcers, osteoporosis, and stroke in different countries. A member
of several national committees, Dr. Wylie has been named a Fellow in four
professional and voluntary health organizations. In recognition of his outstanding
contributions to the field of cardiovascular disease, the American Heart Association
has presented Dr. Wylie with the Association's Silver and Gold Medal awards.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Charles
M. Wylie Professor Emeritus of Public Health Administration.
Chia-Shun Yih, Stephen P. Timoshenko Distinguished University Professor of
Fluid Mechanics in the College of Engineering, will retire from active faculty status as
of May 31, 1988, after more than forty-four years devoted to teaching, research,
writing, lecturing, and consulting.
A native of China, Professor Yih received his B.S. degree in civil engineering
from the National Central University in Chungking in 1942, and his M.S. and Ph.D.
degrees in mechanics and hydraulics at the State University of Iowa in 1947 and 1948,
respectively. In the years immediately following his graduate studies, Professor Yih
taught and engaged in research at several North American universities and at the
Umversite de Nancy in France. In 1956, he joined The University of Michigan faculty
as an associate professor in the Department of Engineering Mechanics; he was
promoted to professor in 1958. In 1968, the Regents named Professor Yih the
Stephen P. Timoshenko Distinguished University Professor of Fluid Mechanics.
During his career, Professor Yih has authored more than one hundred scientific
papers and three books that are considered standard references in fluid mechanics.
He has also served on several editorial boards and was the editor of twelve of the
annual Advances in Applied Mechanics.
Among the many honors Professor Yih has received are the 1958 National
Science Foundation Senior Postdoctoral Fellowship, the 1964 Guggenheim
Fellowship, the 1968 Achievement Award from the Chinese Institute of Engineers of
New York the 1973 Achievement Award from the Chinese Engineers and Scientists
Association of Southern California, the 1974 Henry Russel Lecturer Award from The
University of Michigan, the 1977 Alexander von Humboldt Senior Scientist Award, the
1981 Theodore von Karman Medal from the American Society of Civil Engineers, the
1984 Stephen S. Attwood Award from The University of Michigan's College of
Engineenring, and the 1985 Fluid Dynamics Prize from the American Physical Society.
This eminent researcher and teacher has served on many University and College
of Engineering boards and committees, and his record of service to both his profession
and to The University of Michigan has been outstanding. During his notable career,
Professor Yih has established a world-wide reputation as a man of wisdom and
excellence in all of his endeavors.
The Regents now salute this distinguished engineering educator for his
dedicated service by naming Chia-Shun Yih Stephen P. Timoshenko Distinguished
University Professor Emeritus of Fluid Mechanics.
Memorials
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.


-273 -



May Meeting, 1988


Degrees
On the recommendations of the proper faculty in each case, the Regents
approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
School of Business Administration
Bachelor of Business Administration, May 2, 1986
add:   Clarence John Beshke
College of Literature Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, December 22,1987
add:   Kathleen Marie Dillon
Michael Lawrence Levine
Jude Thaddeus Schork
Jonathon Phillip White
Bachelor Science, December 22, 1987
add:   Susan Ramirez
Bachelor in General Studies, December 22, 1987
add:   Richard Alan Watson
Bachelor of Arts, May 1 1987
add:   Glen Mueller
Bachelor of Arts, August 21, 1987
add:   Anne Michele Joseph
Bachelor of Arts, December 23, 1977
add:   John Webster Morrison
University of Michigan-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences
Bachelor of Science December 27 1987
add:   Kimberly Ann Hoffman
College of Health Sciences
Bachelor of Science December 21, 1987
add:   Cheryl Jean Hopkins
Expenditure of the Income of the Julian A. Wolfson and the Marguerite Wolfson
Endowment Funds for the fiscal year 1988-89
Regent Smith moved, Regent Power seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved the uses of the income of the Wolfson Endowment Funds as recommended
by the Law faculty.
Gerald R Ford Fellowships
Vice President Brinkerhoff informed the Regents of the establishment of the
President Gerald R. Ford Fellowships in American Government and Public Policy.
These have been created from a $1 million dollar endowment that had been
announced at the conclusion of the Campaign for Michigan in December 1987 in
honor of former President Ford.


-274 -



May Meeting, 1988


Student Fee Increase to Support Debt Service Payments for the Michigan League and
North Campus Commons
Regent Nielsen moved, and Regent Power seconded a motion to consider an
increase in student fees to support the debt service payments for the Michigan League
renovation and North Campus Commons additions. Regent Nielsen expressed
concern about increasing student fees to support the Michigan League, because the
League is used more by faculty and community residents than by students. Vice
President Brinkerhoff noted that the University has traditionally used student fees to
sustain all types of activities, such as this one, for which use of the state appropriation
is not allowed. Following further discussion a vote was taken, and the motion carried,
with Regent Nielsen voting no.
Asset Diversification of the University Endowment Fund
Regent Roach moved, and Regent Brown seconded a motion to amplify the
asset allocation policy for the University Endowment Fund such that the equity
portion include a 10 percent target for real estate investments; and to commit $10
million from the University Endowment Fund to Endowment Realty Investors, Inc.
The motion was approved, with Regent Smith voting no. Following the vote, the
Regents requested farther information about the background and implications of this
decision. Vice President Brinkerhoff stated that Investment Officer Norman Herbert
would be available the next day to provide complete details.
University Investment Pool Investment Guidelines
The existing University Investment Pool guidelines for fixed-income investments
restrict the purchase of a bank obligation to banks that are among "the 25 largest
banks in the country based on deposits" or to "an authorized depository for University
funds, The Chicago-Tokyo Bank or First Independence National Bank." The Regents
unanimously approved a motion by Regent Roach, secondd y Regent Power, to
amend these restrictions on the purchase of bank obligations. Specifically, the
University's investment guidelines will be amended as follows:
"The following types of fixed income investments are eligible for purchase by
the University Investment Pool:
Obligations of: (A) commercial banks, bank holding companies and thrift
institutions organized under the laws of the United States of America or any
state thereof, including their foreign branches; (B) foreign banks, payable in
U.S. dollars; (C) corporations backed by an authorized bank's letter of credit.
The bank, holding company or thrift institution shall be rated (as applicable)
equal or better than
B/C (domestic institutions) or II/III (foreign institutions) by Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods, or
P3 or A by Moody's, or
A3 or A by Standard & Poor's, or
a comparable rating from a comparable rating service, or shall be an
authorized depository for University funds, The Chicago-Tokyo Bank, or
First Independence National Bank."


-275 -



May Meeting, 1988


Krause Street Parking Lot
The Regents next considered a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by
Regent Brown, to authorize execution of a proposed Parking Agreement that
establishes guidelines for C-3 Partners to purchase and/or lease spaces in the
Krause Street Parking Lot. Considerable discussion followed on the merits of this
proposal, specifically whether it unduly restricts the University's options in
marketing the lot in the future, and whether the University will be receiving a fair
price for the parking spaces. It was decided to table this item until the following
day.
Window Replacement Cooley Building and Randall Laboratory
The Regents were informed that sufficient savings remain from State of
Michigan special maintenance allocations to the University for the years 1985-86
and 1986-87 to be able to fund window replacements in the Randall Laboratory
and the Cooley Building.
Central Power Plant-Boiler Breeching, C.C. Little Building-Oceanography Lab
Complex and Stable Isotope Lab
The Regents approved installation of a new breeching interconnection
between boilers in the central power plant. They also approved renovation of
space in the C.C. Little Building to provide wet laboratory research facilities and a
specialized isotope laboratory for Geology Department faculty.
Faculty Research Presentation
The Regents next heard a presentation by Linda Fisher, Associate Professor
of Natural Sciences at the UM-Dearborn, about her research on the mechanisms
involved in persistent viral infections.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics
indicated: Christopher Dahl, Chair of the Humanities Department at the
UM-Dearborn, on Professor Sidney Warchausky; Elizabeth Jones, Aaron Williams,
John Coleman, and Darren Schumacher, students in the College of Engineering, on
funding for MSA; Gretchen Walter and Zachary Kittrie, members of MSA, on
student government; and Charles Tackett, Michigan citizen, on a proposal for a
Vietnam Veterans Memorial Holiday.
In response to the comments of the students from the College of Engineering
about MSA funding, there was some discussion of several possible scenarios for a
change in the method of funding for MSA and of how involved the Regents should
be in directing the allocations of funds provided to MSA. The Regents requested
further information from Vice President Johnson as to exactly how the current
student fee is allocated.
The meeting was then recessed until the following day.


-276 -



May Meeting, 1988


Friday, May 20, 1988
The Regents met at 9:00 AM in the Regents' Room. Present were the
President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, Varner, and
Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost Duderstadt, and Vice
Presidents Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson were also present, as was
Chancellor Jenkins. Chancellor Jones was absent; Provost Wong attended the
meeting in his place.
Status of the Budget Report
Provost Duderstadt outlined the current status of the University's budget
request that is before the state legislature. He explained the budget preparation
and approval process and gave details of the University's FY 88-89 incremental
budget request of $50.2 million (11%). At this point, the University is expecting to
receive only a 2% increase over last year's appropriation. Although cost reduction
measures (including a reduced salary program, cancellation or deferral of all but
absolutely essential expenditures and launching of administrative efficiency efforts)
and internal reallocations of funds will be undertaken in an effort to compensate
for the reduced funding, the bulk of the University's increased revenue needs will
have to come from increases in tuition and fees. He noted that a 1% tuition
increase, after allowing for a corresponding increase in student aid, results in a
revenue increase of $1.5 million.
Provost Duderstadt reiterated his previously stated observation that recent
state and federal government actions have shifted the costs of public higher
education from general tax revenue to the students and their parents in the form of
tuition and fees. He then displayed graphs illustrating that since FY 1979, all state
supported institutions in Michigan have received nearly the same share of
appropriations every year. Thus the strategy of these institutions should not be to
increase the share of an individual institution at the expense of the others, but
rather to work together to increase the total appropriation for higher education.
The state   ration per student for the University of California system, he
noted, is almost twice that at The University of Michigan.
On the positive side, Provost Duderstadt observed that in general, college
expenses have risen far more slowly than many other costs, and that while personal
income has risen 252% over the past fifteen years, tuition has increased only by
232%. As a percentage of Michigan per capita income, annual tuition and room
and board costs have remained relatively constant since 1960, and financial aid
expenditures have increased more rapidly than tuition. This year, he concluded,
tuition and fees at most Michigan colleges and universities are expected to rise
between 10-15%. Even at these rates, however, the tuition cost to a Michigan
resident at the ten top-ranked universities in the nation is far lower at The
University of Michigan ($2,883) than at any of the others (which range from $5,766
at UC-Berkeley to a minimum of $10,200 at all of the others).
Six-Month Report on University Audits
Carl Smith, Director of University Audits, presented highlights of and
responded to questions regarding the six month report on University Audit
Department activities for the period of October 1, 1987 through March 31, 1988.


-277 -



May Meeting, 1988


Mr. Smith stated that he was satisfied with management's concurrence with the
recommendations of the audit.
Asset Diversification of the University Endowment Fund
University Investment Officer Norman Herbert was present to give further
details of and respond to questions about the actions that had been taken the
previous day to amplify the asset allocation policy for the University Endowment
Fund such that the equity portion include a 10% target for real estate investments,
and that $10 million from the University Endowment Fund be committed to
Endowment Realty Investors, Inc.
Regent Smith said that she felt the University ought to remain in a cash
position because of the current uncertain market conditions. Mr. Herbert
explained that the Wellesley Group had recommended further investments in real
estate because of the volatility of stocks and bonds, and that the University has had
good results with its current real estate investments. He said that investing in
Endowment Realty Investors, Inc. will provide an opportunity to diversify the real
estate portfolio away from the existing managers. Concurring with Regent Smith,
Regent Baker advised caution about investing $10 million all at once in the market
at the present time. Mr. Herbert said that the plan is to spread the investment over
a two-three year period. He emphasized that the managers will only commit
money in instances where there is value to be gained; they have a performance
incentive to wait for the most appropriate time to invest.
Regent Varner commented that in her opinion, it is difficult to lose when
investing in real estate. Regent Smith stated that based on past experience, she had
concerns about advice given by the Wellesley group. She was also concerned
because there is no liquidity in this type of investment. The commitment of funds is
for at least 12 years, and because there is no guarantee, the University may not be
able to get out even then. She felt that before this change in asset allocation is
made and the $10 million committed, the University's new Chief Financial Officer
should be given an opportunity to evaluate and review our overall investment
strategy. Regent Smith added that the advantages to be gained from the
depreciation aspect of real estate investments are of no value to the University.
Regent Nielsen said, however, that the University is interested in cash flow, not
depreciation.
Regent Smith moved to table and/or reconsider the item. However, since
she had voted no on the motion that had passed the previous day, according to
parliamentary procedure she could not make this motion. Therefore, Regent
Power, having voted in favor of the earlier motion, moved to reconsider the
previous day's action approving the change in asset allocation policy and the
investment of $10 million in Endowment Realty Investors, Inc. Regent Smith
seconded the motion. Following further discussion, the vote was called, and the
motion failed, with Regents Brown, Baker, Roach, Nielsen, Power, Varner, and
Waters voting no and Regent Smith voting yes.
Krause Street Parking Lot
The Regents next moved to consider a request to authorize the execution of
a proposed Parking Agreement establishing guidelines for C-3 Partners to purchase
and/or lease spaces in the Krause Street Parking Lot. Because the Regents had a


-278 -



May Meeting, 1988


number of questions about the appraised value of the spaces and on other details of
the agreement, they decided to table consideration of the proposal until the June
meeting.
College of Pharmacy Laboratory Addition
This project involves construction of 1) an addition to the C.C. Little and
Pharmacy Buildings to house heavy duty wet laboratories, 2) an enclosure for the
open corner area between the two buildings, 3) a small addition within the
courtyard, and 4) a connecting bridge between the C.C. Little and the Physics and
Astronomy Buildings. These structures are in accord with the Central Campus
Master Plan. On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Baker, the
Regents voted unanimously to approve the project.
MCare, The University of Michigan Health Maintenance Organization
Vice President Brinkerhoff stated that the latest Ernst & Whinney year-end
audit of MCare HMO shows that it lost less than had been budgeted, and that
membership is also over budget. Therefore, M-Care is in better financial condition
than had been forecast. Regent Power moved, and Regent Waters seconded, a
motion to approving lending $1 million to M-Care by University of Michigan
Hospitals. In response to a question by Regent Smith, Vice President Brinkerhoff
said t the University hat the ss already loaned 3,779,000 to M-Care in addition to the
present request. The motion was approved unanimously.
Certificate of Need Approval: MRI Scanner;
Certificate of Need Approval: CT Scanner;
Amendment to Certificate of Need for Construction and Equipment of Additional
Treatment Rooms in Radiation Oncology
The Regents unanimously approved submission of a Certificate of Need
application for the purchase of a second clinical MRI unit and for renovation of
existing space and purchase and installation of a fifth CT scanner, both to be
housed in the Department of Radiology. They also unanimously approved
requesting an amendment of the Radiation Oncology Expansion Certificate of
Need in the amount of $1,280,000, and approved the project, obtaining of
construction bids, and awarding a construction contract to the lowest qualified
bidder, providing that the bid amount is less than the construction budget outlined
in the Regents Communication and that the Certificate of Need amendment is
approved.
Loss of Tax Exemption on Tuition Waivers for Graduate Student Assistants
Provost Duderstadt informed the Regents of actions that the University is
taking to counteract the effects of the expiration of the Employees' Educational
Assistance provision of the Tax Code (Section 127), which has resulted in tuition
waivers being consider taxable and subject to withholding. He said that the
administration is working with the Graduate Employee's Organization (GEO) and
is considering procedural changes that might be taken that would regain tax
exemption even under the present law.


-279 -



May Meeting, 1988


Institutional Membership in the Association for Academic Minority Physicians
The Regents approved payment of dues in the amount of $1,000 for an
institutional membership in the Association of Academic Minority Physicians.
Membership in the National Council of Educational Opportunity Associations
The Regents approved membership in and payment of annual membership
dues in the amount of $800 to the National Council of Educational Opportunity
Associations.
Joint Study Agreement between the University and IBM
President Fleming informed the Regents of a joint study agreement that has
been executed with IBM for the purpose of research and development in the areas
of information sharing and communication. Vice Provost Van Houweling said that
the agreement will move the University's computing environment from its
predominantly time-sharing approach to one that will be based on the personal
computer, while preserving access to information across the whole institution. The
system will eventually enable any user of a personal computer on the campus
network to share files with any other user on that network, even if the second user
is on a different kind of computer. Regent Baker and President Fleming
congratulated and thanked Vice Provost Van Houweling for this significant
accomplishment. Regent Nielsen moved to officially compliment Provost Van
Houweling by unanimous consent.
University of Michigan Statement Regarding Visit of GAO Investigating Team
The Regents received information from Vice President Wilson about a visit
made to the University by an investigating team from the General Accounting
Office. The investigating team is probing procedures used by the Department of
Defense to monitoring the safety of its contractors' laboratories.
Recent Research Items of Special Note - Spring, 1988
Vice President Wilson informed the Regents of several noteworthy
individual achievements, as well as major gifts and awards that have been received
by various campus units.
Freedom of Speech on Campus
Comments by Regent Baker Regarding the Events of April 29, 1988
On Friday afternoon, April 29, in the Michigan League library, the
Political Science Department of the University of Michigan convened a
symposium to hear Drs. Marshall Shulman and Jeane J. Kirkpatrick speak
concerning the future of American-Soviet relations. Both scholars had
recently returned from the Soviet Union and both had extensive meetings
with General Secretary Gorbachev. The faculty and students of the Political
Science Department were invited to attend and participate in the symposium.
Poor weather on the east coast caused both Kirkpatrick and Shulman to
be late in arriving. Prior to the speakers' arrival, members of the


-280 -



May Meeting, 1988


Latin-American Solidarity Committee (LASC) interrupted the meeting and a
prolonged and strident discussion began between leaders of the Political
Science Department and the LASC. The LASC would not remove itself
from the meeting, changed protests and indicated its intention to continue
disruption of the proceedings.
Later, upon Dr. Kirkpatrick's arrival, she observed the disruptive tactics
of LASC within the symposium room. Dr. Kirkpatrick asked to be taken
away from the symposium. LASC had achieved its goal. They had
prohibited Dr. Kirkpatrick from speaking and disrupted the symposium.
This assault on academic freedom strikes at the heart of the University.
The faculty's right of peaceful assembly for scholarly purposes was denied as
were the rights of Drs. Shulman and Kirkpatrick.
Later Friday night, after the disruption of the symposium, persons
unknown proceeded to the Michigan stadium, where they spray-painted
vulgar, four-letter words describing Dr. Kirkpatrick on the backdrop of the
platform which had been set up in the stadium for the official platform
guests. Fortunately, security forces discovered and painted out the
obscenities in a timely manner.
On Graduation Day, persons unknown passed out an unsigned, vitriolic
flyer critical of Dr. Kirkpatrick. Further, members of the LASC attempted to
disrupt the graduation ceremony. Over the past few years there have been
similar attacks on the University, its administration, its regents and campus
visitors, including President Ford, Vice President Bush, Attorney General
Meese, Alexander Haig, and others. Certainly attacks on regents,
administrators, and visitors are unacceptable conduct. However, in some
ways the direct assault on academic freedom is more serious because it
challenges the University and its purpose. Mr. President, the time has come
to regain control of this campus so that the University might once again
function as a place of autonomy, civility and scholarly pursuit.
I would like to request that the President report to the Regents at their
July 1988 meeting a comprehensive plan which would establish procedures to
assure the peaceful functioning of university scholarly and other activities.
The report should be inclusive. It should contain appropriate
recommendations for maintaining order and academic freedom on the
campus, including, if necessary, the arrest and the prosecution of disruptive
individuals whose actions exceed the normal bounds of acceptable university
behavior. Close attention should be given to the parties' various
constitutional rights, including those rights of free speech and assembly.
President Fleming's Comments on Freedom of Speech. President Fleming
stated that the administration would provide the report requested by Regent Baker.
He then referred to an editorial that appeared in the Yale University student
newspaper recently regarding free speech. He noted that The University of Michigan
has protected almost everybody who has been invited to come here and speak. If that
person is conservative, however, it is a well-known fact in this country that on
university campuses there are groups that disrupt such speakers. "You cannot, in my
view," he continued, "take a position that you support free speech and support the right
of people to be heard, which we have taken and most universities take, and then have


-281 -



May Meeting, 1988


one group of people to whom you will not extend that privilege and which you will
permit groups to disrupt."
President Fleming then read the following editorial from the Yale University
student newspaper:
Today Yale will learn just how tolerant its undergraduates are, will find
out just how dear its students hold the principles of free speech and
expression. Today, A.L. Manley, South Africa's ambassador to the United
Nations, is coming to campus.
The ambassador has the unenviable task of representing a nation whose
racist policies are reviled throughout the world. As much as individuals
debate the ethical and practical implication of divestment, most on every side
of the issue have found one basis of agreement that the system of apartheid
is inherently evil.
Given his government's abhorrent practices, it is not surprising that
Manley's visit has aroused great outrage that is expected to lead to a number
of protests today. There are even those who argue that he should not be
allowed to speak here. But they are wrong.
As repulsive as Manley's views may be, he, like any other invited
speaker, has the right to air them and we to hear them. Students and area
residents will express their displeasure at Manley's presence, but must
remember in their anger that to deny the ambassador his right to be heard,
either by shouting him down or some other means, is no more just an act
than the prejudiced behavior of his government.
President Fleming commented that even if a speaker's views are totally
repugnant to us, we have always said that the University is a place where we value the
right of people to say things. A key reason for that is that we believe educated people
have to be in a position to evaluate what is said. If we really believe that, he said, we
cannot take the position that that applies only to some people.
Regent Baker said that there is a difference between speaking and having a
scholarly symposium interrupted, the latter of which goes right to the heart of the
University. Denial of the right to speak at a scholarly symposium or as an invited
speaker are both an anathema to the concept of a university. Regent Roach noted
that during President Fleming's first term, the University adopted free speech
guidelines, which are currently under review by the Civil Liberties Board. Until those
guidelines are changed, he said, those are our guidelines and they ought to be
implemented. President Fleming said the current guidelines will be addressed in the
report to the Regents.
Martin Luther King Birthday Observance
President Fleming suggested to the Regents that Martin Luther King's birthday
be observed at the University by suspending classes on that day. The classes would be
made up by adding a day at the end of the semester. Martin Luther King day would
be used as an educational day, a diversity day, to recognize and celebrate the fact that
there are many different minority groups on campus. If the concept is approved, the
idea would be discussed with student and faculty groups. He proposed that the


-282 -



May Meeting, 1988


Regents make a contingent approval of a change in the University calendar to
celebrate this kind of a "diversity day".
Regent Nielsen moved to permit the President to proceed further with the idea
and concept of the proposal. Regent Power seconded the motion. President Fleming
emphasized that the day would be celebrated on his birthday, and would be devoted to
a celebration of the diversity present on The University of Michigan campus. It would
not be a holiday; it would be devoted to educational programs. There would be no
mandatory classes.
Regent Power stated that he thought it was a sensible approach. Regent Smith
commented that if students are given a day off, the staff and faculty would also want to
have time off. It would set a precedent, and would eventually end up as a holiday for
employees, which would cost the University a lot of money. Therefore, she would not
support the idea.
It was noted that the day would not occur on Dr. King's actual birthday, but
would occur on the Monday following his birthday, which in 1989 is January 16.
Following further discussion, Regent Smith asked the administration to determine
what the cost to the University would be if employees were given another day off.
Regent Brown called the question. Regent Nielsen's motion passed, with Regents
Baker and Smith abstaining.
Motions to Hold Executive Session
Regent Roach moved that pursuant to section 8(f) of the Michigan Open
Meetings Act, as amended by 1984 Public Act 202, the Board of Regents meet in
closed session on May 23, 1988 at 8:00 P.M. in the President's Conference Room and
on May 24, 1988 at 4:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room, for the purpose of considering
material exempt from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of
Information Act. Such exempt material consists of the review of the contents of
applications for employment where confidentiality has been requested by the
candidates (section 8f).
Regent Power seconded the motion. It was unanimously approved.
Regent Roach then moved that pursuant to sections 8(e) and 8(h) of the
Michigan Open Meetings Act, as amended by 1984 Public Act 202, the Board of
Regents recess and meet in closed session in the Regents' Room, Fleming
Administration Building, for the purpose of considering material exempt from
discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act. Such exempt
material consists of consultation with the Board's attorney regarding trial or
settlement strategy in connection with specific pending litigation (section 8e) and
consideration of a written opinion from the Board's legal counsel (section 8h). It is
likely that the Board will reconvene again prior to formal adjournment.
Regent Nielsen pointed out that the litigation in question, for which the
University has paid legal counsel $20,000, does not fall within this exemption from the
Open Meetings Act, because we are not a party to it. Regent Nielsen said that he
would like to hold over that particular issue, which involves the Rosenboom case, to
next month's meeting, because he would not be available that afternoon to discuss it.
Regent Power seconded the motion. Regent Roach then suggested that in order to
comply with parliamentary procedure, he would withdraw his motion so that Regent


-283 -



May Meeting, 1988


Nielsen could move to table his motion. Regent Power then withdrew his second.
Regent Nielsen moved to table the Rosenboom matter to next month's meeting.
Regent Roach seconded the motion, and it passed unanimously. Regent Roach then
re-moved the same motion stated above, and Regent Power supported it. The motion
passed unanimously.
The meeting was recessed.
The meeting reconvened at 3:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were
Regents Baker, Brown, Power, Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters. Also present were
President Fleming and Vice President and Secretary Kennedy. Regent Nielsen was
absent. Regent Brown moved that Regents adopt the following resolution:
Presidential Nominating Committee
Resolved, that Regents Varner, Roach, Baker, and Brown are hereby
appointed as a nominating committee to consider advice from the Presidential
Selection Committee and the faculty advisory committee, the student advisory
committee, the alumni advisory committee, and the interview committees
concerning the candidates for the office of President of the University. The
nominating committee shall decide which candidate or candidates to place in
nomination for action by the Board of Regents as soon as possible thereafter.
Regent Waters seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent Roach then moved to cancel the closed meeting that the Regents had
earlier scheduled for 8:00 P.M. on May 23. Regent Baker seconded the motion and it
was approved unanimously.
Regent Brown moved that the meeting be adjourned. That was seconded by
Regent Baker and adopted.
Transportation, accommodation, and other costs for the month of April 1988
were $2,296.05. The next Regents' Meeting will be held on June 16 and 17, 1988.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secretar


-284 -



JUNE MEETING, 1988


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, June 16, 1988
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith, Varner, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost
Duderstadt, and Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson were
also present, as was Chancellor Jenkins. Chancellor Jones arrived at 1:40 P.M.
Minutes
President Fleming called the meeting to order. Regent Nielsen moved, and
Regent Power seconded, approval of the minutes of the May 1988 meeting. They
were approved unanimously, pending one minor correction.
FY 1988-89 UM Hospitals Operating Budget
University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Director John Forsyth began his
presentation by stating he was recommending to the Regents that they approve a 6.1%
average increase in the Hospitals room rate, effective July 1, 1988. In requesting this
rate increase, the Hospitals are basing projections on a number of assumptions: 1)
that there will continue to be a favorable, upward trend in admissions and clinic visits,
which combined with a decrease in the length of stay will maintain the current 88%
occupancy level; 2) inpatient and outpatient revenues will continue to increase, and
that increase is the reason that the room rate increase will be held to 6.1% (which is
slightly lower than the medical services price index); 3) the current patient payer mix
will remain relatively stable, and the major third party payers will not impose any
further constraints on payments for services from current predictions; 4) the ongoing
transformation process will result in an $11.8 million expense reduction for FY1988-89
(if the transformation had not been undertaken, the room rate alone would have to
have been increased by 30%, and the overall rate increase would have been 11%); 5)
the operating margin objective is to break-even on operations, but the FY1988-89
operating margin will be a $2.9 million loss after special adjustments.
In response to a comment by Regent Roach, that the increases in staff appear to
be leading the increases in total inpatient days, Mr. Forsyth said that this is due both
to the dramatic increase in acuity levels of inpatients and the fact that more
procedures are being done on an outpatient basis. This leaves the beds still filled, but
filled with much more seriously ill patients. Additionally, the number of intensive care
beds has been increased from 56 in the old hospital to 90 in the new hospital, and this
type of bed requires a much higher staffing level than non-ICU beds.
Regent Power noted that while one of the hospital's missions is to provide
tertiary care, which entails increased costs over primary care, at the same time,
revenues per case are declining due to third-party-payer reimbursement policies. He
asked Mr. Forsyth what the Hospitals' strategic approach will be after all costs have
been cut as much as is possible and the institution has reached maximum efficiency.
Mr. Forsyth responded that efforts will include trying to influence legislators to


-285 -



June Meeting, 1988


increase reimbursement rates, looking at alternative revenue streams (other
healthcare-related activities) that can bring in additional revenue to help subsidize
inpatient activities, and looking at acquiring lower-cost beds to disimpact this site and
save money in delivering primary care. In addition, the hospitals have set aside
reserves to help deal with short-term adverse economic situations.
UM Hospitals Room Rates
Following further discussion, the Board voted unanimously to approve the
proposed FY 1988-89 UM Hospitals' Operating Budget, including a daily service rate
increase averaging 6.1%, effective July 1, 1988.
Retirement of Donald B. Canham
Regent Baker next read the following resolution:
It is with deep gratitude and admiration that the Regents of the University
now salute Donald B. Canham on the occasion of his retirement as the
University's Athletic Director.
For the past twenty years, Don Canham has managed what is generally
regarded as one of the most successful athletic programs in the nation. In doing
so he has combined a keen business sense with an equal measure of integrity in
continuing Michigan's historic tradition as "Champion of the West".
He first came to the University as a student in 1937 and was himself a
gifted athlete on the track team. He captured the NCAA high jump title in
1940. Following World War II, when he served in the Army Air Force, he
returned to the University to coach and earn his Master's Degree. In 1948 he
became head track coach and led his team to 12 Big Ten track championships
over the next nineteen years. In 1968 he succeeded Fritz Crisler as Athletic
Director.
His accomplishments since assuming that post are now legendary. During
his tenure, over 12 million spectators have filled Michigan stadium, including 79
consecutive home crowds of 100,000 or more; Michigan teams have won nearly
70 Big Ten titles; he presided over the construction of one of the most extensive
athletic physical plants on any college campus and operated the intercollegiate
athletic program on a self-supporting basis. In addition, women's intercollegiate
athletics have developed into a ten-sport program during this period.
The Regents commend this remarkable administrator and teacher for his
unparalleled accomplishments and his exemplary penchant for 'playing by the
rules." They extend their warm best wishes and deep appreciation in naming
Donald B. Canham Athletic Director Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of
Sports Management and Communication.
Naming of Swimming and Diving Facility
In further recognition of Don Canham's contributions to the University,
the Regents also hereby resolve that the University of Michigan Swimming and
Diving Facility be named the Donald B. Canham Natatorium.


-286 -



June Meeting, 1988


The motions were seconded by Regent Nielsen and adopted unanimously. Mr.
Canham, who was present at the meeting, responded, "That beats a gold watch, I'll tell
you that!" He said that he appreciated the support and the autonomy that the Regents
have given him, because "without the autonomy, we couldn't have done what we did."
President Fleming presented Mr. Canham with a framed copy of the retirement
memoir. Regent Smith then told of how a program that had been initiated by Mr.
Canham in the 1960s, the sale of football tickets for school children at $2.00 each, had
been of great benefit for her family; it was that program that had interested her
children m the University and resulted in all six of her children attending. "Academics
are important," Regent Smith said, "but athletics is just as important, and for my family
it was really the reason that they were all attracted to the University. I want to thank
you."
Vice President Brinkerhoff noted that the name of Matt Mann Pool would be
continued; the building that houses the pool is to be called the Donald B. Canham
Natatorium.
Michigan Student Assembly Budget Request
President Fleming gave the floor to Michael Phillips, President of the Michigan
Student Assembly. Mr. Phillips introduced Susan Overdorf, Executive Vice President,
Michael Wasserman, Summer Treasurer of MSA, and Esther Armstead,
Administrative Coordinator of MSA.
Ms. Overdorf outlined the structure of MSA, its focus, and its role in the
University community. MSA consists of 50 representatives from all schools and
colleges. Its two areas of focus are advocating for and educating students about issues
that affect them and providing such services to students as the Tenants Union, Student
Legal Services, the ADVICE course evaluation guide, health insurance, and
recognition and funding of student organizations. The role of MSA is to provide a
forum for students to discuss issues and solutions to problems.
Ms. Armstead next described her staff role as MSA administrative coordinator.
She serves as a mediator and a liaison to the administration, oversees day-to-day
management of the office, and provides resource referral when necessary.
Mr. Wasserman explained that MSA is run as a business, follows generally
accepted accounting principles, and is audited by an outside accounting firm. He
described the $10,000 financial computer system in the MSA budget request, which
will not only update the accounting system, but will give MSA electronic
communications capabilities. He emphasized that a lot of deliberations and thought
had gone into formulation of MSA's budget request.
Mr. Phillips gave statistics indicating the breadth of MSA's activities among its
student constituency, emphasizing that MSA represents students from throughout the
University. MSA's budget request is consistent with the agreement that had been
approved for 1987-88: a 5% increase on the current $6.25 per student per term base.
Regent Baker read portions from letters he had received from students that
were critical of MSA's use of student funds and from a recent issue of the Michigan
Review which was highly critical of MSA. Regent Baker asked if it was true that the
Tenants Union staff had worked nearly full time on the rent control ballot issue in the
Ann Arbor spring election. Larry Fox, director of the Housing Law Reform Project,


-287 -



June Meeting, 1988


said that his group had written the first draft of the rent control proposal for the group
called Citizens for Fair Rent. He further stated that the staff had worked on the
election effort nearly full time. Regent Baker noted that student funds (actually
University funds) intended for student purposes were then apparently spent for
political and election activity, even though many students disagreed with the rent
control effort. Regent Baker asked the MSA officers whether the Tenants Union bulk
mailing permit had been used by the non-student and non-University-affiliated groups
advocating passage of the rent control initiative. The students responded that many
student groups have traditionally been allowed to use the Tenants Union bulk mailing
permit, and the Housing Law Reform Project was one of those groups. Regent Baker
stated his opinion that such activities represent gross misuse of University facilities
and University employees' time, and in fact, may be in violation of election laws.
Regent Roach asked the students to explain the calculations that had been used
to arrive at its figures for a proposed 5% increase for the 1988-89 fiscal year.
According to Regent Roach, 5% of this year's base of $6.25 would amount to $.31.
The MSA officers explained that the difference was due to the fact that the money
that had been allocated for publication of ADVICE in the 1987-88 budget had not
been spent; Regent Roach said that his figures still did not concur with those arrived
at by MSA.
An exchange then followed between Mr. Phillips -and Regent Baker regarding
Mr. Phillips' characterization of the Michigan Review as an entertainment magazine
and about allegations that have been made in the Michigan Review that members of
the Michigan Student Assembly are of left-wing political persuasions. Regent Baker
also discussed criticisms of MSA that had been made by members of the Engineering
College student government at recent Public Comments sessions, and asked how the
MSA officers were responding to those allegations and to a resolution and a petition
the Engineering student government officers had presented to the Regents. The MSA
officers stated that they had not received those materials. Vice President Johnson
stated the items in question had been turned over to Vice President Kennedy, who
would forward them to the MSA officers for their review. Regent Baker stated that
the students opposing MSA had called for a complete restructuring of MSA with the
various schools and colleges having much greater independence from MSA with more
control over expenditure of student-generated funds.
Regent Power suggested that MSA review its policies and procedures for use of
the Tenants' Union's bulk mailing permit. He asked MSA to explain its actions of the
Winter 1988 semester that declared the University a racist institution and its alleged
plans to publicize these views by advertising in high school newspapers.
Mr. Phillips said that the Michigan Daily had misrepresented MSA's original
intentions in placing ads in high school newspapers. The goal had not been to accuse
the University of being a racist institution; rather it had been merely to publicize the
fact that MSA representatives would be coming to the school to talk to students. As a
result of the controversy that the proposed advertising campaign had created, MSA
has rescinded the entire resolution involving speaking at high schools. Asked by
Regent Power what MSA had intended to talk about at the high schools, Mr. Phillips
said that the intention had been to explain that even though the University had
received negative publicity in the press, we want to tell you why you should still
consider attending The University of Michigan. Mr. Wasserman said that MSA
planned to make use of the lessons it had learned from that experience.


-288 -



June Meeting, 1988


Regent Nielsen turned to the issue of MSA funding for the coming year. He
suggested that funding be authorized for such MSA organizations as Student Legal
Services, ADVICE, and the Tenants Union, but that funding for MSA itself be made
in the form of a positive checkoff. Regent Nielsen's impression is that MSA does not
represent the student body and that it has become very factionalized. That is why he
would like to have the funding put to a vote of the students.
The MSA officers responded that the majority of students support MSA, and
that MSA itself is a service. Mr. Wasserman said that student apathy should not be
confused with student dissatisfaction with MSA, and that, according to Mr.
Wasserman, a positive checkoff for MSA funding would invite apathy.
Following further discussion, President Fleming turned to the next item of
business, noting that the subject of MSA funding would come before the Board for
action at the next meeting.
Reports
Vice President Brinkerhoff submitted the regular monthly reports of
Investments, Plant Extension, and Litigation.
Litigation Report: Rosenboom Case. Regent Nielsen commented that $26,000
has been spent so far on the Rosenboom case, and that the final expenses will most
likely far exceed that figure. He questioned the wisdom of the University's hiring
out-of-town counsel to represent a student at no charge, when Student Legal Services
is available at no cost for these purposes. He said that a policy is needed to determine
which cases the University should defend and when Student Legal Services should be
used as opposed to outside counsel. He also said that the University should make
more use of Washtenaw County attorneys, especially for cases being heard in
Washtenaw County Circuit Court, and suggested seeking bids from Washtenaw
County firms.
Regent Baker asked where the case now stands and what our further obligations
are in that matter. Regent Nielsen requested that the General Counsel give a status
report on the case at the next meeting.
Vice President Brinkerhoff pointed out that the University's policy is not to
solicit bids for professional services. Although we could consider using more local
counsel, he said that money can frequently be saved by using fewer hours of a
professional who specializes in a particular type of litigation, and that other
considerations in selecting professional services include the employment of minority
firms.
Regent Roach concurred that the matter of selecting professional services is a
professional judgement that is best handled by the Counsel's office, as is the policy of
whether to expend University funds to defend an employee. In the case of employees
of the University who are acting within the scope of their employment, the University
needs to defend the employee if the case is appropriate. Each case has to be decided
on its own facts, and the General Counsel's office is best suited to make that judgment.
In this instance the University decided to defend a student who was acting in
accordance with existing University policy, and this decision was made on the basis of
policy implementation. He reiterated his belief that it is a matter of professional
judgement as to which counsel should be hired and under what circumstances.


-289 -



June Meeting, 1988


Regent Nielsen again stated his view that there is no need to employ
out-of-town counsel in this particular case, and that the fees being charged are
"exorbitant and unconscionable". In response to a question from President Fleming,
he said he would like both the policy question (once a case occurs, what factors will go
into the determination of what cases will be defended and who will defend) and the
fee question brought back to the Regents for discussion.
President Fleming noted that the current policy states that students and staff are
encouraged to report incidences of harassment, and that is what the student did. Once
we invite someone to tell us, he continued, we are obliged to protect that person if the
person is in turn sued for doing that. Regent Brown suggested that the statement to
be received by the Regents should address the issue of what cases we will defend.
Regent Power pointed out that while it is appropriate for the Regents to request
a policy statement in response to the issues raised by the Rosenboom affair, the Board
should be cautious in directing the general counsel as to who and who not to engage as
counsel. As for the amount of money being spend on the Rosenboom case, the Board
should consider whether the $26,000 is being suitably well spent. He cautioned the
Board to distinguish between what is appropriate at the board versus the management
level.
Regent Varner said that if we are encouraging members of the University
community to tell someone about these matters, we don't want the employees they
talk to be afraid to listen.
President Fleming said that a document would be provided to the Regents at
the July meeting regarding the University's policy and how it is implemented. The
matter of legal fees would be looked at concurrently, but separately from the policy
issue.
Reports, Continued
Vice President Brinkerhoff submitted the Personnel/Labor Relations report,
noting that the AFSCME negotiations had been successfully concluded. Vice
President Wilson submitted "Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and
Sponsored Projects" and "Awards Received: Research and Other Activities, March
26-April 22, 1988". The Regents voted unanimously to receive the reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich presented the monthly report of Gifts and Grants. The
Regents voted unanimously to receive these reports.


-290 -



June Meeting, 1988


American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School, and in the College of Pharmacy       97,325
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                       23,750
American Express Company, New York, New York
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration  20,000
American Heart Association, Inc. Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                        7,750
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Ameritech Fellowship Program in the Institute of Public Policy Studies  100,000
Amoco Production Foundation, Houston, Texas
for geology support in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts   15,000
Anonymous Donor
for history of art support in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                      7,000
Archer-Daniels-Midland Foundation, Decatur Illinois
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance
in the School of Business Administration                                  5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                                       15,417
AT&T Orlando Florida
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration  20,000
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                          10,519
Leland S. Bisbee I, Phoenix, Arizona
for the swimming and diving facility in the Department of Athletics       5,000
Mrs. Raymond H. Bishop, Ann Arbor
USG Corporation common stock; a Donor Pooled Income Fund
contribution for the ultimate benefit of the Dr. Clayton Willison
and Emma Elizabeth Willison Microbiology Fund in the Medical School      34,900
Black Law Student Alliance, Ann Arbor
for the Alden J. "Butch" Carpenter Memorial Fund in the Law School        6,000
Blum-Kovler Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance
in the School of Business Administration                                  5,000
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
pledge payment for aerospace facilities in the College of Engineering    100,000
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration      5,000
Walter S. Brown Estate
for plastic surgery research and teaching in the Medical School          39,347
Brunswick Foundation, Inc., Skokie, Illinois
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in
the School of Business Administration                                     5,000
Chase Manhattan Bank, New York, New York
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business
Administration, and for Employee Matching Gifts fund                      20,930
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                       24,598
Citibank (Delaware), New York New York
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                         12,395
Louis and Virginia Clemente Foundation, Inc., New York
New York; pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Law School      25,000
S Compton Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for population planning research in the School of Public Health          30,000
Cook FamlyFoundation. Owosso
for the Cook Family Undergraduate Admissions                             36,300
Council for Tobacco Research-U.SA. Inc., New York, New York
for pathology research in the Medical School                              17,500
Walter Cowan Hazard, Kentucky
for the Fred L. Leckie Scholarship and Loan Fund in the Law School        6,700
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                       23,674
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                        6,250
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                          6,610
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Thomas S. Monaghan Architect-in-Residence Fund
m the College of Architecture and Urban Planning                          15,000


-291 -



June Meeting, 1988


Exxon Corporation, New York, New York
for fhe Center for Ergonomics Affiliates Program in the College of
Efigineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts                            21,875
Ford Motor LandlDevelopment, Dearborn
for automotive transportation research in the Institute of
Science and Technofog                                                   10,000
Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver-& Jacobson Fund, Inc New York, New York
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance
in the School of Business Administration                                  5,000
William A. Garrison Estate
for the William A. Garrison Memorial Scholarship                         6,872
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for Employee Matchings Gifts fund                                        26,152
General Motors Coration. Detroit
for research in the College of Engineering                               15,000
Robert I. Goldstine, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Class of 1938 - Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts                                     10,000
Helzberg Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
predge payment for the Helzberg Scholarship in the School of Business Administration 10,000
Francis E. Heydt, Miami, Oklahoma
pledge payment for the swimming and diving facility in the Department of Athletics  5,000
Hughes Aircraft Company, Los Angeles California
pledge ayment for the Hughes Fund in the College of Engineering,
and for minployee Matching Gifts fund                                   20,000
Huron Mountain Wildlife Foundaion Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Natural Resources                          9,000
Roy M. Jacklin Estate
for the Roy M. Jacklin Student Aid Fund in the School of Business Administration  108,930
J.W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation, Sierra Madre, California
for support of the School of Business Administration and for the
Marion Leroy Burton Memorial Endowment in the President's Office        25,000
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso, Indiana;
for the Joseph and Louise Ada JarabakFund in the School of Dentistry     10,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health                             41,027
Pauline C. Jones Estate
for the Roger M. Jones Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering       50,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh
for the Forney W. Clement Memorial for patient care activities,
The University of Michigan Hospitals                                     9,393
KMS Industries, Inc Ann Arbor
for support of the University Musical Society                            5,000
Knight Foundation, Akron, Ohio
pledge payment for the Kmight Speciality Fellowships in the College
of Literature, Science and tie Arts                                    100,000
Betty Lambertson, Three Rivers
pedge payment for unrestricted support of the College of
iterature, Science and the Arts                                         5,000
F.R. LePage Bakery, Inc. Auburn, Minnesota
pledge payments for support of the School of Business Administration     5,000
LuciusN. Littauer Foundation, Inc. New York, New York
for the Littauer Judaica Book Fund in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                         15,00
Lockheed Missiles & Space Company, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for the Robotics IndustriarAffiliates Program and other
support in the College of Engineering                                    18,000
Louisiana Land and Exploration Company Foundation, New Orleans, Louisiana
for Employee Matchings Gifts                                             5,000
Marathon Oil Company, Findlay, Ohio
for the Porous Media Industrial Affiliates Program in the College
of Engineering                                                           15,000
Agnes C. Mckay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research fund                5,393
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Dexter
Cohu, Inc., common stock; for psychology support in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts and for support of the Center for
Research on Learning and Teaching                                         5,156
Michelin Tire Corporation, Greenville South Carolina
for pneumatic tire research in the Institute of Science and Technology   8,000


-292 -



June Meeting, 1988


Michigan Bell Telephone Company, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts                                              20,745
Michigan Eye-Bank and Transplantation Center, Ann Arbor
for the Michigan Eye-Bank Fund, The University of Michigan Hospitals     25,000
Miles Pharmaceuticals, West Haven, Connecticut
for pediatric immunology research in the Medical School                  27,000
Norman F Miller Gynecologic Society, Ann Arbor
for the Norman F. Miller Chair and the J. Robert Willson
Professorship, in the Medical School                                     33,509
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, Saint Paul, Minnesota
for macromolecular research in the Institute of Science and Technology   10,000
Thelma Fox Murray Trust
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                   15,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                      12,542
Ernest A. Novak Estate
a mortgage note receivable on vacant land in Darien, Connecticut
for the Czoll Memorial Scholarship                                       66,149
Perry Drug Stores Charitable Foundation, Pontiac
for the Ross Wilhelm Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
pledge payment for Japanese studies research in the College of
Literature Science and the Arts                                          60,000
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                         11,020
Douglas P. Rearick, Mackinac Island
for the Reanck Graduate Student Support Fund in the School of Education  10,000
Rockwell International, Automotive Operations Division, Troy
pledge payment for unrestricted capital projects in the School of
Business Administration                                                  20,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                        12,500
Scherling Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for fellowships and other support in the College of Pharmacy             15,500
Fred E. Shaw Trust
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                   10,489
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena California
for support of the School of Music                                       5,000
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martah B., and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the
Medical School                                                           12,187
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute of Public Policy Studies                  120,000
Staley Continental, Inc., Rolling Meadows, Illinois
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance
in the School of Business Administration, and for Employee
Matching Gifts fund                                                       5,198
Stanley Electric Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for automotive rear lighting research in the Institute of
Science and Technology                                                   45,000
Aaron M. Strefling, Palo Alto, California
pledge payment for the swimming and diving facility in the
Department of Athletics                                                  5,000
Edna Bailey Sussman Fund, New York, New York
for research in the School of Natural Resources                          17,325
George and Florence Symes Foundation, Owosso
for the Symes Scholarship in Chemical and Electrical Engineering, College
of Engineering                                                           47,278
Katherine Tuck Fun Detroit
for the Enrichment fund for the School of Music and the Enrichment
fund for the Museum of Art                                            1,000,000
Union Pacific Corporation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                          6,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Educational Foundation, Inc., New York,
New York, for research in the Medical School                             21,668
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration,
and for Employee Matching Gifts fund                                     7,893
Varnum, Riddering, Schmidt & Howlett, Grand Rapids
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Law School                30,000


-293 -



June Meeting, 1988


Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen and Katz Foundation New York, New York
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance
in the School of Business Administration                                 5,000
Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation, Stockholm, Sweden
for the Raoul Wallenberg Medal and Lecture Fund in the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies                                      25,000
Warner-Lambert Company. Morris Plains, New Jersey
for Employee Matchin Gifts fund                                          6,567
James A. Welch Foundation, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint, Summer Music Academy               5,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Habor
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business
Administration and for Employee Matching Gifts                          25,970
Whiting Foundation, Flint
for the Donald E. and Alice D. Johnson Fund in the Medical School       25,000
World Society Foundation, Zurich, Switzerland
for political science research in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                     5,766
Griffith J. Young Estate
for the Alumni Scholarship in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning  177,727
Dr. and Mrs. Chris J. D. Zarafonetis, Ann Arbor
for biostatistics support in the School of Public Health                 5,000
Zenith Insurance Company Encino, California
for the J. Ira Harris enter for the Study of Corporate Finance
in the School of Business Administration                                 5,000
Zenkel Foundation, New York New York
for the Lois and Bruce Zenkel Faculty Research and Development Fund,
and other support in the School of Business Administration;
and for the Zenkel Minority Scholarship and the Judaic Studies
Development Funds in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts    25,000
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Mr. and Mrs. W. Howard Bond, Ann Arbor
Eighteen, 19th century photographs; for the Museum of Art
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Booth, Vero Beach, Florida
Enrico Donati's "Cyclop V," and Lee Gatch's "Pieta Stone", oils; for the Museum of Art
Ernest C. Fackler III Dearborn Heights
the first complete Chinese Bible and the first Chinese book printed from moveable type
(at Serampore, 1815-1822); for the Department of Rare Books and Special Collections
of the Unversity Librarv
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
an instrument for characterizing semiconductor devices; for the Department of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Kahn Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
three New Guinea works, a breast ornament, a male figure and a female figure; for the Museum of Art
Landcadd, Inc., Franktown, Colorado
computer software; for the Landscape Architecture Program in the School of Natural Resources
Glayds Pitzer, Martinsburg, West Virginia
an external hardware, cochlear implant system; for the Department of Otolaryngology


-294 -



June Meeting, 1988


Personnel Actions
Provost Duderstadt noted that Dean Carl Berger, of the School of Education,
was stepping down to become the Director of Educational Computing, and that
Richard H. Shaw had been appointed to be Director of Admissions. The Regents did
not approve the retroactive leave of absence request for Raymond W. Ruddon,
pending receipt of further information. Regent Power commented on the outstanding
performance of Gilbert Whitaker as Dean of the School of Business Administration.
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective on September 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Jarl E. Fossum, Ph.D., Associate Professor of New Testament Studies
John L. Gland, Ph.D., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, Professor of Applied Physics, without tenure,
and Professor of Chemical Engineering, without tenure
Paul M. Kantor, MA., Associate Professor of Music
James E. Martin, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Environmental and Industrial
Health
Robert E. Quinn, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management
Riley S. Rees, M.D  Associate Professor of Surgery, July 1, 1988
Elliot Soloway, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, July 1, 1988
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on September 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Larry E. Mainstone, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Management, UM-Flint, July 1, 1988
Richard Nelson. Associate Professor of Theatre and Drama
Richard W. Redman, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Nursing
Suyu Shu, Ph.D., Associate P'rofessor of Surgery, June 27, 1988
Robin N. Widgery, Ph.D., Professor of Marketing
Martin B. Zimmerson, from Associate Professor to Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, and
from Associate to Professor of Economics
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
John M. Armstrong, Associate Professor Emeritus of Civil Engineering, reappointed to collaborate with
researchers on the project entitled "Coastal Monitoring Program and Shoreline Evolution Model"
for the College of Engineering for a one-year period
Julia Woods Andrews Professor Emeritus of Art, reappointed to teach a class for the School of Art,
September 1 1988 for an eight-month period
Edward S. Bordin, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, reappointed to teach a class in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts Fall term, 1988
David F. Bohr, Professor Emeritus of Physiology, reappointed as Program Director of the Hypertension
Program Project in the Medical School or a one-year period
William Levi Cash Jr. Professor Emeritus of Education, reappointed to teach a class in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts, Fall term, 1988
Wade Ellis, Associate Dean Emeritus of Graduate School and Professor Emeritus of Mathematics
reappointed to teach a class in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts Fall term, 1988
Joseph Jesse Firebaugh, Professor Emeritus of English, reappointed to teach a class in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts, University Year 1988-89
Otto Graf, Professor Emeritus of German, reappointed to teach a class in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, Fall term, 1988
G. Robert Greenberg, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, reappointed to continue research
activities in the Medical School for a one-year period


-295 -



June Meeting, 1988


James B. Griffin, Professor Emeritus of Anthropology and Curator Emeritus of Archaeology Museum
of Anthropology, reappointed to continue research work, work with students and receive grants
for a one-year period
Ruth M. Heyn, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed to continue
clinical activities of the Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases for a one-year
period
Graham B. Hovey, Professor Emeritus of Communication, reappointed to teach a class in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts Winter term, 1989
Kenneth Jones, Professor Emeritus of Botany, reappointed to teach a class in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, Fall term, 1988
Raleigh Morgan, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Romance Linguistics, reappointed to teach a class
in the College of Literature Science and the Arts, Fall term, 1988
Warren G. Palmer, Associate Professor Emeritus of Education and Associate Professor of Library
Studies, reappointed to teach a class in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts, University
Year, 1988-89
Suzanne M. Selig, reappointed as Coordinator of the School of Health Sciences and Director of Health
Care Program, UM-Flint for a three-year period
J. Radcliffe Squires, Professor Emeritus of Enlish reappointed to teach a class in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts University Year, 1988-89
William Steinhoff, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, reappointed to
teach a class in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts, Fall term, 1988
William B. Taylor, Professor Emeritus of Dermatology, reappointed to serve the Department of
Dermatology as attending staff physician at the St. Joseph Satellite Clinic, for a one-year period
Joseph E. Vaughn, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Physical Education, reappointed to
teach a class in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts, Fall term, 1988
Gilbert R. Whitaker Jr., reappointed as Dean of the School of Business Admimstration and
Professor of Business Economics with tenure, for a five-year period, January 1, 1989
Frank B. Womer, Professor Emeritus of Education, reappointed to continue his work with the Michigan
School Testing Conference, School of Education or a twelve-month period, January 1, 1988
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Michael Bradley, Everett E. Berg Professor of Business Administration, Professor of Finance,
with tenure and Professor of Law
Stephen L. Darwall, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure also appointed Chair of the
Department of Philosophy for a five-year term, July 1, 1988
John A. Faulkner, Professor of Physiology appointed Acting Director of the Institute of
Gerontology for a six-mont period
John R. Griffith, Andrew Pattullo Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, also appointed
Chair of the Department of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure for a three-year
period, July 1, 1988
John H. Holland Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, also Professor
of Psychology, with tenure
C. Philip Kearney,TProfessor of Education, appointed Interim Dean of the School of Education for a
six-month period, July 1,1988
Paul R. Lichter, F. Bruce Fralick Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, also appointed
Chair of the Department of Ophthalmology, July 1, 1988
Willard G. Manning, Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, also Professor of
Economics, without tenure
Thomas E. Moore, Professor of Zoology, with tenure, also appointed Director of the Exhibit Museum,
Jul 1,1988
Harrison Morton, Professor of Forrest Pathology and Urban Forestry, with tenure, appointed Acting
Dean of the School of Natural Resources, July 1 1988 for a six-month period
J. Graham Smith Professor of the History of Art, and Director of the Center tor
Western European Studies, appointed Interim Director of the Museum of Art,
August 1, 198 for a one-year period
Helen L. ~noke, Professor of Information and Library Science, Acting Associate Dean, School
of Information and Library Studies July 1,1988 for a six-monthi period
Charles A. Tait, Associate Professor of Education, also appointed Assistant Dean of the School of
Education with tenure, Jul 1, 1988
Martha Vicinus, Professor of Enish Language and Literature, with tenure, also appointed
Professor of History, without tenure
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Clark E. Chastain, Professor of Accounting, with tenure, appointed David M. French Professor,
for a two-year period, July 1, 1988


-296 -



June Meeting, 1988


Richard L. Daft, William Davidson Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for a
University year, September 1, 1988
Dan Schendel, William Davidson Visiting Professor of Business Administration, for a twelve month
period, July 1, 1988
Richard H. Shaw, Jr., Director of Undergraduate Admissions, August 1, 1988
Karen Siune, Howard R. Marsh VisitingProfessor of Journalism, Tor a one-month period, September 24
to October 14, 1988
The following committee appointments were approved.
School of Music Executive Committee
Martin E. Katz, for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice Charles R. Fisher,
term expired
R. Brent Wagner, for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice Leslie
W. Gwnn, term expired
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Deborah J. Oakley, for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice Reg Arthur Williams,
interim term expired
Reg Arthur Williams, for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice Bonnie L. Metzger,
term expired
Alumni Association. Budget and Finance Committee
Cedric V. Fricke, to succeed himself for a one-year term September 1, 1988 through August 31, 1989
William B. Krumm, for a one-year term, September 1, 1988 through August 31, 1989, vice James F.
Brinkerhoff, term expired
Committee on Military Officer Education Programs
Shaw Livermore Jr to succeed himself for a four-year term July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1992
Janice B. Lindberg, for a four-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1992, vice Ruth M. Barnard, term
expired
Advisory Committee on Recreation. Intramurals and Club Sports
Gay Ann Delanghe, for a two-year term, August 1, 1988 though July 31, 1990, vice George F.
Estabrook, term expired
Daniel G. Green, for a two-year term, August 1, 1988 through July 31, 1990, vice Thomas J. Powell,
term expired
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Arthur F. Coxford, Jr., to succeed himself for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through May 31, 1991
Donald R. Deskins. Jr., for a three-year term, June 1, 1988 through May 31, 1991, vice Lillian M. Simms,
term expired
Patricia B. Yocum, for a three-year term, June 1, 1988 through May 31, 1991, vice Alphonse R. Burdi,
term expired
Museum of Art Executive Committee
Marvin Eisenberg, for a two-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1990, vice Vincent E. Castagnacci,
term expired
Mignonette Yin Cheng, for a two-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1990, vice J. Graham Smith,
term expired
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Marjorie Lansing, for a two-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1990, new appointment
Otis M. Smith, for a one-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1990, new appointment
School of Dentistry Executive Committee
Donald R. Heys, July 1, 1988 though October 31, 1990, to succeed Major M. Ash Jr., term expired
Ronald J. Heys, July 1, 1988 throug  October 31, 1988, vice William E. Kotowicz (now ex officio as
Interim Dean)
Charles C. Kelsey, July 1, 1988 through October 31 1990 to succeed Robert E. Lorey, term expired
E. Richard McPhee, July 1, 1988 through October 31, 19A9, vice Gerald T. Charbeneau, on retirement
furlough,
UM-Deadrbom CitizensAdvisory Committee
Norman. Bodine for a four-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1992, vice John T. Caldwell, Jr.,
term expired
Herbert Boldt, to succeed himself, for a four-year term July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1992
Harry Lester, to succeed himself for a four-year term, Iuly 1, 1988 through June 30, 1992
Raffic Mackie, to succeed himself, for a four-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1992


-297 -



June Meeting, 1988


William Davidson Visiting Professor of Business Administration. Richard L.
Daft was appointed as the William Davidson Visiting Professor of Business
Administration for the period of September 1, 1988 to April 30, 1989. Dan Schendel
was appointed as the William Davidson Visiting Professor of Business Administration
for the period of July 1, 1988 to June 30, 1989.
Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor of Journalism. The Regents approved the
appointment of Karen Siune as the Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor of Journalism
for the period of September 24 through October 14, 1988.
David M. French Professor. The Regents appointed Clark E. Chastain as the
David R. French Professor at The University of Michigan-Flint for the period of July
1, 1988 to June 30, 1990.
Personnel Reports
The following Personnel Reports were received by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Assistant Professor
James A. Brunberg, M.D., Radiology, June 6, 1988
Almyra O. Fuller, Ph.D., Microbiology and Immunology, May 15 1988
Virginia Jo Wise, J.D., Information and Library Science, May 1, 1988
Instructor
Juanita Spallina, BA., Nursing, January 1, 1988
Lecturer
Ronald S. Adler, M.D., Radiology, July 1, 1988
Nanette C. Tertel, D.D.S., Dentistry, June 1, 1988
Visitin Professor
Herbert A. Hollister, Ph.D., Mathematics, May 1, 1988
VisitingAssociate Professor
Bruce A. Russell, Ph.D., Philosophy, May 1, 1988
Visiting Lecturer
Alan R. Thomas, MA., Information and Library Studies, May 1, 1988
Adjunct Lecturer
Jane M. Bingham, Ph.D., Education, UM-Flint, May 1, 1988
Gary M. Carnahan, BA., Education, UM-Flint, May 1, 1988
Wayne J. DiFranceis, MA., Political Science, May 1, 1988
David A. Feldt Architecture and Urban Planning, May 1, 1988
Patricia L. Tackitt, M.S., Nursing, UM-Flint, May 1, 1988
Clinical Assistant Professor I
Fraser M. Keith, M.D., Surgery, March 1, 1988
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective May 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Benson C. Duff, from Adiunct Lecturer to Lecturer, Dentistry
Jackson B. Linger, from Adjunct Lecturer to Lecturer, Dentistry
Susan L. Micklow, from Adjunct Lecturer to Lecturer, Dentistry


-298 -



June Meeting, 1988


Robert W. Miller, from Adjunct Lecturer to Lecturer, Dentistry
Philip S. Richards, from Adjunct Lecturer to Lecturer, Dentistry
Henry J. Temple, from Adjunct Lecturer to Lecturer, Dentistry
Tammy Trullard-Rey, from Adjunct Lecturer to Lecturer, Dentistry
Denise E. Turnunen, from Adjunct Lecturer to Lecturer, Dentistry
Paul A. Van Raaphorst, from Adjunct Lecturer to Lecturer, Dentistry
Daron S. Yarjaman, from Adjunct Lecturer to Lecturer, Dentistry
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED
ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective May 31, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Professor
Lawrence D. Brown, Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure and
Adjunct Associate Professor of Public Health andPolitical Science
Raul G. Caffesse, Dentistry, June 30, 1988
William R. Kinney, Jr., Price Waterhouse Auditing Professor of Accounting
Associate Professor
Damon R. Averill, Jr., Laboratory Animal Medicine
Judith Ozbolt, Nursing
Assistant Professor
Bernice F. Blamer, Education, UM-Flint
Stephen A. Butler, Accounting
Kenneth M. Eades, Finance, June 30 1988
Anthony T. Edwards, Greek and Latin
Robert K. Kazanjian, Corporate Strategy and International Business, June 30, 1988
Lecturer
Anthony E. Chiodo, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, June 30, 1988
Mary Kujawski, History of Art, May 27 1988
Stanley J. Nelson, Dentistry, June 30, 1988
AdiunctAssociate Professor
Earl J. Prahl, Sociology/Anthropology/Social Work, UM-Flint, April 30, 1988
Adiunct Lecturer
Deborah L. Fox, Dentistry May 13, 1988
Dennis R. Hiltunen, Civil Engineering, May 30,1988
Clinical Instructor
Nancy J. Hamlin, Internal Medicine


-299 -



June Meeting, 1988


Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents voted
unanimously to adopt the following retirement memoirs:
Kamal Asgar, Professor of Dentistry, will retire from active faculty status as of
June 30, 1988, after many distinguished years of service.
A native of Iran, Professor Asgar received his B.S. degree from the Technical
College of Tehran in 1945, and his M.S., B.S.E., and Ph.D. degrees from The
University of Michigan in 1948, 1951, and 1959, respectively. He joined The
University of Michigan faculty in 1946 as a research assistant in the School of
Dentistry's Department of Dental Materials. In 1956, he accepted two half-time
appointments, research associate and instructor in dentistry; he was appointed
assistant professor in 1959, associate professor in 1962, and professor in 1966.
The bulk of Professor Asgar's research has been in the area of metals, casting,
and porcelain bonding. Over the years, this research has resulted in a number of
major contributions to the field, including development of the first spherical high
copper alloy, a new casting technique for more accurate casting of dental restorations,
a new technique for measuring true contraction of gypsum products, a different way of
measuring the bond strength of porcelain fused to metal, and a new partial denture
alloy. This list barely scratches the surface of his total work, which is contained in
some eighty-six articles published over his career. When reviewing the body of his
work to date, the contribution that stands out to him as the most significant is his
development of the two-phase concept used to study brittle failure microscopically,
which was published in the American Society for Metals Transactions Quarterly in
September 1964.
Among the many honors that Professor Asgar has received are the 1963, 1970,
and 1983 Paul Gibbons Award, presented by the senior class every year to the
instructor judged most outstanding in four years of schooling. He also received the
1970 Wilmer Souder Award from the International Association for Dental Research's
Dental Materials Group and the 1984 Hollenback Award from the Academy of
Operative Dentistry. He has served as a member or officer of a number of
professional societies and on several national boards. He is listed in American Men
and Women in Science, Who's Who in the Midwest, and Who's Who in Technology
Today.
Professor Asgar has been a consultant to the United States Naval School in
Bethesda, Maryland, the Veterans' Administration Hospital in Allen Park, Michigan,
Walter Reed Medical Center in Washington, D.C., the United States Air Force Base
in Lackland, Texas, and the American Dental Association's Council on Dental
Materials, Instruments, and Equipment. A guest lecturer in dental schools and at
professional meetings throughout the United States and abroad, he continues to travel
extensively.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Kamal Asgar Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
John A. Clark, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 1988, after a long and distinguished professional career.
Professor Clark served as a first lieutenant in the United States Air Force from
1943 to 1945, flying thirty-two missions in Western Europe. Following his military
service, he entered The University of Michigan and in 1948 received his B.S.E. degree
in mechanical engineering. He then pursued graduate studies in mechanical
engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), completing his S.M.
degree in 1949 and his Sc.D. degree in 1952. He joined the MIT faculty as an assistant


-300 -



June Meeting, 1988


professor in 1952 and became the associate director of MIT's Heat Transfer
Laboratory in 1954. During this time, he was also on the faculty at Northeastern
University. In 1957, he brought his considerable expertise to The University of
Michigan, where he joined the Department of Mechanical Engineering as a professor.
He later went on to chair the department from 1966 to 1974. His leadership and
initiatives were admired by many.
During his career, Professor Clark authored more than sixty technical papers
and book contributions. He was the associate editor of the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Journal of Heat Transfer for five years and senior
editor for the 1978 ASME International Heat Transfer Conference. In addition, he
served in editorial capacities for the International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer,
the Joural for Nonequilibrium Thermodynamics, and Solar Age. Professor Clark has
been honored with several awards for his contributions to the thermal sciences,
including the 1956 ASME Pi Tau Sigma Gold Medal, the 1965 National Science
Foundation Senior Postdoctoral Fellowship, the 1978 ASME Heat Transfer Division
Memorial Award, and the 1981 ASME Centennial Medallion. He is a Fellow of
ASME, and his work has also been recognized by Tau Beta Pi, Phi Kappa Phi, Pi Tau
Sigma, and Sigma Xi.
Highly respected in his field, Professor Clark frequently gave invited lectures
and was the principal speaker at many heat transfer symposiums. He also participated
in and chaired several committees for professional and scientific organizations in
engineering as well as for the University community. Professor Clark became very
active in the solar energy field. He was instrumental in uniting research in solar
engineering with manufacturing and design innovations, and is recognized nationally
as a solar expert.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his notable
accomplishments in the thermal sciences and his many contributions to the scientific
and University community by naming John A. Clark Professor Emeritus of Mechanical
Engineering.
Horace W. Dewey, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, retired from
active faculty status on May 31, 1988, after an unusually productive career as a teacher
and scholar.
Born in China of missionary parents, Professor Dewey received his A.B. degree
from The University of Michigan in 1942, following which he served in the United
States Army in Africa and Europe. He returned to The University of Michigan in
1946, where he served as a teaching fellow in Russian and German, and received his
M.A., LL.B., and Ph.D. degrees in 1948, 1950, and 1955, respectively. He was
appointed as an instructor in Russian in 1947, assistant professor in 1957, associate
professor in 1959, and professor in 1962.
Professor Dewey taught a variety of classes on Russian language and literature,
ultimately specializing in Old Russian literature and literature of the 18th century.
Throughout much of his career he also regularly taught pre-Petrine Russian history in
the Department of History. His attentiveness to his students and his deep knowledge
of his subjects always made him an extremely popular teacher.
Professor Dewey's research interests centered on pre-Petrine Russia's literature
and history, with special reference to its legal and institutional history. In analyzing
primary sources on such seemingly prosaic subjects as interest rates, tax-collecting
procedures, amnesties, etc., he attempted to show the effect such institutions and
practices had on the lives of Russian people. Professor Dewey was also interested in
teaching methods for the Russian language. He was active in teacher exchange
programs with the USSR, conducting study tours to that country and hosting
delegations of Soviet teachers in Ann Arbor in cooperation with the English Language


-301 -



June Meeting, 1988


Institute.
An unusually gifted linguist, Professor Dewey is fluent in Russian, French, and
German, and he has maintained his childhood knowledge of Chinese through
continuous study of that language. He has served the University on many occasions as
interpreter for foreign visitors. His published works include many reviews and articles,
and the following books: Reading and Translating Contemporary Russian, Muscovite
Judicial Texts: Russian Private Law XIV-XVII Centuries, and Court Law for the People
(Zakon Sudnyj Liudem). He continues his scholarship, and several book-length
studies are currently in progress.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by
naming Horace W. Dewey Professor Emeritus of Slavic Languages and Literatures.
A. Stephen Dunning, Professor of English Language and Literature in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Education in the School
of Education, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1988, after a distinguished
career as a teacher, scholar, and writer.
Professor Dunning received his B.A. degree from Carleton College in 1949, his
B.S. and M.A. degrees from the University of Minnesota in 1951, and his Ph.D. degree
from Florida State University in 1959. He came to The University of Michigan as an
associate professor of English and education in 1964, having served previously on the
faculties of Duke University from 1959 to 1961 and Northwestern University from
1962 to 1964. He was promoted to professor of English and education in 1967. He
brought to his central role as an educator of teachers his own experience as a
pre-collegiate educator, having taught junior and senior high school English for eight
years in Minnesota, New Mexico, and Florida before receiving his Ph.D.
Although Professor Dunning came to Michigan both to educate prospective
teachers and to chair the joint Ph.D. program in English and education, his impact
upon American and public education spread far beyond the University and the State
of Michigan. He published influential articles on issues in education and wrote
textbooks and curricular materials that were widely adopted. His national stature was
recognized by the offices he held in national organizations. From 1970 to 1972, for
example, he served as national chairman of the Conference on English and Education
and from 1974 to 1975, president of the National Council of Teachers of English, the
pre-eminent organization of English educators.
Professor Dunning did much to bring modern poetry into American school
classrooms. He edited several important anthologies, organized and sponsored
readings, and recorded poets reading and talking about their works and lives. As his
career matured, Professor Dunning devoted more and more energy to his own writing,
especially of poetry, and published widely in poetry magazines. But always a teacher,
he organized and ran writing groups and poetry workshops for both school children
and adults.
In his role as chair of the joint Ph.D. program in English and education,
Professor Dunning served many classes of graduate students, many of whom have gone
on to important careers in English. Both within the University community community and beyond
its boundaries, Professor Dunning has had a major influence on numerous areas of
education at all levels.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar, teacher, poet, and national
leader by naming A. Stephen Dunning Professor Emeritus of English Language and
Literature and Professor Emeritus of Education.
Emery E. George, Professor of German in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status as of May 31, 1988.
A native of Budapest, Hungary, Professor George came to the United States in


-302 -



June Meeting, 1988


1946, and became a naturalized citizen in 1954. He received his B.A., M.A., and Ph.D.
degrees in Germanic languages and literatures from The University of Michigan in
1955, 1959 and 1964, respectively. After a two-year appointment at the University of
Illinois, he returned to The University of Michigan in 1966 as assistant professor. He
was promoted to associate professor in 1969 and professor in 1975.
A winner of the 1960 Hopwood Major Award for Poetry, Professor George is as
celebrated a poet as he is a scholar and teacher, having published several volumes of
original poetry as well as numerous translations of poems. He has contributed, and
continues to contribute, to the most highly regarded and selective scholarly journals.
He is on the editorial board of several journals in various fields. His production of
books -- editions, translations, and original works -- brings acclaim to the University
and the department. Although internationally recognized for his work on the German
poet Friedrich Holderlin, Professor George's intellectual horizons encompass many
literary figures in American, English, French, German, Hungarian, and Russian
literatures, from the eighteenth century to the present.
Professor George enjoys a reputation as an inspiring and multifaceted teacher,
having taught courses in the University's Center for Russian and East European
Studies, the Program in Comparative Literature, the departments of English, Slavic,
and Germanic Languages and Literatures, the Great Books Program, the College
Honors Program, and in musicology.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator, scholar, and poet for his
outstanding contributions to his students, his profession, and the University by naming
Emery E. George Professor Emeritus of German.
G. Robert Greenberg, Professor of Biological Chemistry, will retire from active
faculty status on June 30, 1988, after a highly productive career as a teacher and
scientific investigator.
A native of Minnesota, Professor Greenberg received his B.A., M.S., and Ph.D.
degrees in biochemistry from the University of Minnesota in 1941, 1942, and 1944,
respectively. Upon completion of his doctoral studies, Professor Greenberg accepted
a position as a senior instructor in the Department of Biochemistry at Western
Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. He held that title until 1948, when he was
named assistant professor of biochemistry; he was promoted to associate professor in
1954 and remained at Western Reserve University until 1957.
Professor Greenberg joined The University of Michigan faculty in 1957 as
professor of biological chemistry and has remained at this institution since that time.
He has been vigorous in research and teaching, has contributed heavily to the present
strength of the Department of Biological Chemistry, and is known internationally for
his innovative research contributions in the areas of purine biosynthesis, enzymology,
and molecular genetics.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist and health educator for his
dedicated service by naming G. Robert Greenberg Professor Emeritus of Biological
Chemistry.
Ruth M. Heyn, M.D., Professor of Pediatrics in the Medical School, will retire
from active faculty status on June 30, 1988, concluding a distinguished career of
teaching, research, administration, and patient care.
Dr. Heyn received her B.S. degree magna cum laude from the University of
Toledo in 1943 and her M.D. degree from the University of Chicago in 1947.
Following this, she took an internship at Blodgett Memorial Hospital in Grand
Rapids, Michigan. She then returned to Chicago to complete a pediatric residency
and then a hematology fellowship at Bobs Roberts Memorial Hospital at the
University of Chicago. In 1951, she joined The University of Michigan faculty as an


-303 -



June Meeting, 1988


instructor in pediatrics and as a research assistant at the Simpson Memorial Institute.
She accepted an assistant professorship in the Department of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases in 1958; she was promoted to associate professor in 1964 and
professor in 1970. From 1958 to 1982, she also served as director of the Section of
Hematology-Oncology in the Department of Pediatrics, a very demanding post at a
critical time in the development of this field. In addition, from 1962 to 1965, she
served as director of pediatrics at Wayne County General Hospital.
A highly respected teacher with a quick, incisive wit, she led students at all
levels to better thinking through her penetrating questions and comments. She
demanded and received excellence from those about her by giving it herself. The
marked esteem and respect in which she is held by her many students, house officers,
post-doctoral fellows, and faculty colleagues were earned by her adherence to the
highest principles of medical practice and by her careful, questioning approach to
medical thinking. These intellectual traits were complemented and perhaps even
surpassed by her compassion for and strong dedication to the patients in her care and
the careful, thoroughly weighed and humane manner in which she treated them. Her
patients and their parents are among her strongest admirers.
Dr. Heyn has been a pioneer in a field which has undergone revolutionary
developments during her career. As a physician with expertise in hematology,
particularly the care of patients with coagulation defects, she helped to introduce
exchange transfusions for newborns to the Medical Center. But she is best known for
her work with patients who have leukemia and cancerous disorders. Dr. Heyn was an
active investigator in the national group whose work produced a change in the
prognosis for the disease of childhood leukemia from being universally fatal to having
many cures.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for her numerous
contributions as clinician, scholar, and teacher by naming Ruth M. Heyn Professor
Emeritus of Pediatrics.
Thomas Hilbish, Professor of Music (Conducting) and Director of University
Choirs, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1988.
Professor Hilbish received his B.Mus. degree from the University of Miami in
1941. From 1941 to 1946, he served as a United States Navy pilot. He then studied at
Westminster Choir College in Princeton, New Jersey, and received his M.Mus. degree
in 1948. In subsequent years, he pursued doctoral work and postgraduate study at
Columbia, Rutgers, and Indiana Universities. He also served as Visiting Professor at
New York University, Princeton University, Westminster Choir College, Indiana
University, and Harvard. From 1948 to 1964, Professor Hilbish was the choral
director at Princeton High School in Princeton, New Jersey. His impeccable work
with the Princeton High School Choir brought him many recognitions, including
several trips with the choir to foreign countries sponsored by the Department of State.
The outstanding choral program established at Princeton High School attracted
the attention of members of the music faculty at The University of Michigan, who
invited Professor Hilbish to serve as Guest Lecturer for the winter and summer terms
in 1965. That year, he was appointed Associate Professor of Music. He was promoted
to Professor of Music in 1968 and Director of University Choirs in 1973. He served
nine years as Chairman of the Conducting Department.
During his tenure at The University of Michigan, Professor Hilbish conducted
more than one hundred public performances in Ann Arbor. Perhaps his most
significant contributions, however, have been to lead choral ensembles on tours
abroad. In this capacity, he traveled to Spoleto, Italy in 1969 to lead the
choir-in-residence at the Festival of Two Worlds; to the U.S.S.R. in 1971 for a
seven-week tour State Department Cultural Exchange tour; to the Canary Islands in


-304 -



June Meeting, 1988


the summers of 1975 and 1976 as leader of the choir-in-residence for the Las Palmas
Opera Festival; and to Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Poland for a five-week tour in
1983. The unforgettable experiences that The University of Michigan students had in
connection with this cultural outreach are a tribute to Professor Hilbish's energy as
both an entrepreneur and a music director.
Professor Hilbish has made several recordings with the Chamber Choir,
primarily of 10th century music. Particularly noteworthy is his recording of Menotti's
The Unicorn, the Gordon, and the Manticore, which received a Grammy nomination in
1981. The Chamber Choir was the only University ensemble to be nominated, and
other competing conductors in its category included Robert Shaw, Carlo Maria
Giulini, Claudio Abbado, and Seiji Ozawa. For six years, Professor Hilbish served on
the Board of Observers of Harvard College, along with Leonard Bernstein, Erich
Leinsdorf, Donald J. Grout, and Leroy Anderson.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Thomas
Hilbish Professor Emeritus of Music and Director Emeritus of University Choirs.
William J. Horvath, Professor of Health Systems and Research Scientist, will
retire from active faculty status as of June 30, 1988, after a most productive academic
career.
A native of New York, Professor Horvath received his B.S. degree from the City
College of New York in 1936 and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from New York
University in 1938 and 1940, respectively. During World War II, he undertook various
research assignments for the U.S. Navy Department, starting as a physicist for the
Bureau of Ordinance and serving later as an operations analyst for the Chief of Naval
Operations. For his work on antisubmarine operations, Professor Horvath received
the Presidential Certificate of Merit at the end of the war. From 1945 to 1952, he
helped to establish evaluation groups first for the Chief of Naval Operations, and later
in the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
After leaving Washington in 1952, Professor Horvath did industrial consulting
for the Sylvania Electric Laboratory and, in 1955, he joined the Airborne Instrument
Laboratory as section head in medical electronics. In this capacity, he helped develop
a fetal cardiotachometer and an electronic scanning microscope for the detection of
cancer cells. In 1958, he came to The University of Michigan as a research associate
at the Mental Health Research Institute. He was named research physicist in 1959,
research scientist in 1974, and received the additional appointment of Professor of
Health Systems in the Department of Psychiatry in 1975.
Professor Horvath's research at MHRI dealt with the development of
mathematical models for the study of nerve nets and individual and group behavior.
He was also instrumental in the application of operations research techniques to the
organization and delivery of health services. In 1977, he initiated the Washtenaw
County Health Survey, which has been used as the basis for a number of successful
interventions in preventive health behavior.
As a pioneer in the use of operations research for improving the functioning of
large-scale systems, Professor Horvath was instrumental in broadening the
applications of operations research to other fields. He was one of the founders of the
Operations Research Society of America, which awarded him the George E. Kimball
Medal for distinguished service. He is listed in World Who's Who in Science,
International Who's Who in Medical Engineering, and American Men in Science, and is a
Fellow of both the American Public Health Association and the American Association
for the Advancement of Science.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health scientist and educator by
naming William J. Horvath Professor Emeritus of Health Systems.


-305 -



June Meeting, 1988


Charles F. Lehmann, Professor of Education, retired from active faculty status
on May 31, 1988, after more than thirty-five years of service to The University of
Michigan.
A native of Bluffton, Ohio, Professor Lehmann received his A.B. degree with
distinction from The University of Michigan in 1948. He continued his education at
The University of Michigan, earning his A.M. degree in history in 1955 and his Ph.D.
degree in education in 1957. He served as a supervising teacher at University High
School in Ann Arbor in 1948; an assistant professor at Northern Michigan College of
Education in Marquette from 1948 to 1950; and a consultant in school organization
and plant at the Department of Public Instruction in Lansing from 1950 to 1952. In
1953, he was invited to direct a research project at The University of Michigan
sponsored by the Midwest Administration Center at the University of Chicago and
funded by the Kellogg Foundation.
Professor Lehmann joined The University of Michigan faculty in 1955 as a
lecturer in the School of Education. He was named assistant professor and assistant
dean of the School of Education in 1957; he was promoted to associate professor in
1959 and to professor and associate dean in 1963. In these administrative posts,
Professor Lehmann guided the school through a period of expansion. He assumed
major responsibility for the development of a distinguished undergraduate program in
teacher education, while simultaneously managing the administrative affairs of the
school. After serving thirteen years as assistant and associate dean, Professor
Lehmann assumed a full-time instructional assignment in social foundations.
Commenting on his experience as associate dean, Professor Lehmann said, "My
colleagues have greatly honored me during the past years by trusting me to represent
them within the University community and to the world outside. I thank them all for
their support and encouragement during a long and lively tenure. And now, I look
forward to a period of self renewal as a teacher."
Among the courses Professor Lehmann taught during his teaching career are
"The Sociology of Teaching," "Educational Ideas of Major Sociologists," "Authority
Control and Power in Teaching," and "The History of Higher Education." Professor
Lehmann ably directed dissertations and contributed numerous scholarly publications
in the areas of his interest and expertise. Students found Professor Lehmann to be a
stimulating teacher. Perhaps the most fitting tribute was made by one of his students,
who commented, "... Dr. Lehmann has illustrated his respect for the process of history
through utilizing motivating readings, student-interaction-oriented lectures, and his
scholarly research and experience. I would classify him as brilliant, vibrant, and witty,
and that is still not enough."
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Charles F.
Lehmann Professor Emeritus of Education.
Hsi-Yen Liu, M.D., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, will retire from active faculty status on June 30, 1988.
Born in Beijing, China, Dr. Liu received her A.B. degree from Morningside
College in Sioux City, Iowa in 1944. She was awarded the Barbour Scholarship for
Oriental Women in 1944 and matriculated at The University of Michigan Medical
School, from which she received her M.D. degree in 1948. After an internship at
Harper Hospital in Detroit, she returned to University Hospital for her pediatric
residency. Upon completing her residency, Dr. Liu joined the Department of
Pediatrics and continued her training, first as a directed scholar under the tutelage of
Horace Davenport, William Beaumont Professor of Physiology, and then, in a
post-doctoral fellowship with Professor Burton Baker from 1960 to 1964. Her studies
focused on the enzyme histochemistry of the gut epithelium. She was appointed
assistant professor of pediatrics in 1959 and was promoted to associate professor in


-306 -



June Meeting, 1988


1965.
Dr. Liu's scholarly interests were rather quickly drawn to alimentary absorption
problems. She delineated a condition in which absorption is blocked by disease but
can be restored with the careful elimination of allergenic foods, while maintaining the
electrolyte and fluid balance of the child. Her care of patients with this condition is an
example of the dedication and commitment that she demonstrated repeatedly in her
work. Her work in intestinal physiology and in the care of patients with
gastro-intestinal problems paved the way for the founding of the present section of
Gastroenterology in the Department of Pediatrics. Her many clinical activities
expressed her concern and her compassion for people.
Dr. Liu should be known first as an educator, a person who placed learning and
teaching first among the activities of the University. She attended not only to the
content of the material that she presented, but also to the students' perception and
learning. Her concern for education and for the learner was felt by students, be they
medical students, house staff, or others. When the Medical Student Senior Award for
outstanding teaching was established in 1958, she was its first recipient. She received
this honor the following year as well. In 1974, she received the Pediatric House Staff
Teaching Award. This was quickly followed by the Galens Silver Shovel Award, and
by her being named Prefect of the honorary society. In 1986, she received the Kaiser
Permanente Award as the outstanding clinical teacher. These awards have been
properly placed and have appropriately recognized her achievements.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for her numerous
contributions as a clinician, a scholar, and a teacher by naming Hsi-Yen Liu Associate
Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases.
James V. McConnell, Professor of Psychology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1988.
Professor McConnell received his B.A. degree from Louisiana State University
in 1947 and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Texas in 1954 and
1956, respectively. He joined the faculty of The University of Michigan in 1956 as an
instructor. He accepted an appointment as an assistant professor in 1958; he was
promoted to associate professor in 1962 and professor in 1963. He also served as
research psychologist at the Mental Health Research Institute from 1963 to 1980.
Professor McConnell's scientific research and writing, including some eight
authored or edited books and countless book chapters and journal articles, have been
wide-ranging, covering such topics as sensory phenomena in autistic children,
subliminal stimulation, and the psychology of persuasion. But he is best known for his
series of provocative studies on learning and memory transfer or "transfer of training"
in invertebrates, especially planaria. At the same time, he has literally shaped the
understanding of psychology for more than a generation of college students in the
United States and beyond with his immensely successful, widely adopted introductory
text, Understanding Human Behavior, now in its fifth edition and multiple translations.
On the lighter, yet by no means trivial side, Professor McConnell entertained, buzzed,
and needled his colleagues in his role as founder, editor, and publisher of the
devilishly satiric Worm Runners Digest for twenty years. Less visible to his academic
colleagues have been his published science fiction novellas and short stories and his
flowering career as an orchidist.
A continuous stream of student comments concretize and express deep gratitude
over the intellectual excitement, personal zest and individualized attention that
Professor McConnell regularly brought to his undergraduate teaching. His
commitment was illustrated by his insistence on questioning standard teaching
methods, and by his own highly innovative and effective teaching methods with
undergraduates over the years, both in large general lecture courses and in special


-307 -



June Meeting, 1988


honors courses.
Professor McConnell's honors and awards include a Fulbright scholarship, a
Fellowship at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, an NIMH
Research Career Development Award (1963 to 1968), and the American
Psychological Foundation's Distinguished Teaching Award. His expertise has
repeatedly been sought in consulting roles by such disparate institutions as the
Department of Commerce, the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, the
Smithsonian Institution, the Department of Defense, and numerous corporations.
The Regents now salute this distinguished social scientist and teacher by naming
James V. McConnell Professor Emeritus of Psychology.
Gail W. Rector will retire from active status as of June 30, 1988, following thirty
years of service to The University of Michigan as President of the University Musical
Society.
Over a span of forty years, Gail W. Rector has played a vital role in the cultural
life of The University of Michigan through his service to the University Musical
Society.
A 1940 graduate of The University of Michigan, Gail W. Rector served from
1945 to 1954 as assistant to Charles Sink, who was President of the Musical Society at
that time. After three years as assistant manager of the Boston Symphony Orchestra
and executive secretary of the Berkshire Music Center, he returned to Ann Arbor in
1957 to become the fifth president of the Society since its founding in 1879. He now
retires from that position, with the gratitude of the University and the larger
community for his distinguished service in that post.
Under Gail Rector's direction, the University Musical Society has presented
programs of music and dance of unsurpassed quality and variety. His remarkable
success in bringing to Ann Arbor the world's great performing artists has been marked
by a warm personal acquaintance with the premier artists and their managers; by a
sharp eye, or ear, for young talent not yet widely known; by careful attention to detail
in staging performances; by thoughtful hospitality to the performers; and by
indefatigab e energy in managing the affairs of the Musical Society.
A masterful impresario, Gail Rector has brought great pleasure to hundreds of
thousands of concert-goers, and he has enriched the cultural life of the University and
of the state and region. Because of his dedicated and skillful service, The University
of Michigan is internationally known as a center of excellence in presentations of the
performing arts.
In gratitude for his distinguished career in the service of the University and the
Ann Arbor community, the Regents now confer upon Gail W. Rector the title of
President Emeritus of the University Musical Society.
John W. Reed, Thomas M. Cooley Professor of Law, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 1988. In the nearly forty years since Professor Reed first became a
member of the Law School faculty, he has served the Law School, the University, and
the legal profession with remarkable energy and enthusiasm.
Professor Reed earned his LL.B. degree from Cornell University in 1942, and
his LL.M. and Jur.Sci.D. degrees from Columbia University in 1949 and 1957,
respectively. Following his years in practice and on the faculty of the University of
Oklahoma, he joined The University of Michigan faculty as an associate professor in
1949; he was promoted to professor in 1953. His service here has been interrupted
only during a four-year period when he was dean of the University of Colorado School
of Law. It is typical of his willingness to accept new challenges that he now has
become dean of the Law School at Wayne State University.
As a scholar, Professor Reed has written chiefly in the fields of civil procedures


-308 -



June Meeting, 1988


and evidence. He has carried his scholarly knowledge and abilities outside the
academy and the journal as well. Among his many acts of service have been two tours
of duty as a reporter for the Committee on Rules of Evidence of the Michigan
Supreme Court, and service on the Council of the Litigation Section of the American
Bar Association.
As a teacher, Professor Reed's remarkable gifts routinely brought student
enrollments that overflowed the largest classrooms at the Law School. His wisdom is
illuminated by felicitous wit. Perhaps more important, he provides a living example of
the ways in which a warm and compassionate person can live and grow in the law. His
teaching has carried him outside the University into the fields of continuing legal
education. He has been one of the national leaders in the movement that has
improved the quality of continuing legal education and entrenched its importance.
His contributions to this field were recognized when he was given the Harrison Tweed
Award, a recognition bestowed only at intervals of several years.
Professor Reed has been a model citizen of the University, serving on
innumerable committees for the Law School and the University. In service to his
students, scholarship, the profession, and the University, he has provided an
outstanding model for us all.
The Regents now salute this distinguished servant of the University by naming
John W. Reed Thomas M. Cooley Professor Emeritus of Law.
Constance 0. Rinehart, Professor of Information and Library Studies, will retire
from active faculty status as of June 30, 1988.
A native of West Virginia, Professor Rinehart received her B.A. degree summa
cum laude from Marshall University in Huntington, West Virginia in 1943 and her
A.B.L.S. and A.M.L.S. degrees from The University of Michigan in 1944 and 1948,
respectively. She joined The University of Michigan faculty in 1948 as a senior catalog
librarian in the University Library; she was promoted to assistant professor in the
School of Information and Library Studies with a 33% appointment in 1967 and a
100% appointment in 1969. She was named associate professor in 1971 and professor
in 1977. Professor Rinehart received a joint appointment to assistant dean from 1981
to 1987.
Professor Rinehart's area of expertise in the Department of Information and
Library Studies was bibliographic control. Prior to joining The University of Michigan
faculty, she was an assistant cataloger at Goucher College in Baltimore, Maryland.
She taught cataloging and classification at The University of Michigan for fourteen
years before assuming administrative responsibilities as assistant dean. In her
administrative capacity, she had primary responsibility for the administrative
operation of the School of Information and Library Studies, including course
scheduling and admission/financial aid decisions.
Professor Rinehart had endless patience and a continuing desire to assist
students with any professional problems they encountered. Her dedication to the field
and her great respect and friendship for students earned her a unique and admired
place among them. Her great strength in handling the many fine details of editing
promotional materials provided substantial benefit to the school. Professor Rinehart
played a significant role in the redirection of the school through its recent curriculum
reform and new faculty appointments. She provided continuity from 1984 to 1986, a
period during which the dean retired, an interim-dean was appointed, and a new dean
was named.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for her many
accomplishments by naming Constance 0. Rinehart Professor Emeritus of
Information and Library Studies.


-309 -



June Meeting, 1988


Jane Schwertfeger, Professor of Education, retired from active faculty status on
May 31, 1988, after thirty-one years of service to The University of Michigan
Professor Schwertfeger received her B.A. degree in education from Iowa State
College in 1947. In 1951, she received her M.A. degree in child development from the
University of Iowa, where she stayed on as a teacher at the Child Welfare Research
Station for three years. After serving as a teacher at The University of Michigan's
Neuropsychiatric Institute for two years, she taught in the School of Education's
Laboratory School from 1957 to 1960, serving quarter-time as lecturer in education.
In 1960, she received her Ph.D. degree from The University of Michigan's School of
Education, where she continued to be active in building the nursery and kindergarten
education program. She was promoted to assistant professor in 1961, associate
professor in 1966, and professor in 1972.
During her tenure at The University of Michigan, Professor Schwertfeger was
the person chiefly responsible for early childhood education in its various aspects. She
regularly taught courses and supervised dissertation research in that area; she is
known among students and colleagues for her gentle but firm advocacy on behalf of
preschool and kindergarten children, including young children of divorced parents.
She believed that studies in growth and development are an essential component in all
teacher education programs and was active in cooperative ventures to enhance such
studies at the University. Her participation and administrative service at the
University's Children's Center was indicative of these concerns, as were her
consultations and leadership of professional workshops. Professor Schwertfeger has
recently been instrumental in the co-sponsoring of a lecture series on early childhood.
Her publications have dealt primarily with the education of teachers working with
young children. In all circumstances, she has remained a steady influence upon and an
inspiration to those interested in her chosen field.
Professor Schwertfeger has maintained a relationship with both state and
national professional groups in her field, including the Society for Research in Child
Development and the National Association for the Education of Young Children. She
has served on several major committees of the School of Education, including the
Executive Committee of her program, the Research Committee, and the Human
Subjects Review Committee, and she has served on the Governing Committee of the
Early Childhood Consortium of the Big Ten Universities.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Jane
Schwertfeger Professor Emeritus of Education.
Franklin W. Smith, D.D.S., Professor of Dentistry in the Department of Partial
Denture Prosthodontics, will retire from active faculty status as of June 30, 1988, after
a long and distinguished association with the School of Dentistry.
Born in Pickford, Michigan, Dr. Smith graduated from Rudyard High School,
moved to Detroit, and enrolled in the Henry Ford Trade School. From 1943 to 1947,
he served as a second lieutenant in the United States Army Air Force. He attended
the Michigan Technological University for two years prior to entering The University
of Michigan D.D.S. program in 1952, and received his D.D.S. and M.S. degrees from
The University of Michigan in 1956 and 1959, respectively. He joined The University
of Michigan faculty in 1956 as a clinical instructor; he was appointed assistant
professor in 1962, associate professor in 1965, and professor in 1968. He chaired the
Department of Partial Denture Prosthodontics from 1964 to 1987.
Dr. Smith's research and clinical studies include such areas as bone changes
during exercise stimulation of exdentulous areas, efficacy of gold plating chromenickel
alloys, exercise therapy and prosthodontics, stress reduction in removable partial
dentures, method of clasp repair, technique for restoring abutments for removable
partial dentures, method of accurately recording the limits of the border structures by


-310 -



June Meeting, 1988


the use of a customized impression tray, use of a glass ionomer cement, impressioning
for proper placement of lingual bar connector, and application and evaluation of glass
inomer restorations. He has taught many courses for faculty and staff at other dental
schools, for dental societies, for special groups, and for national dental organizations.
From 1979 to 1981, he presented a series of courses on removable partial
prosthodontics through the University of Pittsburgh's Department of Continuing
Education. He has been a reviewer for the Joural of the American DentalAssociation,
and has maintained a consultant position at the Veterans' Administration Hospital,
where he has conducted seminars on prosthodontics for residents in training. He also
has taught a course at Washtenaw Community College on dental specialties for the
dental assisistrict Dental Society, the Michigan and American Dental Associations, the
American Prosthodontic Society, Omicron Kappa Upsilon (dental honor society), the
American Association of Dental Schools, and the Federation of Prosthodontic
Organizations. As a member of the Academy of Denture Prosthetics, he chaired the
auditing and finance committee as well as the nomenclature committee. Dr. Smith
also served as vice president, president, and a member of the executive board of the
R.H. Kingery Prosthetic Study Group.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Franklin W. Smith Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
Degrees
Regent Nielsen moved, and Regent Smith seconded, a motion to confirm the
degrees conferred at the April 1988 commencement exercises. On the
recommendations of the proper authorities in each case, the Regents also approved
the following amendments to the degree lists:
Division of Physical Education
Physical Education
Bachelor of Science, December 1987
correct to show: Christina Theresa Thompson
University of Michian-Dearbom
Division of Interdisciplinary Studies
Bachelor of Art, December 23, 1987
add:  Gordon Michael Sekerak
School of Enjneerinz
Bachelor of Science m Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, December 18, 1985
add:  Linas Juozas Orentas


-311 -



June Meeting, 1988


Authorization for Expenditures in 1988-89
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved the following temporary actions for expenditures in 1988-89:
1) Payments for non-salary expenditures in fiscal 1988-89 will be made at a rate not to
exceed the monthly budget levels for 1987-88; 2) Salary expenditures in 1988-89 will
be made on the basis of salary budgets in effect for 1987-88.
Early Retirement Rules
Regent Power moved, and Regent Roach seconded, that the Regents make
permanent the current age and service requirements for retirement, and to require for
those employed after July 1, 1988 and who retire prior to age 62, that the retiree pay
the full cost of health, dental, prescription drug, life insurance, and any other plans
which might be made available until the retiree reaches age 62. The motion was
approved unanimously. In response to a question from Regent Power, Vice President
Brinkerhoff said that the University has no unfunded pension liabilities.
Higher Education Liability Mutual Insurance Company (HELM)
The Regents received information about the University's participation in the
Higher Education Liability Mutual Insurance Company (HELM). The purpose of
HELM is to provide a viable, stable market for excess liability coverage for the
participating institutions of higher education.
The meeting was then recessed to allow the participants to move to the
Michigan Union for the Public Comments session.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics
indicated: Tom Scharfen, President of the Student Government Council at the
UM-Dearborn, on student housing on the Dearborn campus, and Zachary Kittrie,
student, on student government.
The meeting reconvened at 4:40 P.M. in the Regents' Room.
Recommendations for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
The Regents approved several appointments to membership on the medical
staff.
Business School Growth Fund
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
approved the following individuals for three-year terms as the inaugural Board of
Trustees of the Michigan Business School Growth Fund: Louis G. Allen, Robert M.
Brown, Dohn L. Kalmbach, Sanford R. Robertson, Jonathan P. Rye, Joel David
Tauber, Gary T. Walther, and Bruce Zenkel. Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr., Dean of the
School of Business Administration, and Norman G. Herbert, the University's
Investment Officer, will also serve as ex officio members with voting privileges.


-312 -



June Meeting, 1988


Krause Street Parking Lot
Vice President Brinkerhoff noted that at the time of the sale of the Argus I and
Argus III Buildings, the University had agreed to lease and/or sell a total of 143
spaces in the Krause Street Parking Lot. The issue now is to establish a price for both
the sale and/or the lease of the property. Following some discussion of the issues
surrounding this decision, the Regents requested that the matter be deferred until the
July meet   and that inat  the meantime, Vice President Brinkerhoff provide the
Regents with copies of documents related to the original transactions.
William D. Revelli Band Rehearsal Hall Addition
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
approved construction of and site for an addition to the William D. Revelli Band
Rehearsal Hall. They also authorized a private fund drive, the appointment of Hobbs
and Black as architect, and the designation of the addition as the Shepherd Wing.
North Ingalls Building Renovations for the School of Nursing
Regent Baker moved, and Regent Brown seconded, the award of a contract for
renovation of the North Ingalls Building for the ingSchool of Nursing to the low bidder,
The Christman Company. The amount of the contract is $3.5 million. The motion
passed unanimously.
Rackham Building Chiller and Cooling Tower Replacement; Medical Science
II Morgue Ventilation; West Engineering Renovations and Furnishings for CAAS;
Undergraduate Library Refurbishing, Tunnel Repairs; School of Business
Administration Energy Project
The Regents unanimously approved the renovations projects outlined above.
Proposed Assignment Agreement between The University of Michigan and a Start-up
Small Business Incorporated and Owned by University Employees (BioQuant)
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the University's entering into an assignment agreement with
BioQuant, a corporation in which University employees have an ownership agreement.
The approval was made subject to clarification of some of the terminology in the terms
of the contract. This agreement falls under the State of Michigan conflict of interest
statute, because the owners, A. Rees Midgley, Willfried Schramm, and Marilyn D.
Katz-Pek, are all University employees. The following information is provided in
compliance with the statutory requirements and contains the clarifications requested
by the Regents:
1. Parties to the assignment agreement will be The University of Michigan
and BioQuant, a corporation in which Dr. Midgley, Dr. Schramm, and
Ms. Katz-Pek have ownership interests.
2. Terms of the contract include: A duration starting June 17, 1988 and
continuing for the life of the patent rights assigned, unless BioQuant
declines to prosecute or maintain patents on the Invention; the financial
terms include royalty payments to the University of 20% of licensing
revenues received by BioQuant as minimum or running royalties and


-313 -



June Meeting, 1988


payments credited against future royalties, and 10% of payments from
licensees of the Invention for payments which are not credited against
future minimum or running royalties, e.g., license issue fees or up-front
payments, and, at a minimum, the University shall receive no less than
1% of the net selling price of products sold under a license to the
Invention (the consideration for the Assignment will be paid in full if
BioQuant pays $25,000 to the University on or before February 28, 1990
or $50,000 after that date; however, if BioQuant licenses certain
identified companies with which the University made initial contact,
then consideration will be paid in full if BioQuant pays $40,000 to the
University on or before February 28, 1990 or $70,000 after that date);
the contract does not include the use of University facilities or services
of University employees.
3. Dr. Midgley's, Dr. Schramm's, and Ms. Katz-Pek's pecuniary interests
arise from their ownership of the company BioQuant. Should BioQuant
successfully commercialize the invention, BioQuant will receive
revenues from licensees and the University will receive a portion of
those revenues in the form of royalties.
Supplemental Information to the Certified Audited Financial Report of the Board in
Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of The University of Michigan for the Year Ended
June 30, 1987
The Regents received supplemental information to the certified audited
financial report of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics for the Year
Ended June 30, 1987. The supplemental information is based on the National
Collegiate Athletic Association's NCAA Financial Audit Guidelines requirements.
Church/Forest Property Option Proposal
Vice President Brinkerhoff solicited recommendations from the Regentsasa to
how the University should respond to a proposal by of John C. Stegeman for obtaining
an option on land east of the Church Street Parking Structure in Ann Arbor.
Following extensive discussion about the particular property in question, Regent
Roach suggested that an appraisal by a mutually agreeable appraiser be performed to
determine the value of the five pieces of land in question. Vice President Brinkerhoff
said that once the appraisal has been done, the item would be returned to the Board
for action. Regent Smith asked that Vice President Brinkerhoff provide the Regents
with information regarding how this relates to with the campus plan drawn up by
Johnson, Johnson & Roy.
Maintenance Projects at the President's House
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
approved the final phase of the replacement of the heating, ventilation, and
air-conditioning system, as well as installation of an automatic sprinkling system, in the
President's House. The Regents requested that the mechanical piping also be
replaced at the same time; this project will be brought to the Regents for approval at
the July meeting.


-314 -



June Meeting, 1988


Proposal to Endorse the Declaration of May 7, 1989 as Vietnam Veterans Memorial
Day
President Fleming asked the Regents if they would like to respond to a request
made at numerous public comments sessions over the past year to endorse the
declaration of May 7, 1989 as Vietnam Veterans Memorial Day. The Regents
declined to make a motion regarding this proposal.
Family Housing Community Center
University Planner Frederick Mayer presented schematic drawings for the
Family Housing Community Center, and discussed details of the proposed pan. On a
motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents voted to approve
the preliminary schematics and authorize completion of plans and solicitation of
construction bids.
Retirement of Chancellor William A. Jenkins
Regent Waters read the following retirement memoir in honor of William A.
Jenkins:
The Regents of The University of Michigan extend to William A. Jenkins their
deep appreciation and warm best wishes as he retires from his position as
Professor of Education and Chancellor of The University of Michigan-Dearbon.
Chancellor Jenkins received his BA. degree from New York University and
his MA. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Illinois. He earned a wide
reputation as a distinguished teacher and author while at the University of
Wisconsin-Milwaukee, the University of Hawaii, and Florida International
University. He came to Dearborn following major administrative positions at
Portland State University, Florida International University, and the University of
Colorado at Denver. Throughout this period, he was widely published, acquired
a national reputation in English education, and held leadership positions in a
number of national academic organizations.
For the past eight years, Chancellor Jenkins has guided the Dearborn campus
through a maturing process that has enabled it to achieve an unprecedented level
of service to students, the communities of Southeastern Michigan, and the
business organizations of the area. He has ably directed the development of
facilities and the strengthening of academic and research activities so that the
campus now stands as one of the  oe pillars among the colleges and universities
of the State.
The Regents now commend this wise and gentle man for his distinguished
service to the University, especially the Dearborn campus. They convey their
appreciation to both him and his wife Alice, and confer on him the richly
deserved designation as Chancellor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of
Education at The University of Michigan-Dearborn.
The memoir was adopted by acclamation.


-315 -



June Meeting, 1988


Retirement of James F. Brinkerhoff
Regent Brown read the following resolution in honor of the retirement of James
F. Brinkerhoff as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer:
The Regents of The University of Michigan wish to commend and thank Vice
President James F. Brinkerhoff as he leaves his official duties to begin his
furlough year on July 1, 1988.
In his latest tenure with the University he has served as Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer since 1977 and Professor of Business Administration
since 1984. In a prior association with the University from 1962-1971, he served
successively as Director of Plant Extension, Director of Business Operations, and
Associate Vice President. From 1971-76 he was Vice President for Finance and
Professor of Management at the University of Minnesota
In his various capacities, Jim Brinkerhoff has likely overseen or supervised
more in facility construction than anyone in University history. But that only
begins to tell his story. He has been relentless in his pursuit of fiscal integrity for
all units of the University. His record of community service and leadership is
unparalleled. He has been a source of strength and confidence for the Regents
and Executive Officers and all who have sought his counsel
With deep gratitude and sincerest appreciation the Regents now extend their
warm best wishes to Jim and Marge Brinkerhoff, ever mindful of the generous
way they have served the University and enriched the life of this whole
community.
The motion was adopted by acclamation.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. Travel and
accommodation expenses for the month of May 1988 totaled $3,313.83.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secreta


-316 -


